Document of
The International Development Association
Acting as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
Report No. 16256-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
April 29, 1997
Agriculture Group III
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00  =    CFAF 517
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCAM         Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture of Mali (Assemblee permanente des
chambres d'agriculture du Mali)
APROFA        Agency for the Promotion of Agricultural Trading and Processing (Agence pour la
promotion des filieres agricoles)
CAM           Mali Chamber of Agriculture (Chambre d'agriculture du Mali)
CFAF          Franc CFA
IER           Institute of Rural Economy (Institut d'economie rurale)
MDRE          Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (Ministere du developpement rural et de
1'environnement)
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
ODR           Regional Development Agency (Organisation de Developpement Rural)
ON            Office du Niger
PAVCOPA    Agricultural Processing and Marketing Promotion Pilot Project (Projet d'appui a la
valorisation et a la commercialisation des produits agricoles)
PNRA          National Agricultural Research Program (Programme national de recherche agricole)
PNVA          National Agricultural Extension Project (Projet national de vulgarisation agricole)
PPIV          Small Village Irrigation Perimeters (Petits p6rim&Lies irrigues villageois)
PSPHR         Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Program (Projet de Sante, Population et
Hydraulique Rural)
Vice-President:              Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:            flasan Tuluy, AFC15
Technical Manager:           Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTA3
Task Team Leader:            Anne Mossige, AFTA3



REPUBLIC OF MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary .........................................                                                              i
1. BACKGROUND ..............................................1
A. Economic Development .........................................I 
B. The Agricultural Sector .........................................                                                             2
C. The Irrigation Sub-Sector .........................................                                                           3
D. Experience with Past Lending  and Lessons Learned .........................................                                    7
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement .........................................                                                       8
2. THE PROJECT .............................................9
A. Project Objectives .........................................                                                                  9
B. Summary Project Description .........................................                                                         9
C. Detailed Features ..........................................                                                                   I
Support to the Implementing Agency .........................................                                              11
Technical and Managerial Services and Training .........................................                                   11
Legal Services and Technical Studies .........................................                                           13
Testing of Irrigation Equipment .........................................                                                13
Capacity building .........................................                                                              14
Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation .........................................                                        14
Monitoring of the Incentive Environment .......................................... 14
D. Project Costs and Financing .........................................                                                       15
E. Impact on Government Budget .........................................                                                       16
F. Procurement .........................................                                                                        16
G. On-Lending and Administration of Funds .........................................                                            19
H. Disbursements .........................................                                                                      19
I. Accounting, Auditing and Financial Monitoring .........................................                                     20
3. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................................                                                    21
A. Project Areas .........................................                                                                     21
B. Project Organization .........................................                                                              22
C. Project Implementation .........................................                                                            23
Cooperative Agreements .........................................                                                         24
Programming and Budgeting Procedures .........................................                                           24
D. Reporting, Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation .........................................                                    25
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................................                                                                  27
A. Benefits .........................................                                                                          27
B. Risks .............................................                                                                         27



C. Economic Analysis .............................................                                                        28
D. Project Sustainability .............................................                                                   29
5. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ............................................ 29
A. The Context ............................................                                                                29
B. Environmental Analysis ............................................                                                    30
C. Mitigation Measures ............................................                                                       30
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................. 31
TABLES
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary .....................................................                                           16
Table 2.2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangementsl7 ................................................ 17
Table 2.3: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA  Credit ....................................................     20
ANNEXES
Annex  1:   Project Costs ....................................................                                                  33
Annex 2:   Table of Monitoring and Performance Indicators .................................................... 37
Annex 3:   Procurement Plan .....................................................                                               39
Annex 4:   Environmental Analysis ....................................................                                          40
Annex 5:   TORs of New  Technical Staff ....................................................                                    43
Annex 6:   Implementation Arrangements ....................................................                                     47
Annex 7:   Beneficiaries' Cost Recovery Scheme ....................................................                             48
Annex 8:   Agricultural Credit and Rural Financial Intermediation ............................................. 51
Annex 9:  Land Tenure ....................................................                                                      53
Annex 10: Institutional Framework ....................................................                                          54
Annex 11: Project Files ....................................................                                                    57
MAP: No. IBRD 28717
The report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Mali in October 1994 and which
was led by Alassane Sow (AFTA2). The project was re-appraised in April 1996 by a Bank mission team which
was comprised of Anne Mossige (mission leader), Mohamed Ben-Senia (AFTA3) and Agadiou Dama
(AFMML). This report was prepared by Anne Mossige and processed by Alexandra Goffin. Former peer
reviewers were Ashok Subramanian (AGRPW) and Victoria Kwakwa (EAICO). Current peer reviewer is
Turto Turtiainen (AFTA3). Jean-Paul Chausse and Hasan Tuluy are the Technical Manager and the Country
Director, respectively for the operation.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Mali
Implementing Agency: Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres Agricoles (APROFA)
Beneficiaries:       Individual small-scale irrigation producers, men and women,
producer groups, and private and public sector entities, including
financial institutions involved in small-scale private irrigation, and the
Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
Poverty:             Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:       SDR 3.0 million (US$4.2 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitnent Fee:      0.5 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
On-lending Terms:    Proceeds of the Interim Trust Fund Credit would be transferred in
grant form to APROFA
Economic Rate
of Return:           The project is mainly a technical assistance project that aims at
addressing key constraints to small-scale private irrigation
development. The project's capacity building efforts in the sub-
sector are expected to induce and help farmers make productive
investments in small-scale irrigation, and lay the basis for
enhanced private sector investments in the sub-sector. Capacity
building of bank staff in appraising investment projects in small-
scale irrigation, and of farmers to prepare adequate investment
plans are expected to improve the linkages between the financial
sector and small-scale irrigation. The economic rates of return of
on-farm investments in small-scale irrigation have been calculated.
They are generally high, ranging from a low of 32 percent for new
investments in medium-size rice farms in Mopti to a high of 116
percent for the rehabilitation of family gardens.



ii
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
PROJECT COSTS
Expenditures                                        % Base   % Foreign
Categories Costs         Local   Foreign    Total      Cost    Exchange
A. Vehicles                       0.01     0.11      0.12       3          90
B. Equipment                      0.05     0.40      0.45       11         88
C. Training                       0.63     0.26      0.89       21         29
D. Consultants                    0.97     0.48      1.45       34         33
E. Incremental Operating Costs    0.51     0.04      0.55       13         8
F. PPF Refinancing                0.13     0.62      0.75       18         83
Total Baseline Costs              2.30     1.91      4.21      100         45
Price Contingencies             0.17      0.07     0.24       6          29
Physical Contingencies          0.12      0.10     0.22        5         46
Total Project Costs               2.59     2.08      4.67      111         45
FINANCING PLAN
Financing Plan (US$ milion)        Local        Foreign        Total
IDA                                      2.12          2.08         4.20
Beneficiaries                            0.47          0.00         0.47
Total                                 2.59          2.08          4.67
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year
1998          1999          2000           2001          2002
Annual          1.0           0.9            1.0           1.0           0.3
Cumulative       1.0            1.9           2.9           3.9            4.2



REPUBLIC OF MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Development
1.1   Economy. Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita
income estimated at about US$250 in 1996. Access to key social services, notably
education, basic health, potable water and sanitation is limited. Since the late 1980s,
Mali has implemented a wide range of economic and institutional reforms under its
structural adjustment program. Domestic pricing and marketing have been completely
liberalized, most trade distortions have been removed with significant reduction in the
level of protection and the streamlining and simplification of the tariff structure.
Several public enterprises have been liquidated or privatized and those remaining in the
public domain are being restructured to improve their performance. The impact of the
reform program is most noticeable in improved macroeconomic management. Fiscal
and external balance deficits have narrowed and inflation has been successfully
contained. Until 1994, growth impact had, however, been modest due largely to the
overvaluation of the CFA franc (CFAF).
1.2   Macroeconomic Performance. The devaluation of January 1994 has provided
optimism for Mali's future growth. In 1996, the economy grew by 4 percent in real
terms, the overall fiscal deficit was reduced to 8 percent of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) from 13.7 percent in 1994 and 10.5 percent n 1995, while the current-account
deficit fell from 18.2 percent in 1994 of GDP to 14.6 percent in 1996. Inflation was
reduced from 24.8 percent in 1994 to an estimated 7.0 percent in 1996, thus ensuring
durability of real exchange depreciation and the competitiveness of domestic
production. Mali's improved competitiveness had a very favorable effect on exports,
especially of cotton, gold, livestock, and fruits and vegetables. Food processing and
textile industries are also experiencing renewed growth. In 1995, real growth rates
were 19.8 percent for export crops, including cotton, fruits and vegetables; 11.9
percent for food crops, 3 percent for livestock; 10 percent for mining (gold); and 6.4
percent for manufacturing and handicrafts. Real growth is projected to average about 5
percent per annum over the medium-term allowing per capita income growth of at least
1.5 percent. The projected growth rate will have to be complemented by policies to
help the poor benefit from growth in order to achieve the Government's objective of
significantly reducing poverty. These would include policies to improve access to



2
education and health, support income-generating activities, and improve basic urban
and rural infrastructure.
B.    The Agricultural Sector
1.3   Background. The agricultural sector, including livestock, will continue to be
the driving force of the Malian economy. It contributes about 50 percent of GDP,
employs over 80 percent of the active population, and provides three quarters of export
revenues. The main crops are millet, sorghum and maize, which are grown by 90
percent of the farmers and contribute about 25 percent of GDP. These crops are grown
largely for home consumption with only 20 percent of total production marketed. The
main cash crop is cotton which provides 50 percent of export revenues. Cotton is
grown in the southern areas of Mali, and the processing and marketing is carried out by
the National Company for the Development of Textiles. Livestock, as the second most
important export earner, accounts for 30 percent of export revenues and represents a
large component of all agricultural production systems. Irrigated crops include rice,
sugarcane, vegetables, fruits, sorghum and wheat. Rice production dominates irrigation
activities. In 1996, domestic rice production covered an estimated 80 percent of
national consumption.
1.4   Impact of the 1994 Devaluation.  The devaluation of the CFAF has been
significantly beneficial to the agricultural sector and has increased the competitiveness
of agricultural products such as cotton, rice, and livestock. The devaluation has made
Malian cotton internationally competitive. Cotton production rose from 240,000 tons in
1993/94 to 405,000 tons in 1995/96, and is expected to reach 450,000 tons in 1996/97.
Mali is currently the leading cotton producer in Sub-Saharan Africa. Local rice is now
able to compete with imports from Asia, and Mali is expected to be self-sufficient in
rice in 4-5 years. Livestock exports in particular have expanded significantly within the
sub-region, replacing imports from the European Union and South America. The
devaluation has also increased the profitability of the production, processing and
marketing of fruits and vegetables such as mangoes and onions.
1.5   Main Constraints in the agricultural sector include: (a) rapid population growth,
which has exacerbated land pressures, leading to declining soil fertility; (b) natural
resource degradation and erratic rainfall which has declined the last 20 years; (c)
limited rural infrastructure for input delivery and output evacuation; (d) low input use
of 0.8 kg/ha of fertilizer versus Sub-Saharan average of 5.3 kg/ha; (e) low adult
literacy with its negative impact on overall sector productivity; (f) weak government
institutions; and (g) limited access to credit, particularly by women.
1.6   Public Spending.  In the period between 1987 to 1992, the Government's
spending on agriculture declined by about 8.5 percent in real terms. However, over the
same period, the sector consumed the bulk of expenditures on economic services - on
average about CFAF 28 billion per annum, which represented 40 percent of total
investment spending. The Government's own resources provided only about 20-25



3
percent of this financing, with the remainder coming from a combination of external
financing and domestic private and para-public sector contributions.
1.7   The Government's Strategy. The Government has launched a process of fine-
tuning and implementing its agricultural development strategy, in close collaboration
with donors, including the Bank. The key objectives of the Government's rural
development plan, developed in 1992, are to: (a) improve the effectiveness of
development activities at the local level through decentralization of public support
services; (b) reverse Mali's low input/output agriculture through improved extension
and agricultural research services; (c) provide adequate training for rural organizations,
which will be given lead roles in the identification and implementation of group
activities so that they can take on an increasing share of the activities performed in the
past by the public sector; (d) further disengage the Government from commercial
activities and to promote private sector initiative and intervention in such activities; and
(e) launch socio-economic programs for rural development as priority investments
within Mali's overall development strategy, with an emphasis on sustainable natural
resource management, rural infrastructure, ensuring competitiveness of Malian
products, capacity building, rural credit promotion, and support to vulnerable groups.
In addition, the Government issued an action plan in 1993 to refocus the functions of
the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (MDRE) on core rural
development services, and is currently formulating operational programs to implement
the action plan. Mali's education sector, supported by the IDA-financed Educational
SECAL and Vocational Education program, is addressing the problems of low literacy.
C.   The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.8   Background. Mali is the country with the largest irrigation potential in the
Sahel region. Estimates of available water resources indicate an irrigation potential of
560,000 ha, but there are technical and economic constraints to the exploitation of this
potential. At present about 216,000 ha are irrigated, of which large-scale public
schemes account for 90 percent and small-scale communal or privately owned
perimeters account for 10 percent. Rice production is dominant and covers more than
seventy percent of the irrigated land and is primarily grown in Government-financed
large scale irrigation schemes, in small-scale village schemes, and in lowland areas.
The remaining irrigated area is mainly used for production of sorghum, sugar, wheat,
fruits, and vegetables. Average annual irrigated production is around 0.6 million ton.
Irrigation in Mali can be subdivided in five production systems depending on the nature
of the water source, the level of water control, the degree of intensification of
production, and the type of crops grown. These are: (a) large scale surface irrigation
with full water control accounting for 30 percent of irrigated lands; (b) controlled flood
recession, accounting for 60 percent of irrigated lands; (c) village irrigated perimeters
accounting for 4 percent of irrigated lands; (d) small and medium-sized, privately
financed, irrigated perimeters accounting for 4 percent of irrigated lands; (e) traditional
irrigation in lowlands accounting for 2 percent of irrigated lands; and (f) "oasian"
irrigation, accounting for a marginal share of irrigated lands.



4
1.9   Large-Scale Irrigation Development in Mali was considered an operational
responsibility of Government institutions, while assistance to small-scale irrigation was
neglected. Only formal irrigation operations designed and managed by Regional
Development Agencies (ODRs), such as Office du Niger (ON), the Segou Rice Office,
and the Mopti Rice Office, benefited from the Government's technical and financial
support. However, the performance of the state-led irrigation activities has been
unsatisfactory. Budgetary resources to pay for operating and maintaining the irrigation
schemes have been difficult to secure, and farmers have not taken an active interest in
participating in the maintenance of these schemes. Although the recent changes in the
sector have caused an increase in farmers' participation in the maintenance costs, the
Government of Mali continues to be responsible for the infrastructure and maintenance
costs of the primary canals.
1.10    Small-Scale Irrigation Development.  The increase in privately developed
small-scale schemes funded from producers' own resources, or funded in combination
with commercial bank loans, over the last years, is slowing. The profitability of these
schemes, particularly for fruit and vegetable production, is negatively affected by: (a)
use of primitive technology and inefficient design and management of equipment; (b)
farmers' limited access to technical and managerial support services; (c) producers'
marginal access to credit; (d) inadequate diversification, marketing, storage and
handling of production; (e) low adult literacy; (f) limited formal land tenure
arrangements; and (g) limited number of technically skilled private consultants and
consulting firms.
1.11    Socio-economic Dimension. The main results of two comprehensive surveys,
undertaken during the project preparation, are:
- The Bamako/Koulikoro region accounts for 76 percent of private irrigation activities
in Mali.
* Average sizes of irrigated farms are small, estimated at 2.4 ha, 3.0 ha, 5.0 ha and
10.0 ha, for Bamako District, and the regions of Segou, Koulikoro and Mopti,
respectively.
* Farm sizes vary markedly within each region and district. In Bamako district, farm
sizes range from 0.25 ha to 7.0 ha. The irrigated acreage is generally less than 0.5
ha.
* The majority of farms are managed by individuals. Only 8 percent of irrigated farms
in Koulikoro are managed by groups but this ratio reaches 21 percent in the Mopti
region and 23 percent in the Segou region.
* Rainfed crops are mainly cereals (millet, sorghum, maize and rice) and irrigated
crops are dominated by vegetables (tomatoes, onions and cauliflower).
* Only 15 percent of the active labor force is literate, 20 percent of the men and 7
percent of the women.



5
* Farmers' access to technical and managerial support services is limited. About 70
percent of farmers in the Koulikoro region report having no access to such services.
* Most farmers use primitive irrigation technology. The majority of the farmers with
family vegetable gardens (average irrigated acreage of 0.5 ha) use very primitive
irrigation technologies, based on manual drawing of water with pails from shallow
wells, rivers or lakes. The use of motor pumps is limited to about 9 percent of the
farmers, primarily on small-size family farms (irrigated acreage between one to four
ha) or medium-sized commercial farms (irrigated acreage of four to ten ha). The
remainder uses a mix of the two technologies. A large portion of the existing
irrigation equipment is old, poorly maintained, and underutilized. Inadequacy of the
composition of equipment is also common.
* The level of investments on small and medium-sized farms in the surveyed areas is
impressive. In nominal terms, one survey estimated average investments per ha at
0.9 million CFAF in Bamako, 1.2 million CFAF in Koulikoro, 0.4 million CFAF in
Mopti, and 2.2 million CFAF in Segou. Financing for these investments was mostly
from the farmers' own resources: the share of farmers' equity in total investments
ranges from 63 percent in Koulikoro to 96 percent in Mopti. The share of credit in
total investments ranges from 5 percent in Mopti to 32 percent in Koulikoro.
- Access to land appears to be largely based on informal arrangements. For instance,
the share of land 'owned" or "borrowed" under customary practices ranges from 64
percent in Bamako to 88 percent in Mopti. Formal land ownership is limited, with
only 5 percent of irrigated lands in Koulikoro and 16 percent in the district of
Bamako formally titled.
1.12    The implications of the survey are that: (a) the Malians private sector is
willing to invest in small-scale irrigation; (b) adequate solutions to the technical and
managerial problems encountered by farmers exist, but public services lack the capacity
to provide some of these services (technical and managerial aspects of small-scale
irrigation), and have until now neglected the sub-sector in the areas of research and
extension; (c) because of the specificity and the diversity of private irrigation, its
promotion must be supported jointly by the public (extension and research services)
and the private sector (technical and management specialists, legal consultants, and
financial institutions). The Government should play a catalytic role. This includes the
maintenance of an incentive environment and the testing of organizational and
institutional arrangements aimed at promoting the capacity of private consultants or
firms to provide relevant technical assistance to investors in small-scale irrigation and
strengthening the capacity of the staff of financial institutions in appraising investment
projects in irrigation. The above considerations form the building blocks of the
proposed project.
1.13    The Government's Strategv in the sub-sector includes the following key
objectives: (a) focus public investments on a selective rehabilitation of existing large-
scale irrigation schemes; (b) provide effective extension and research services to
irrigation farmers; (c) promote options for greater participation of the producers in the



6
rehabilitation and maintenance efforts in public irrigation schemes; and (d) stimulate
private investments in small-scale irrigation by enhancing farmers' capacity to identify,
operate and manage cost-effective investments.
1.14    Credit. Malian farmers' access to credit to finance productive investments in
the irrigation sector has been marginal (see annex 8 for more details on agriculture
credit and rural financial intermediation). Two important obstacles remain, which
deter a large-scale development of formal credit for investment in irrigation. First, the
Malian banking system has limited expertise in appraising investment projects in
irrigation. The National Bank for Agricultural Development (BNDA) and other local
financial institutions have relied on ODRs to allocate and manage agricultural credit.
Thus, they have had few incentives to develop an in-house capacity to carry out
technical appraisals of loan requests for investments in irrigation. Second, the capacity
of farmers to prepare adequate investment proposals is weak and the results of an
extensive survey of irrigation farmers suggests a weak capacity of producers to identify
financially viable investments.
1.15    Land Tenure.  Less than 3 percent of rural land users have transformed
traditional usufruct rights into fully formalized land titles backed by title deeds, which
guarantee the use of land either by individuals or by groups for 99 years (see annex 9
for more details on Malian land legislation). Three main reasons account for this: (a)
there is poor understanding by the public at large of the different stages of formalizing
one's land rights, thus leading to high transaction costs; (b) it is perceived as being
difficult and costly to obtain the land title; and (c) the benefits from formal ownership
of land relative to traditional usufruct rights are not highly weighted by farmers, not
only because investments in the farm are often too limited to warrant the costs of
securing formal ownership, but also because the land title is often not recognized by
the local communities. However, the demand for land titles has increased among small-
scale irrigators in peri-urban areas where land shortage is a growing problem. An
increasing number of farmers who have no land title in these areas see their land being
transferred to construction sites for public or private use. In principle, women have
equal access to land as men and the Malian land legislation clearly bans discrimination
in the awarding of land on the basis of gender, Nevertheless, there are still certain
aspects regarding the implementation that result in gender bias. For example, many
female-headed households do not have the family registration information needed as a
basis for applying for land. Moreover, because the land generally belongs to the
husband's family, many women irrigators who become widows loose their user rights
to the land they cultivated. In general, women irrigation farmers are often less aware
than men of the benefits of formal land ownership, and are also less informed about the
processes involved in obtaining formalized land titles.  The proposed project's
information campaigns on land tenure arrangements would specifically target women
irrigators.
1.16   Markets. Underdeveloped marketing channels are a constraint on full
development of production potential. However, Mali's 1992 household consumption



7
survey has shown surprisingly high demand for fruits and vegetables, especially in
urban areas, and market studies show high demand on European markets for many
Malian agricultural products, such as mangoes and green beans.
1.17   Institutional Framework.  The institutional framework in the sub-sector is
characterized by: (a) public institutions that are focusing their activities on large-scale
irrigation and other sub-sectors; (b) a weak private sector with little hands-on
experience in the sub-sector; (c) weak rural producer organizations with little
operational experience; (d) NGOs and bi-lateral and multi-lateral donors which focus
mainly on the development of small-scale communal schemes, such as irrigated village
perimeters (PPIVs) or gardening activities for local women groups (see annex 10 for
more details on the institutional framework).
D.   Experience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned
1.18    Principal lessons from  Bank and other donor-supported projects in the
agricultural sector in Mali, which are fully reflected in the design of the proposed
project, are: (a) farmers are responsive to improved and profitable technologies, and
are prepared to invest their time and resources to adopt them. Prime examples are the
impressive rates of adoption of rice transplantation techniques and the use of organic
manure during the last few years;  (b) individual farmers or farmers' groups are
capable of taking, and are prepared to take, active roles in the management and the
design of rural development activities. There has been over the last few years a
substantial development of privately funded small-scale irrigation schemes, in the
absence of any technical or institutional support from the Government. In addition,
producer groups have, under the Local Community Development Project in the Mopti
region, shown increasing enthusiasm to take important initiatives for implementing the
project's activities; and (c) centrally-managed projects involved in commercial activities
tend to loose sight of farmers' constraints and priorities. Lessons from the Mopti Area
Development Project (Cr. 1597-MLI) clearly indicate that: (i) the project's centralized
management units were handicapped by heavy and inefficient administrative procedures
as well as weak managerial competence; (ii) these units were poorly placed to react to
complex and highly specific local conditions; and (iii) the local communities and
private sector entities were insufficiently involved in project planning and
implementation.
1.19   In addition, the Bank has gained experience in small-scale irrigation schemes
in the Africa region. The Mauritania Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Cr. 1571-MAU),
was rather supply driven where the irrigation sites, organization and cropping patterns
were pre-selected during appraisal and the Government took the initiative to propose
them to the farmers who had no voice in either site selection or perimeter layout.
Consequently, the farmers were insufficiently implicated in the project and considered
the various activities and investments as the property of the Mauritanian Government.



8
E.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.20   The project fits well within the ongoing Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) discussed by the Board on December 1, 1994 of promoting both agricultural
and private sector development. The CAS supports the Government's rural
development strategy and emphasizes local capacity building and putting local
stakeholders in charge by helping them develop a consensus on priority objectives on
the following key issues: (a) completion of the unfinished reform agenda of trade and
market liberalization; (b) empowerment of local communities/farmers organizations to
manage their affairs/assets and become active partners in the delivery of public
services; (c) refocusing of limited public resources on critical services and investments
(policy making, physical infrastructure, including maintenance of major irrigation
infrastructure, adaptive research, extension, and education); and (d) creation of a local
capacity for monitoring changes in the agricultural sector.
1.21    The project would address several of the key constraints in the sub-sector,
which include: (a) use of primitive technology and inefficient design and management
of equipment; (b) farmers' limited access to technical and managerial support services;
(c) producers' marginal access to credit; (d) limited formal land tenure arrangements;
and (e) limited number of technically skilled private consultants and consulting firms.
In addition, the project would, by providing support capabilities for specialized
irrigated production activities, complement the ongoing efforts of National Agricultural
Extension Project (PNVA, Cr. 2235-MLI) and National Agricultural Research Program
(PNRA, Cr. 2557-MLI), as well as the agricultural extension and research components
of the Rural Sector Support Program, which is under preparation, in identifying
producers' priority constraints, disseminating available and improved techniques, and
carrying out other on-farm experiments tailored to the needs of the irrigation
producers. The project would collaborate closely with the technical staff of these
institutions and would call upon them in their respective areas of specialization to
provide such services.
1.22   The project would also complement the newly started Agricultural Trading
and Processing Promotion Pilot Project (PAVCOPA, Cr. 2737-MLI), which aims at
addressing key sector constraints to private investments in agricultural trading and
processing, and focus primarily on capacity building and on the transfer of know-how
to private sector agents such as agricultural trading and processing enterprises and
entrepreneurs. The two projects would, with the support of Structural Adjustment
Lending and the IDA-financed Private Sector Assistance Project (Cr. 2432-MLI), form
an essential element of Mali's Private Sector program. Their joint management by a
private sector agency, the Agency for the Promotion of Agricultural Trading and
Processing (APROFA), which represents rural producers organizations, would
facilitate the transfer of information on marketing constraints and opportunities to the
producers, and the transfer of information on production constraints and opportunities
to traders and agro-processors. This would enhance the relationships between fruit and
vegetable producers, potential traders, and agro-processing agents. In addition, the cost



9
sharing of the various services between the project and the beneficiaries would both test
the appropriateness and the quality of the services as well as the producers' willingness
to pay for these.
2. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
2.1    The project's overall development objective is to improve and induce, through
capacity building activities, an expansion of investments in small-scale irrigation,
which would contribute to increased on-farm diversification of investments,
productivity, and food security. The project is conceived as a research and
development, and capacity building investment which would improve the technical
capacities of private sector institutions to provide support and financing of investments
in small-scale irrigation. The specific medium-term objective of this pilot operation is
to increase the delivery of technical and managerial services to small-scale irrigation
producers, in order to improve their capacity to: (a) identify the most cost-effective
investments in irrigation equipment and infrastructure; (b) properly operate and
maintain such equipment; (c) prepare requests for loans from financial institutions and
increase their access to credit for investments in irrigation; (d) improve the security of
their assets including land holdings; and (e) capacity building of producer groups and
individual producers in organizational, financial, and micro-enterprise management.
Furthermore, the project would, through training, strengthen: (a) financial institutions'
expertise in appraising investment projects in irrigation; and (b) the technical
performance of individual consultants and firms involved in the sub-sector. On-farm
investments, induced by the project's technical assistance efforts, are expected to lead
to the rehabilitation of about 400 ha and to the establishment of about 600 ha of new
irrigated land. The irrigation is small-scale and involves lowland (bas-fonds)
development, individual irrigation lands in urban areas, village pumping schemes, , and
rehabilitation of existing perimeters. The project would be demand-driven, and because
of its pilot nature, the project's activities would be limited to selected geographical
areas where small-scale irrigation is most developed (see para. 3.1 for more
information on the project areas). Success of the project is defined as the beneficiaries'
willingness to pay an inicreased share of the costs of the services provided under the
project, and the private sector's ability to provide these services.
B.    Summary Project Description
2.2    The project is a four-year pilot operation, which would be implemented in the
district of Bamako and in parts of the regions of Koulikoro, Segou, Sikasso and Mopti.
Planned project areas would be covered progressively, starting with the district of
Bamako and the regions of Koulikoro, Segou and Sikasso during the first two years of
implementation. If the results of a mid-term review at the end of the second year are
positive, the project would extend into parts of the Mopti region.



10
2.3    The project would mainly target irrigation farmers, men and women, with three
farm types differentiated by the size of the area equipped for irrigation: (a) family
gardens (less than 0.5 ha), (b) small size farms (between I and 5 ha), and (c) medium
to large size farms (5 ha and more), and producer groups organized around small
village irrigation perimeters (PPIVs, between 2-15 ha). Family gardens in all areas
specialize in vegetable production, while small and medium size farms specialize in
vegetable and fruit productions in the Bamako, Koulikoro, Sikasso and Segou areas,
and in rice and fruit production in the Mopti area. It is expected that family gardens
would mainly benefit from the project's training seminars, including workshops in the
use of pumps and other irrigation equipment, and from increased access to improved
extension services. Small-sized family farms and medium-sized commercial farms
would benefit more from the project's provision of technical, legal and managerial
services, including the expected improved access to credit. Producer groups are
expected to benefit from most project activities which target irrigation farmers. During
the project period, APROFA would monitor closely the extent to which various
categories of beneficiaries such as women farmers, producer groups, and small-scale
versus commercial farmers, are benefiting from the various project interventions.
Moreover, specific measures would be taken to ensure that women irrigators
(individual producers and women groups) are targeted.
2.4   The project would include seven components:
(a)   Support to the implementing agency, aimed at building institutional and
technical capacity for promoting the Government's strategy for the development of
small-scale irrigation.
(b)   Technical and managerial services and training, aimed at improving: (i) the
capacity of small-scale irrigation producers in the operation and maintenance of
irrigation equipment and identification of cost-effective irrigation investments in small-
scale irrigation; and (ii) producers and private sector entities involved in irrigation in
preparing adequate investment plans; and (iii) fiancial institutions' skills in technical
appraisal of investments in the sub-sector.
(c)   Legal services and technical studies, aimed at laying the basis for formalizing
land tenure arrangements for private irrigators, creating legally registered producer
groups, and undertaking technical studies for irrigation development.
(d)   Testing of irrigation equipment, aimed at identifying and disseminating
equipment suitable for small-scale irrigation farmers.
(e)   Capacity building, aimed at strengthening the institutional and financial
capacities of producer organizations and individual private irrigators.



11
(f)    Environmental  monitoring  and  mitigation,  aimed  at assessing  the
environmental impact of project activities and at developing the capacity to protect: (a)
local producers against water-borne diseases; and (b) irrigation holdings against soil
degradation related to irrigation activities.
(g)   Socio-economic surveys and studies, aimed at monitoring the incentives
environment for private irrigation, the project's development impact and carrying our
regular beneficiary assessments.
C.   Detailed Features
Support to the Implementing Agency
(US$ 0.5 million, 11 percent of base costs).
2.5    The project's implementing agency, APROFA, would have the primary
responsibility for the execution of all project activities and would carry out this
function under delegated contract management to deliver programs of assistance and
services to local producers, financial institutions, and private sector agents involved in
private irrigation activities. These services described in para. 2.6-2.12, would be
provided in one of three ways: (a) directly and exclusively by staff of APROFA; (b) by
staff  of  APROFA   with  the  collaboration  of  existing  institutions  of
technology/knowledge transfer such as PNVA and the Institute of Rural Economy
(IER) and/or with out-contracting of some of the services to private consultants or
consultant firms, with a preference for local consultants and firms; or (c) exclusive out-
contracting to private consultants or firms (see also para 3.6). This component would
provide funding for APROFA's additional technical staff at its headquarters in Bamako
(a senior irrigation specialist as the coordinator for the irrigation activities, and an
agro-economist in the monitoring and evaluation unit). In addition, the component
would finance all administrative staff at APROFA's new Bamako/Koulikoro regional
branch. The coordination unit would provide coordination, supervision and
backstopping to the regional branches.
Technical and Managerial Services and Training
(US$ 1.1 million, 26 percent of base costs)
2.6   Provision of Technical and Managerial Services to Producers: Under this
component, producers would be provided with technical assistance for: (i) the operation
and maintenance of their irrigation equipment; and (ii) the selection of the most cost-
effective investment plans, for financing from producers' own resources and/or through
credit from financial institutions. It is expected that the project would provide to
producers 500 managerial and 300 technical consultations in irrigation. Upon request
from producers, technicians would visit their fields to assess the nature and the design
of existing equipment, and formulate recommendations to improve the management of
these assets; furthermore, depending on individual cases, recommendations would be
provided on critically needed new investments. Moreover, the project would organize



12
around 50 technical training sessions for individual and producer groups, seven training
sessions for mechanics, and two for consulting firms. Measures would be taken to
ensure that women irrigators (individuals and women groups) are targeted and that they
participate in the various training activities. The technical assistance and training would
be provided by: (i) APROFA's technical staff in its regional branches, which include
the irrigation engineer to be financed by the project, the agro-economist and the
agronomist financed under the PAVCOPA project; and (ii) out-contracting to private
consultants and firms. Furthermore, the project would collaborate closely with PNVA
and PNRA in the project areas. The horticultural specialists hired under PNVA would
work in close collaboration with the technical staff of the proposed project and would
together with the PNRA, identify producers' priority constraints, disseminate available
and improved techniques, and carry out other on-farm experiments tailored to the needs
of the fruit and vegetables producers. In addition, APROFA's irrigation engineer
would participate in PNVA's monthly meetings in the regions to be covered by the
project, and APROFA's director would participate regularly in PNVA's regional
coordination committee meetings and in PNVA's field supervision. The project would
finance the salaries of APROFA's irrigation technicians, vehicles and equipment,
operating costs related to the provision of the services provided by APROFA's staff,
and consultant services. Salaries and operating costs related to the provision of services
by PNVA and PNRA would be financed under these two projects as these activities
would be integrated parts of their annual work-programs. The costs of the various
consultations and training sessions would be paid on a cost sharing basis between
project funds and beneficiaries' contribution (see para. 2.15 for more details, and
Annex 8 for definitions of eligibility criteria).
2.7    Assistance in credit documentation and technical appraisal of loan requests:
This includes assistance to: (i) individual producers, producer groups and private
consultants and firms involved in irrigation for appraisal of investments and for the
preparation of loan requests to be submitted to financial institutions; and (ii) staff of
financial institutions, for the technical appraisal of loan requests for investment in
irrigation. The training activities would be carried out by locally or internationally
recruited specialists through periodic short-term assignments. It is expected that during
the 4-year project period, the project would assist in preparing around 330 investment
plans, and out of these 250 requests would be submitted by APROFA to financial
institutions, and around 200 would be approved. The average loan amount is estimated
to CFAF 4.6 million; the personal capital contribution is estimated to CFAF 1.1
million or 20 percent of the total amount, and the total investment amount is expected
to be CFAF 1.15 billion. APROFA would finance the recruitment of the specialists
and their operations, including the organization of training seminars and the
establishment of the monitoring systems. The incremental costs related to the training
seminars would be paid on a cost sharing basis between project funds and beneficiaries'
contribution (see para. 2.15).



13
Legal Services and Technical Studies
(US$ 0.4 million, 10 percent of base costs)
2.8   Legal and Administrative Services: These involve the provision of services to
producers for the formalization of land tenure arrangements and the creation of legally
registered producer groups. The project would: (i) disseminate information to
producers pertaining to the necessary legal and administrative costs involved; and (ii)
upon request from producers, recruit private local lawyers and notaries under
short-term contractual assignments, to perform the necessary legal and administrative
tasks. The project is expected to assist 70 producer groups in obtaining legal status and
to provide 450 legal consultations concerning land holdings, and 160 of 200 requests
for land titles ("titre foncier") are expected to be granted. The information campaigns
on land tenure arrangements would specifically target women irrigators, and specific
training sessions would be organized for individual women farmers and women groups.
The project would finance the costs of disseminating the legal and administrative steps,
which would be carried out by APROFA's lawyer, financed under the PAVCOPA
project, as well as the legal assistant, to be financed under the proposed project. Local
lawyers' and notaries' legal fees would be paid on a cost sharing basis between the
project beneficiaries and the project (See para. 2.15).
2.9   Technical Studies: These involve technical studies for irrigation development.
They may not be needed for small schemes of less than 10 ha, but would be necessary
for larger schemes, e.g., the small village irrigation perimeters. The project would,
upon request from producers, recruit consultants from private Malian agencies and/or
local NGOs, who would carry out the studies. The studies would be paid for on a cost-
sharing basis between project funds and beneficiaries' contribution (see para. 2.15).
Testing of Irrigation Equipment
(US$ 0.7 million, 17 percent of base costs)
2.10   A wide variety of irrigation equipment, such as more energy efficient pumps
and improved irrigation techniques using the drip system, have not been tested in Mali.
The project would carry out on-farm trials in selected farms, in close collaboration with
producers. For equipment that proves to be financially attractive, the project would
prepare, for dissemination to producers, detailed documentation on the landed costs of
such equipment, where to purchase it, and how to operate and maintain it. The
component also builds local capacity through technical workshops for APROFA's staff
and staff in the National Directorate of Rural Engineering, and extension support for
the adoption of the technological innovations promoted under this project. Specialists
have been appointed on short-term assignments to formulate proposals, before project
start-up, for a list of equipment to be tested with. The testing of the equipment would
be out-contracted to consultants and firms. Dissemination of the tested technologies
would be done in collaboration with the PNVA. The project would finance the fees of
the consultants and the costs of the experiments.



14
Capacity building
(US$ 0.2 million, 4 percent of base costs)
2.11   The project would hire local consultants, who would train producer
organizations and individual producers involved in small-scale irrigation production in
their various training needs, such as organizational management, micro-enterprise
management, and financial management (e.g. accounting and bookkeeping). This
training aims at promoting the institutional and financial capacities of producer
organizations and individual private irrigators. Women groups would be specifically
targeted in the various training activities. Some 60 training seminars are expected to be
organized during the project period, with a total of 900 participants. These training
services and seminars would be financed on a cost-sharing basis between project funds
and beneficiaries (see para 2.15).
Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation
(US$ 0.2 million, 4 percent of base costs).
2.12   The environmental analysis of the project (para 5.2) has recommended that
mitigation measures be developed to prevent soil degradation and the development of
water-borne diseases. For soil degradation, the project would liaise closely with a
regional study being carried out in the Office du Niger by an international team led by
the IER. A small monitoring site would be established in the project area by the
management of the regional study, under contractual arrangements to be entered into
by the project and the IER (convention cadre APROFA-IER). With regard to water-
borne diseases, a diagnosis of irrigation-related diseases within the project areas has
been conducted by the Ministry of Health and local consultants. This provided the basis
for an action plan to implement curative and preventive measures. The project staff
would be responsible for informing the project beneficiaries of the potential health
impact and of the availability of appropriate medicine at the local health centers of the
Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Project (PSPHR). The PSPHR would train
the project beneficiaries in preventive measures by using mobile theater groups. The
project would finance the costs of the monitoring site for studying soil degradation as
well as the costs related to the mitigation and prevention measures against water-borne
diseases. The environmental mitigation action plan was discussed in detail and agreed
upon during negotiations. The project would also liaise closely with the National
Committee for the National Environmental Action Plan. In addition, project staff
would, during the project period, receive environmental training. Furthermore, the
project would finance a study on measures related to ground water use that would come
up with recommendations for Mali's National Water Policy.
Monitoring of the Incentive Environment
(US$ 0.4 million, 9 percent of base costs).
2.13   The project would recruit consultants to implement surveys and studies to
assess the incentive environment for the development of private irrigation and to



15
monitor the project's development impact. These may include the level of taxation on
imported equipment, the supply of production inputs and spare parts, market studies,
producer surveys, studies to identify actions to accommodate the specific needs of
women farmers in irrigation development, and regular beneficiary assessments to be
carried out during the project period.
D.   Project Costs and Financing
2.14    Project costs. Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties but including
price and physical contingencies and the refinancing of advances from the IDA Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), are estimated at US$4.7 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$2.1 million. Base costs are estimated at US$4.2 million in
April 1996 prices. Price contingencies represent 7 percent of base costs and assume a
domestic inflation rate of 7.0 percent in 1996, 4 percent in 1997, and 2.5 percent
thereafter', and a foreign inflation rate of 2.6 percent in 1996, 1.7 percent in 1997, 2.2
percent in 1998, 2.6 percent in 1999 and 2.8 percent in 20002. Total project costs are
given in Table 3.1. A detailed breakdown of costs by component and by year is
provided in Annex 1.
2.15    Project Financing.  Project costs would be financed by an IDA credit of
US$4.2 million equivalent from the Interim Trust Fund, which would account for about
ninety percent of total costs and all foreign costs, net of taxes and duties. IDA's
financing would cover: vehicles, equipment, local and international consultants to be
recruited under the project, and incremental operating costs. Contributions from
beneficiaries would be about US$0.5 million equivalent (10 percent of total project
costs). Beneficiary participation in financing the delivery cost of support services is a
key factor for ensuring that services provided by the project would match the needs of
small-scale irrigators, and would be essential to the sustainability of many of the
project's activities beyond the life of the project. APROFA would implement a cost
recovery scheme that is acceptable to IDA. The costs of most consultant services and
training would be paid on a cost-sharing basis between project funds and beneficiaries
contribution. Individual producers and producer groups would make an up-front
payment of 25 percent of the fees of consultants, lawyers and notaries for their
technical and legal services and a flat fee of 5,000 CFAF per day for on-farm technical
consultations provided by APROFA's technical staff. Banks and financial institutions,
individual consultants and consulting firms would pay 50 percent of incremental costs
related to training activities, artisans would pay 25 percent of these costs (see Annex 7
for more details on beneficiary contributions). The adequacy of the local funding
arrangements, and of the beneficiaries' local contribution would be monitored closely
and would be evaluated during the mid-term review. It is expected that the beneficiaries
would pay an increased share of the delivery costs of the services after the mid-term
1 D.aft Policy Framework Paper of February 1997.
2 Op 6.50, Annex B of November 1996.



16
evaluation. A proposed cost recovery scheme was prepared during the re-appraisal
mission and was reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations (see annex 7 for
details).
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary
MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION - With Devaluation in Base Costs
Components Project Cost Summary
%    % Total
(CFAF million)     (US$S000)              Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
1.Support to Implementing Agency           208      53  262   379        97  476        20      11
2. Tech. and Managerial Services and Training    416  183  599  757     332 1,089       31      26
3. Technical Studies and Legal Services    240        -  240   437         -  437         -    10
4. Testing of Imgation Equipment            68     323  391   123       587   710       83      17
5. Capacity Building                        75      20    95   137       36   172       21       4
6. Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation  49       51   100    89      93   183        51      4
7. Monitoring of the Incentive Environment  140     78  218   254       142   396        36      9
8. PPF Refinancing                          71     342  412   128       622   750       83      18
Total BASELINE COSTS                      1,267   1,050 2,317 2,304    1,909 4,213      45    100
Physical Contingencies                      65      57   122   119      103   222       46       5
Price Contingencies                         92      38   130   167       69   236       29       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                       1,424   1,145 2,569 2,590    2,081 4,671      45    111
E.     Impact on Government Budget
2.16     No counterpart funding is expected under the proposed project. During the
project period, cost recovery policies would be implemented, consequently there would
not be a direct impact on the government budget.  The project beneficiaries are
expected to provide about 10 percent of the total costs of the project. The level of their
contribution would be reviewed during the mid-term review.
F.     Procurement
2.17     The Malian procurement code was revised in 1995 in consultation with the
Bank and is generally sound. No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be
specified in credit documents for ICB, as Mali allows Bank procedures to take
precedence over any contrary local regulations or uses. ICB is not foreseen for this
project. However, if any procurement of goods were to result in a contract exceeding
US$150,000, ICB procurement would be carried out in agreement with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995).
2.18     Locally advertised National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be carried out
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, which allows that: (a) bidders are



17
given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks for contracts exceeding US$20,000
equivalent); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified; (c) no
preference margin is granted to domestic contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible
foreign firms are not precluded from participation; (e) contracts provide for security in
an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract (without
distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard
bidding documents are submitted to IDA for review and approval; and (g) award will
be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
2.19    The credit supporting the project is financed from  the Interim  Trust Fund
(ITF). In conformity with the procurement guidelines pertaining to the ITF, a list of
ineligible source countries for procurement will be established at the time of
negotiations and reflected in the legal documents. At this time, the following countries
are expected to be ineligible sources:  the Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Brunei
Darussalam, Cyprus, Israel, Oman, Qatar, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, and the
United States.
2.20    Table 3.2 below summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs, and
proposed methods of procurement.
Table 2.2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements'
(US$ million including contingencies, net of taxes and duties)
Categories of Expenditures        Procurement Method    Total Cost
ICB    NCB    Other
______ ______ Methods
1. Vehicles                                     0.1                 0.1
(0.1)              (0.1)
2. Irrigation and Office Equipment              0.4      0.1        0.5
(0.36)   (0.09)    (0.45)
4. Consultant Services, Studies                          2.3        2.3
and Audits;                                           (2.0)      (2.0)
5. Training (trainers, material and                       1.1       1.1
facilities)                                            (1.0)     (1.0)
6. Incremental Operating Costs                           0.7        0.7
(0.65)    (0.65)
Total                                         0.1      4.6        4.7
IDA financed                                 (0.1)    (4.1)      (4.2)
2.21    Goods financed by IDA  (totaling US$0.6 million) would include vehicles,
office equipment and supplies, and irrigation equipment. Procurement of goods would
be  limited  and  dispersed  over time; each  contract would  normally  be below
US$150,000. Contracts for vehicles would be through NCB and foreign firms from
eligible  countries, if interested, would  be allowed  to  participate.   Local and
1   Figures in parentheses indicate IDA financing.



18
International Shopping would be used for contracts below US$30,000 each, aggregating
to no more than US$100,000 for office equipment. With regard to procurement of
irrigation equipment to be tested under the testing of irrigation equipment component,
the contracts would generally be small and the number of potential bidders for the
experimental equipment would generally be limited. Before the launch of the project,
APROFA will call for bids through NCB to obtain a "Marche de Clientele" by which
the winner will guarantee unit prices for up to three years (as permitted by the national
procurement code) with a price adjustment clause at the end of the second year.
2.22   Consultant Services, Studies and Training financed by IDA (totaling US$2.0
million) include direct services to APROFA's operations, i.e., audits, studies, training,
and technical support to beneficiaries, contracted out by APROFA to individual
consultants or consulting firms, including NGOs. Most of these services are for short
periods. Those services would be contracted in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). They would include a number of contracts
for the implementation of the following project components: (a) technical and
managerial services and training; (b) testing of irrigation equipment; (c) technical
studies and legal services; (d) capacity building of producer groups; (e) environmental
mitigation measures; and (f) monitoring of incentives environment and studies.
APROFA's Implementation Manual specifies that APROFA would assist beneficiaries
to select:  (a) individual consultants from  a roster of consultants through the
comparison of at least three CVs; and (b) consulting firms, when necessary, through
competitive procedures acceptable to IDA. In both cases, and for each assignment,
APROFA would select individuals or invite consulting firms to bid on the basis of a
short-list drawn from the roster of consultants maintained by APROFA. This roster
would be updated twice a year to include new consultants or exclude unsatisfactory
ones. APROFA already has a series of standard Terms of Reference and a standard
Letter of Invitation, which has been reviewed by, and agreed upon with IDA.
2.23   Review by IDA. Prior review by IDA would be required for: (a) contracts for
goods exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts with consulting firms exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent; and (c) contracts with individual consultants exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent. The exception to prior review for consultant contracts would
not apply to terms of reference for such contracts, to single-source hiring, to
assignments of a critical nature (as determined by IDA), and to amendments to
contracts raising their value above the US$100,000 threshold for firms and US$50,000
for individual consultants. All training contracts would be treated as consultant's
contracts and, subject to prior review as described above. APROFA would prepare
annual training plans for its staff which would be reviewed by IDA. Prior review
would cover approximately 85 percent of contracts for goods and 20 percent of
contracts for consulting services and training financed by IDA. Documentation for
contracts under these thresholds would be maintained for ex-post reviews by auditors
and IDA supervisory staff.



19
2.24   Procurement Readiness and Procurement Arrangements. Bidding documents
for irrigation equipment, the roster of consultants, and an elaboration of the project's
first year training program would be prepared prior to credit effectiveness.
Procurement would be managed and carried out by APROFA. APROFA's
Implementation Manual was already developed during the preparation of the Agro-
processing project and APROFA staff has acquired sufficient experience and proven its
capacity in procurement during implementation of the Agro-processing Project.
Detailed procurement arrangements and a first procurement plan for key contracts are
in Annex 3. A more detailed procurement plan was discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations and integrated in the Project Implementation Plan to be completed prior to
credit effectiveness. It was agreed during negotiations to use the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for goods and civil works, and the Bank's standard contracts (for
lump sum or time-based remuneration) and a model of letter of invitation for large
consulting services. It was also agreed during negotiations that for fixed price
contracts, the invitation to bid will include price adjustment provisions in case the
award is delayed beyond the bid validity period specified in the bidding documents.
G.   On-Lending and Administration of Funds
2.25   The proceeds of the Interim Trust Fund Credit would be passed on by the
Government to APROFA in grant form. This measure would be included in the
Contractual Agreement between the Government and APROFA (para. 3.2), whereby
APROFA would be entrusted to manage the project. APROFA would need to enter
into a Project Agreement with IDA.
H.   Disbursements
2.26   The Interim Fund Credit would be disbursed, over a four-year period, on the
basis of the categories shown in Table 3.3. Disbursement from the credit would be
fully documented. The borrower would be permitted to submit withdrawal applications
on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts of less than US$100,000
equivalent for goods and consulting finns, and US$50,000 equivalent for individual
consultants.
2.27   Special Account. To expedite disbursements and ensure that funds for the
project are available when needed, the Government would open and maintain, in a
commercial bank and for the duration of the project, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, a special account to be operated by APROFA's coordinating unit.
The special account would be in CFAF and have an authorized amount of CFAF
120,000,000 (approximately US$200,000 equivalent), about four months of estimated
project expenditures. After credit effectiveness and upon application from the
borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit of CFAF 60,000,000 (approximately
US$100,000 equivalent). When project execution and disbursements so justify, the
special account would be topped to its authorized amount of CFAF 120,000,000. IDA
would replenish the account upon receipt of appropriate documentation satisfactory to



20
IDA for incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment requests would need to be
submitted monthly to IDA. Each replenishment request would be accompanied, as
necessary, by the required supporting documentation, an up-to-date Bank Statement and
a Reconciliation Statement. Applications for direct payments would apply to the
payment of contracts above US$50,000 for individual consultants, and US$100,000
equivalent for consultant firms and goods.
Table 2.3: Allocation and Disbursement of the Interim Trust Fund
Categories            Proposed IDA Allocation       % of Expenditure
(US$ million)
1. Vehicles and Equipment                0.55             100 percent of foreign and 90
Expenditure                                             percent of local expenditures
2. Consultants, Studies and Training     2.00                       1001
3. Incremental Operating Costs           0.50                       100
4. PPF Refinancing                       0.75                       100
6. Unallocated                           0.40
Total                                    4.20
I.    Accounting, Auditing and Financial Monitoring
2.28    APROFA's director has overall responsibility for project accounting, auditing
and reporting. He/she would submit to IDA: (a) semi-annual progress reports on
project implementation; (b) semi-annual financial statements on project expenditures;
and (c) annual work program and budgets for the following year. APROFA would open
a project account for the purpose of receiving fees and contributions from the
beneficiaries. This would be used for making payments for the portion of contract
amounts not financed by IDA. APROFA's existing accounting system, which is
currently operating satisfactorily, has been amended to reflect its increased mandate
from the proposed operation. Project accounts, including the Special Account, would
be audited semi-annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA as well as all
disbursements under SOEs and adherence to procurement procedures. These auditors
would audit simultaneously the project accounts of both the proposed project and the
PAVCOPA. The existing terms of reference for the auditor have been modified to
reflect the simultaneous audit of the two projects. The semi-annual audit reports for
the two projects, including the management letter and proposed internal control
improvements, would be submitted to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal
year. Assurances to this effect was obtained from the Government during negotiations.
100 percent of payment by APROFA which may represent 75-100 percent of the amounts of the
consultant contracts based on cost sharing with beneficiaries.



21
Audit contracts would be renewable for a maximum of 3 years, dependent on the
auditor's performance.
3. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Project Areas
3.1    Due to the pilot nature of the project, planned activities would be concentrated
in areas where potential for irrigation development is best. Criteria for selection of
project areas have been: (a) proximity of water resources that can be easily mobilized;
(b) scope of private investments; (c) availability or easy access to the area of support
services such as extension and research; and (d) relatively good road infrastructure and
access to markets. These criteria have led to the selection by the Government of four
geographical areas where pilot activities would be targeted. These are parts of the
region of Koulikoro including the District of Bamako, and parts of the regions of
Mopti, Segou and Sikasso.
(a)   The Koulikoro Region. Project activities in this region would cover the
"Cercles" of Kati and Koulikoro as well as the District of Bamako. Over
the last few years, there has been a spontaneous development of
privately-funded, small irrigated perimeters, mostly by individuals but
also by groups. Water mobilization is carried out by pumps or by hand.
A large portion of these perimeters is located in the outskirts of urban
areas along the Niger river. The main crops grown are fruit and
vegetables. Further south of Bamako, there are many lowlands which
can be developed for cereal production.
(b)   The Mopti Region. Project activities in this region would be limited to
the "cercles" of Mopti and Djenne where year-round accessibility to
these zones by the project staff is assured. Flood recession cultivation is
the most important form of irrigation. However, because of the negative
impact of droughts on this irrigation system, small village irrigation
schemes (PPIVs) and smaller perimeters by groups of few individuals
have become important. Crops grown are mostly rice, but potential for
diversification into fruits and vegetables is good. At present, fruit and
vegetables are imported into this region from Sikasso about 300 miles
away.
(c)   The Segou Region. Project activities in the region would cover the
"cercies" of Segou, San and Bla. Potential project beneficiaries are
farmers along the Bani river and outside the schemes of the Office du
Niger and the Segou Rice Operation. Irrigation perimeters in this region



22
include PPIVs and small schemes developed by individuals. Cropping
patterns include rice, fruit and vegetables.
(d)   The Sikasso Region. Project activities in the region would cover the
"cercles" of Sikasso, Koutiala, Bougoni and Kadiolo. Irrigation
perimeters in this region include traditional lowland (bas-fonds)
perimeters, PPIVs and small schemes developed by individuals.
Cropping patterns include rice, fruit and vegetables, particularly potatoes
for export.
B.   Project Organization
3.2   The Government of Mali has decided to delegate the responsibility for the
execution of this project to APROFA. The Government would exercise overall
supervision of the proposed project through the MDRE. Because of the joint execution
of the proposed project and PAVCOPA, amendments would be needed to its legal
agreement ("Convention") with the Government. These amendments were completed
during the re-appraisal mission and were agreed upon during negotiations. The signing
of the legal agreement is a condition of credit effectiveness. The proceeds of the ITF
Credit would be passed on to APROFA on the basis of this agreement between
APROFA and the Government.
3.3   APROFA was established in 1995 by the Mali Chamber of Agriculture (CAM)
to implement PAVCOPA. CAM was until recently a semi-public institution under the
control of MDRE. It has undergone major changes in status and structure. There are
eight Regional CAMs and these are composed of elected representatives of the rural
population. They have a broader mandate to promote private sector initiatives, to
support professional organizations and producer groups, and to represent rural sector
interests. Coordination of policy and programs, and support to the Regional CAMs are
assured by the Permanent Assembly of the Malian Regional Chambers of Agriculture
(APCAM). The Regional CAMs are still rather inexperienced institutions, but they are
gaining hands-on experience from their involvement in the implementation of
PAVCOPA, which also provides them with technical assistance and training
(workshops and study tours). In the future, they are expected to play a more significant
role in providing selected key support services to private producers and entrepreneurs
in the agricultural and agroprocessing sectors.
3.4   APROFA's consultative committee, representing private sector representatives
and governmental agencies whose activities complement or reinforce APROFA's
activities, has a strictly advisory role vis-a-vis the implementing agency.  During
negotiations, the new composition of the consultative committee was agreed upon.
PAVCOPA finances APROFA's existing staff that include: (a) in the coordinating unit
in Bamako: the agency's director, the technical coordinator for PAVCOPA's activities,
a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a lawyer, and administrative and support staff;
and (b) in each of the regional branches: an agro-economist or an agro-processing



23
specialist as the branch chief, an agronomist, and administrative and support staff. To
ensure that APROFA can effectively expand its capacity to the new broader mandate of
implementing the proposed private irrigation project, additional staff would be hired to
carry out the project's planned activities. The new staff would be financed from the
credit and would include: (a) a senior irrigation specialist as the coordinator for the
irrigation activities; a legal assistant, and an agro-economist in the coordinating unit;
(b) an irrigation engineer in each of the regional branches of Segou and Sikasso; and
(c) technical and administrative staff for both the agro-processing and the irrigation
activities in the new regional branch which would cover the "cercles" of Koulikoro and
Kati in the Koulikoro region, and the Bamako district. After the mid-term review, an
irrigation engineer would be posted in the planned regional branch in Mopti. All
APROFA's key technical staff for the private irrigation activities have been selected.
3.5    APROFA  would have full autonomy in managing the project. Besides
APROFA's Director and the coordinator for the project's irrigation activities posted in
the coordinating unit in Bamako, APROFA's existing technical and administrative staff
would be made available to assist the proposed operation. In the regional branches, the
irrigation specialists would work in close collaboration with, and would share offices
with the agricultural economists financed under PAVCOPA. The new responsibilities
of many of APROFA's existing staff will be reflected in APROFA's amended
Implementation Manual. The amendments of the Implementation Manual were agreed
upon during negotiations.
C.   Project inplementation
3.6    APROFA would, as the project's implementing agency, have the primary
responsibility for the execution of all project activities. The agency would carry out
this function under its legal agreement with the Government (para. 3.2) to deliver
programs of assistance and services to local producers, financial institutions, and
private sector agents/actors involved in private irrigation activities.  Services to
individual producers and producer groups, staff of financial institutions, and private
consultants and firms involved in irrigation would be provided:
(a) directly and exclusively by staff of APROFA, and would include: (i) overall
project management, including procurement and contract management; (ii)
recruitment of all personnel necessary for project implementation, including
consultants; (iii) coordination of project activities; (iv) coordination of activities
to be implemented by and with other institutions such as PNVA, PSPHR, and
IER; (v) maintenance of relations with Government ministries and technical
agencies, NGOs, other entities involved in small-scale irrigation promotion, and
other donor initiatives in the sub-sector; and (vi) day-to-day monitoring and
evaluation; or
(b) by APROFA in collaboration with existing public institutions, such as
PNVA and PNRA, and/or with the out-contracting to consulting firms, and



24
would include: (i) the provision of technical and managerial services and
training, (ii) the provision of legal services and technical studies, (iii) testing of
irrigation equipment; and (iv) parts of the environmental component; or
(c) exclusive out-contracting to private consultants or firms, and would include:
(i) technical studies for irrigation development, (ii) training in credit
documentation and appraisal of loan requests, (iii) environmental surveys and
studies to assess the incentive environment, and (iv) beneficiary assessments and
studies related to the mid-term and final evaluations.
3.7   APROFA has already stringent management rules and procedures, similar to
those already used in Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public pour l'Ernploi
(AGETIPE) projects in the Sahelian region. A project launch workshop would take
place when key staff have been recruited and prior to credit effectiveness.
Cooperative Agreements
3.8   APROFA has already set up umbrella cooperative agreements (Convention
Cadre) with IER, the Malian Cotton Company and its Direction Regionale Sikasso, ON
and PNVA. These agreements define the respective roles and responsibilities of the
various institutions in project execution. These formal agreements will be amended to
incorporate APROFA's new mandate. The amendments of the cooperative agreements
with Government services were agreed upon with IDA during negotiations. These
amended agreements have been signed by all concerned parties. In particular, the
project's coordinator for irrigation activities would keep close contacts with PNVA and
IER and meet with them periodically to review performance of extension agents and
availability of useful research findings and extension messages pertaining to irrigated
agriculture. Also, if need be, he/she would liaise with the MDRE/PNVA to ensure that
the most specialized and best trained extension agents are made available to work with
irrigation farmers. If their level is not adequate, they should receive additional training
or be replaced by higher-level technical staff. Moreover, once a year APROFA, IER
and PNVA would meet to review the status of their collaboration. Based on these
meetings, corrective actions would be taken. The Government services, such as PNVA
and IER, would finance the salaries and overhead costs of their staff involved in the
small-scale irrigation activities. In case specific studies would be carried out by a
public service agency, the costs of the studies would be financed by the proposed
project.
Programming and Budgeting Procedures
3.9   APROFA, through its regional branches, would prepare annual budgets for
each project component, supported by an activities program. APROFA would then
submit, a consolidated annual budget and work program for review to the consultative
committee, including APCAM. After the committee's notification and by September 30
each year, the annual budget and work plan, would be sent to MDRE. Unless objected



25
to by MDRE within thirty (30) days of receipt of the revised version, the budget and
program would be sent to IDA for non-objection. IDA would have to give its non-
objection by December 15 of each year. Each regional branch would execute its annual
program with funds transferred to its regional account by APROFA. The budget and
work program for the project's first year, and estimations for the following three years,
have been prepared and are satisfactory.
D.   Reporting, Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
3.10   Monitoring and Evaluation which are important elements of this pilot
operation would focus on: (a) the effectiveness of services provided to producers,
either by APROFA or by other institutions or individual consultants or firms, (b) the
sustainability of services after the project is closed; (c) the extent to which women
irrigators as well as other categories of beneficiaries, such as small-scale versus
commercial farmers, have benefited from the various project interventions; (d) the
extent to which the project has improved the irrigation producers' access to credit for
irrigation investments and the technical and management performance of investments in
irrigation; (e) the profitability of these investments; (f) the project's impact on irrigated
production and on income and employment generation; (g) the extent to which the
project has facilitated the formalization of land tenure arrangements and the creation of
legally registered producer groups; (h) the impact the project has had on strengthening
the institutional and organizational capacities of producer organizations; (i) the impact
the project has had on strengthening local banks' skills in appraising investment
projects in small-scale irrigation; (j) the environmental impact of project interventions,
including impact on human health; and (k) the implementation of the cost recovery
scheme.  Responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation would be with
APROFA's Director and the Monitoring and Evaluation specialist. IDA and MDRE
would be responsible for ensuring proper project supervision. In order to facilitate
monitoring activities, a detailed outline of the semi-annual reports, including specific
performance indicators which have been prepared were agreed upon during
negotiations.
3.11   The regional branches and APROFA would regularly collect and analyze data
on performance indicators (see Annex 2 for details on the proposal performance
indicators) to assess progress and to identify possible problems in relation to achieving
the project's objectives. Based on these reports, and on regular field visits by the staff
of the Monitoring and Evaluation unit, APROFA's Director would prepare a semi-
annual consolidated progress report to be submitted to MDRE, the consultative
committee, and to IDA. APCAM, IDA and MDRE would meet at least twice a year to
discuss the semi-annual progress reports and the annual evaluation reports, and to
exchange views on project progress and on APROFA's management and compliance
with its operating procedures set forth in the performance contract with the
Government and APROFA's Implementation Manual.



26
3.12   To ensure proper technical audits of project implementation by IDA and the
Government, consultants in collaboration with APROFA's Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist would carry out annual beneficiary assessments and would collect and
analyze, on an annual basis, data on the performance indicators and assess progress in
relation to project objectives and identify serious implementation problems.
3.13   At the end of Year 2 of project implementation, the Government and IDA
would undertake a joint comprehensive and detailed mid-term review of implementation
performance, with particular focus on the extent to which the project is realizing its
anticipated development impact. The review would verify the continued validity of the
design assumptions in light of implementation experience gained and make
recommendations, if needed, to fine-tune the different approaches to service delivery
and to modify some of the design features of the project. Critical elements of the
review would be to: assess the actual beneficiaries of each project activity, review the
project's cost-recovery scheme and the adequacy of the local funding arrangements,
evaluate the capacity-building of farmers and private and public sector entities involved
in the sub-sector, and evaluate measures to ensure the project's sustainability, including
increased beneficiary contributions. The mid-term review would, based on the
implementation experience, come up with recommendations for the need for a follow-
up operation. The review would also include: (a) a critical assessment of the
implementation of the irrigation equipment component, including: (i) the rate of
diffusion of the tested technologies, adoption of new technologies, number of women
beneficiaries, and number of artisans trained in the manufacture and repair of manual
irrigation technologies, and (ii) the assessment of the need for modifying the
beneficiaries financial contribution for consultancy services in accordance with paying
capacity; (b) evaluation of the implementation of the technical, managerial and legal
services, including assessment of the validity of the service delivery approach as well
as the project's impact on increasing farmers' access to credit for irrigation investments
and number of formal land titles obtained and number of legally registered producer
groups; (c) critical assessment of the environmental monitoring and mitigation
component; (d) evaluation of APROFA's performance, with special reference to
efficiency in delivering services to beneficiaries,; and (d) evaluation of the performance
of consultants and participating government agencies. Assurances were obtained from
the Government at negotiations that: (a) the mid-term review would be carried out
before December 31, 1999 and that the Government and IDA envisage to have a joint
mid-term review of PAVCOPA and the proposed project; (b) Government will submit
to IDA, not later than four weeks prior to the mid-term review, a report evaluating
project activities; and (c) within 3 months after the mid-term review, the agreed
recommendations be implemented in accordance with an agreed action plan.
3.14   APROFA would submit a project completion report no later than six months
after the closing date of the credit.



27
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
4.1    Main project benefits are expected to be: (a) strengthening of the technical,
institutional and financial capacities of producer groups and individual producers
involved in the sub-sector; (b) learning, through pilot activities, the selection,
management and delivery of the most cost-effective services and techniques to small-
scale irrigation producers; (c) developing Malian banks' expertise in appraising
investment projects in irrigation; (d) increasing the technical capacities of private and
public sector entities involved in the sub-sector; and (e) expanding and increasing the
efficiency of on-farm investments in small-scale irrigated production, in particular in
specialized fruits and vegetable production as a likely follow-up of the project's
capacity-building efforts. Success in this endeavor would pave the way for enhanced
private sector investments in small-scale irrigated production, contribute to increased
on-farm diversification of investments in agricultural development, and to food
security. Through training to be provided to the staff of financial institutions, the
project would lay the basis for a more sustainable credit financing of productive
activities in irrigation. By improving the financial performance of selected small-scale
irrigation investments, the project would trigger the interest of potential producers
whose investments in irrigation were latent. Most of the project beneficiaries would be
smallholders, women and men, who want to invest in small-scale irrigation, or who
have already invested and are seeking to improve the profitability of their investments.
The project's impact on these farmers would translate into a more efficient allocation of
resources and enhanced farm productivity and revenues. The targeted intervention
categories are Raising Productivity and Poverty Alleviation.
B.    Risks
4.2    A major risk would be the potential lack of willingness of investors, such as
traditional farmers, traders, and public and private sector employees, to invest in small-
scale irrigation, and of financial institutions to provide medium-term loans for
investments in the sub-sector. Precautions taken to minimize this risk include
provisions for: (a) capacity building of Malian bank's staff in appraising investment
projects in irrigation, and of farmers to prepare adequate investment plans; and (b)
strengthening of micro-financial institutions that target rural smallholders under the
proposed Mali Financial Sector Program. Another risk would be poor management,
inadequate monitoring of project activities, or misuse by APROFA of its autonomy in
overseeing project implementation could result in the project failing to provide relevant
services to farmers. This risk would be minimized by the provision of: (a) stringent
management rules and procedures; (b) strong monitoring of management performance,
intensive technical supervision, and regular evaluation of beneficiaries' response; and
(c) gradual implementation of the project and a timely mid-term review that would
allow for corrective changes to project design and implementation procedures. The risk
of a potential reversal by the Government of its current private sector support policies



28
is rather slim in view of the growing constituencies for these policies in Mali, and of
the Bank/IMF dialogue with Government, supported by an already completed PFP and
expected to receive further support under the CAS.
C.   Economic Analysis
4.3   The project is a technical assistance operation that aims at addressing key
constraints to the development of small-scale private irrigation. The project's capacity-
building efforts in the sub-sector are expected to induce and help farmers make
productive investments in irrigation as well as improvements in irrigation and crop
production techniques. Capacity building of Malian bank's staff in appraising
investment projects in small-scale irrigation, and of farmers to prepare adequate
investment plans are expected to improve links between the financial sector and small-
scale irrigation.
4.4    On-farm investments, induced by the project's technical assistance efforts, are
expected to lead to the rehabilitation of about 400 ha and to the establishment of about
600 ha of new irrigated land. Increases in production of locally consumed vegetables
and fruit (tomatoes, onions, bananas, etc.), can easily be absorbed by metropolitan
markets within each project area. Potatoes, green beans (sweet peas in Sikasso) can
either be exported or sold on local markets, and the added rice output, small compared
to national production and consumption, can also be easily absorbed through local
markets and household consumption.
4.5   The likely follow-up investments from the project interventions would also have
beneficial effects on Mali's trade balance with gain in the sixth year after the project is
closed of 890 million CFAF, thanks to increased exports of about 790 million CFAF,
import substitution for 98 million CFAF, and despite increased foreign exchange
expenditures on imports of equipment and modern inputs of about 360 million CFAF.
The project interventions and its induced investments in the sub-sector would also lead
to increases in rural employment in the order of 600,000 person-days, equivalent to
about 2,400 permanent jobs. Three quarters of these gains would benefit family labor,
and the rest would benefit salaried workers. There would also be indirect employment
effects induced through the marketing of produce, farm equipment and inputs, and
through an increased demand for other services, construction, financial services, repair
and maintenance, etc.
4.6   Economic rates of returns from on-farm  investments and improvements in
cropping patterns and practices have been calculated, and are generally high ranging
from a low of 32 percent for new investments in medium-sized rice farms in Mopti to a
high of 116 percent for the rehabilitation of family vegetable gardens. For the same
type of farm, economic rates of return are higher for rehabilitation as compared to new
investments, for vegetable farms as compared to rice farms, and for smaller farms as
compared to larger farms. Cash flows and net present values also improve substantially
and follow the same pattern. While only limited information is available on family



29
incomes of potential beneficiaries, indications are that the incomes of most small
farmers (< 1,5 ha) and of owners of family gardens are below or slightly above the
absolute poverty level of 100,000 CFAF per capita. Project intervention would induce
substantial increases in their incomes and put practically all of them well above the
poverty level. Per capita net income increases from project-induced activities would be
around 100,000 CFAF for family garden owners, and would range from 165,000 to
near 600,000 CFAF for small farm owners, and from 300,000 to more than to 540,000
CFAF for medium farm owners. These income increases constitute more than a 100
percent increase for all farm types.
D.   Project Sustainability
4.7   The project is conceived as a pilot research and development and capacity-
building investment which should both lead to an increased capacity of private and
public sector entities to manage and deliver the most cost-effective services and
techniques essential to small-scale irrigation development as well as increased private
sector investments in the sub-sector. Beneficiaries contribution would be gradually
increased after the mid-term review in order to ensure long-term sustainability. A
follow-up operation may be necessary to consolidate the experiences made under the
project and to increase its geographic scope.
5. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A.   The Context
5.1   The anticipated water withdrawals under the project are small in relation to the
available water supply, and the project's individual perimeters are small and scattered
over twelve widely separated areas. The project would concentrate its efforts on five
areas in central and southeast Mali: lands along the Niger and Bani rivers near
Bamako, Koulikoro, Mopti and San; in an area located near Segou outside the
established public irrigation scheme of ON; and in four "cercles" of the Sikasso
region. The project would mainly tap water from the Niger and Bani rivers, and far
less from underground sources, which are small and in bed-rock. The approximately
600 ha of new land which are expected to be irrigated as a result of the project would
use about 500 I/s, which amounts to less than 0.5% of river low flows. In the part of
the Niger basin that belongs to Mali, FAO has estimated the irrigation potential at
about 560,000 ha, of which about 78,000 ha are currently irrigated. Thus, water
scarcity is not a major problem for irrigation development in Mali. Underground water
would be mostly used in the Bamako/Koulikoro and Sikasso regions and an assessment
of the aquifers is currently being undertaken with PPF-financing. This assessment will
give an upper limit of the potential water that might be tapped.



30
B.    Environmental Analysis
5.2    A  category B environmental analysis (EA) was carried out by a Mali
enviromnental team, assisted by FAO/CP. The Summary of the EA is presented in
Annex 4. The EA puts considerable emphasis on determining the reactions of the
affected population to irrigation activities. Extensive consultations were organized with
NGOs in project areas. The positive and negative impacts were identified per project
intervention area, and mitigation measures were defined accordingly.  All issues
relevant to irrigation in central and south-east Mali were identified, and guidelines and
criteria were provided for subsequent environmental assessment of specific perimeters.
The analysis determined that, given the availability of land and water and a strong
interest from the local population, the positive impacts of irrigation far outweighs the
negative impacts. Positive impacts are in terms of increased food production and food
security, diversification of production and diets, development of fisheries, a lessening
of pressure on non-irrigated lands and decrease of the rural exodus. The negative
impacts do exist and should be taken into consideration in development of specific
irrigated perimeters. The two most common potential negative impacts in the project's
intervention areas are the degradation of the vegetation cover and waterborne diseases.
Other negative impacts differ by type of irrigation scheme. Degradation of the
vegetation is a threat in village perimeters and in peri-urban locations. In addition, soil
degradation due to salinization was found to be potentially dangerous in most arid parts
of Mali including the areas around the ON Scheme. Waterborne diseases, in particular
malaria and bilharzia, are particularly important outside existing schemes such as the
Office du Niger where no preventive measures are taken. Since the activities to be
financed under this project would be limited to training, technical assistance and on-
station demonstration of tested improved technologies, the project would have little
adverse effect on water quality or the biological characteristics of the fauna and flora.
Because the project does not include a crop production component, and the pesticide
use will be negligible, there would be no need for a special policy regarding the use of
pesticides in vegetable gardens and orchards. Moreover, the application of pesticides
and fertilizers is very low in fruit and vegetable production in Mali, and represents
only a minimal threat to the environment. Furthermore, the EA made a comprehensive
inventory of all environmental problems currently encountered by other organizations
in the project areas and of the mitigation measures, if any, in use by these
organizations. This aggregate experience forms the basis for the project's
environmental mitigation plan.
C.   Mitigation Measures
5.3   The mitigation plan includes technical, institutional, and legislative measures.
The technical measures comprise conservation techniques to prevent and control soil
degradation and salinization, reforestation efforts, and a strong emphasis on
information campaigns and curative measures to make the population more aware of
the disease risks involved in irrigation. Mitigation measures have been formulated by



31
the PSPHR and by the IER respectively against water-borne diseases and soil
degradation.
5.4   With regard to health preventive measures, the project staff would be
responsible for informing the project beneficiaries of the potential health impact and of
the availability of appropriate medicine at the local health centers of the PSPHR, and
PSPHR would be involved in training, by using mobile theater groups, the project
beneficiaries in preventive measures.
5.5   For land degradation, the project would liaise closely with a regional study
being carried out in the ON area where a monitoring site has been established to
measure the level of soil degradation. A similar, but smaller monitoring site would be
established in the project area by the management of the regional study, under
contractual arrangements to be entered between the project and IER (convention cadre
APROFA-IER).
5.6   On the basis of the environmental monitoring indicators elaborated under the
EA in Annex 4, APROFA's monitoring and evaluation unit would carry out the
environmental monitoring of project interventions. APROFA would also liaise closely
with the National Committee for the NEAP, and APROFA's staff would receive
training in environmental mitigation measures. The project would also finance a study
on legislative measures related to ground water use that would come up with
recommendations for Mali's National Water Policy ("Code de 1'Eau"). Furthermore,
the Government has informed the Niger Basin Authority about the project in
compliance with the terms of the international agreements in force among the riparian
countries. The project's environmental mitigation action plan was discussed in detail
and agreed upon during negotiations. The Government has formally adopted the plan.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   Agreements were reached during negotiations on the following:
(a)  a cost-recovery scheme, defining and elaborating the beneficiaries financial
contribution of the delivery cost of support services provided by the project,
including the respective expenditure categories and the disbursement modalities
(para. 2.15);
(b)  all procurement under the IDA credit be made in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement and Use of Consultants (para. 2.24);
(c)  Project Accounts, including the Special Account, be audited semi-annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA as well as all disbursements under SOEs
(para. 2.28);



32
(d)  Government would submit to IDA, within four months of the end of each fiscal
year, the semi-annual audit reports, including a separate opinion of the auditors
and proposed internal control improvements (para. 2.28);
(e)  the amendment of the Implementation Manual, the Legal Agreement between
APROFA and Government, and the new composition of the consultative
committee (para. 3.2, 3.4, and 3.5);
(f)  job-descriptions for all professional personnel to be hired under the project (para.
3.5);
(g)  the amendments to APROFA's cooperative agreements ("Convention Cadre")
with Government services (para. 3.8);
(h)  specific performance indicators and the outline of the bi-annual reports on
progress of project implementation (para 3.10);
(i)  the mid-term review of the project would be undertaken not later than December
31, 1999; not later than four weeks prior to such review, Government would
submit to IDA a report evaluating progress under the project; four weeks after
the mid-term review, implementation of the recommendations in accordance with
an agreed action plan (para. 3.13); and
(j)  the project's environmental mitigation action plan (para. 5.6).
6.2   Condition of Credit Effectiveness would be: the signature of APROFA's
amended legal agreement with the Government ("Convention") (para. 3.2).
6.3   Recommendation. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.2 million equivalent to the Government of
Mali on standard terms, with 40 years maturity.



MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(CFAF '000)                           (USS)                 Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs
1. Project Management Unit                            208,367.4    53,264.3   261,631.7   378,849.9    96,844.2   475,694.0       20      11
2. Technical and Managerial Services and Training      416,329.4   182,833.0   599,162.3   756,962.5   332,423.6  1,089,386.1     31      26
3. Experimentation of Irrigation Equipment             67,757.8   322,915.0   390,672.8   123,196.0   587,118.2   710,314.2       83      17
4. Technical Studies and Legal Services                240,350.0          -   240,350.0   437,000.0           -   437,000.0        -      10
5. Capacity Building of Producer Groups                 75,240.0    19,666.0    94,906.0   136,800.0    35,756.3   172,556.3      21       4      w
6. Environmental Mitigation Measures                    49,158.0    51,368.1    100,526.1    89,378.2    93,396.5   182,774.7     51       4
7. Monitoring of Incentive Environment                 139,507.5    78,117.6   217,625.1   253,650.0   142,031.9   395,681.9      36       9
8. PPF Refinancing                                      70,560.0   341,957.4   412,517.4   128,290.9   621,740.8   750,031.7      83      18
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    1,267,270.1  1,050,121.3  2,317,391.4  2,304,127.5  1,909,311.5  4,213,439.0  45    100
Physical Contingencies                                  65,422.5    56,571.6   121,994.1    118,950.1    102,857.4   221,807.5    46       5
Price Contingencies                                     91,724.9    37,836.8   129,561.7   166,772.5    68,794.1    235,566.6     29       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     1,424,417.6  1,144,529.6  2,568,947.2  2,589,850.1  2,080,963.0  4,670,813.1  45   111
>
XQ D
X XD
I.-X
0
Js



MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(CFAF '000)                          (US$)                 Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles                                 6,366.2    59,902.9    66,269.1    11,574.9   108,914.4   120,489.2     90       3
B. Computer/Office Equipment                5,470.6     8,579.2    14,049.8     9,946.5    15,598.6    25,545.1     61       1
C. Irrigation Equipment                    22,613.8   212,785.7   235,399.5    41,116.0   386,883.0   427,999.0     90      10
D. Other Equipment (fumiture, ...)-                          -           -           -           -           -        -       -
E. Consultant Services and Studies        534,978.5   261,029.0   796,007.5   972,688.2   474,598.3  1,447,286.4    33      34
F. Training                               346,399.7   141,165.5   487,565.3   629,817.7   256,664.6   886,482.3     29      21
G. PPF                                     70,560.0   341,957.4   412,517.4   128,290.9   621,740.8   750,031.7     83       18
Total Investment Costs                      986,388.8  1,025,419.8  2,011,808.6  1,793,434.1  1,864,399.7  3,657,833.8  51    87
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                              199,386.0          -   199,386.0   362,520.0           -   362,520.0        -      9
B. Vehicles O&M                             9,682.9    22,756.8    32,439.7    17,605.4    41,375.9    58,981.3     70       1
C. Office Equipment Maintenance                        -           -           -                 -           -        -       -
D. Frais de Mission                        70,224.0          -    70,224.0   127,680.0           -   127,680.0        -      3
E. Utilities and Building Maintenance       1,045.0     1,092.6     2,137.6     1,900.0     1,986.5    3,886.5      51        -
F. Office Supplies                            543.4      852.2      1,395.6      988.0     1,549.4     2,537.4      61
G. Office Space Rental                 _     _     _    _     _     _    _     __          _     __          _     _     _
Total Recurrent Costs                       280,881.3    24,701.5   305,582.9   510,693.4    44,911.8   555,605.2      8      13
Total BASELINE COSTS                       1,267,270.1  1,050,121.3  2,317,391.4  2,304,127.5  1,909,311.5  4,213,439.0  45   100
Physical Contingencies                     65,422.5    56,571.6   121,994.1   118,950.1   102,857.4   221,807.5     46       5
Price Contingencies                        91,724.9    37,836.8   129,561.7   166,772.5    68,794.1   235,566.6     29       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,424,417.6  1,144,529.6  2,568,947.2  2,589,850.1  2,080,963.0  4,670,813.1  45   111
e :t
0 0
(D m
,



MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS)
Technkal
and                      Technical   Capacity
Project    Manageral  Experimentation  Studis and  Building of  Environmnental  Monitoring
Managenent Services and    of Irrigation   Legal     Producer    Mitigation    of Incentive   PPF
Unit      Training      Equlpmnent    Services     Groups      Measures    Environment Refinancing    Total
I. Investnent Costs
A. Vehicles                                 45,216.7     90,433.3                                                                                 135,650.0
B. ComputeriOffice Equipment                 3,971.6    24,904.8              -           -           -             -            -           -    28,876.4
C. Irrigation Equipment                           -            -       498,490.5          -           -             -            -           -   498,490.5
D. Other Equipment (fumiture, ...)
E. Consuitant Services and Studies          61,265.1    155,839.1      315,077.7   443,418.7          -      202,443.9    434,806.0          -  1,612,850.7
F. Training                                       -    841,261.0              -           -    203,752.1                         -           -  1,045,013.1
G. PPF                                            -            -              -           -           -             -            -    750,031.7   750,031.7
Total lnvestmnt Costs                        110,453.3   1,112,438.3     813,568.2   443,418.7   203,752.1     202,443.9    434,806.0   750,031.7  4,070,912.3 
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                              U'
A. Personnel                               341,573.6                          -    49,147.3           -             -            -           -   390,720.9
B. Vehides O&M                              20,317.4     43,923.1             -                                                                     4-  -  -  -    64240.5
C. Office Equiment Maintenance
D. Frais de Mission                         39,317.8     98,294.6                   -           -                   -            -           -   137,612.4
E. Utlities and Building Maintenance         4,354.5           -              -           -           -             -            -                  4,354.5
F. Office Supplies                           1,829.3      1,143.3                   -           -            -            -            -            2972.5
G. Office Space Rental                 _______
Total Recurrent Costs                        407,392.5    143,361.0             -    49,147.3           -             -            -           -   599,900.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                          517,845.9   1,255,799.3      813,568.2   492,566.0   203,752.1    202,443.9    434,806.0   750,031.7  4,670,813.1
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                           108,077.3    380,929.1      671,933.9          -    41,566.0      102,547.8    154,168.0   621,740.8  2,080,963.0
(D (D
0
w_



MALI
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$)
Totals Including Contingencies
2001        2002        2003        2004        Total
1. Project Management Unit                             161,935.6   115,719.2   118,596.6   121,594.4   517,845.9
2. Technical and Managerial Services and Training      486,924.0   238,173.9   261,470.7   269,230.7  1,255,799.3
3. Experimentation of Irrigation Equipment             196,515.8   200,622.4   205,475.9   210,954.2   813,568.2
4. Technical Studies and Legal Services                111,051.5   119,943.0   131,650.9   129,920.7   492,566.0
5. Capacity Building of Producer Groups                 49,036.6    50,303.5    51,551.0    52,860.9   203,752.1
6. Environmental Mitigation Measures                    96,613.0    34,409.8    35,252.3    36,168.8   202,443.9
7. Monitoring of Incentive Environment                 303,228.7    42,780.3    43,837.1    44,959.9   434,806.0           a
8. PPF Refinancing                                     750,031.7          -           -           -   750,031.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     2,155,336.9   801,952.0   847,834.5   865,689.6  4,670,813.1
(D (D
0
4>..



37                                        Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicators                  Responsible        Year    Year    Year    Year    Total
1        2        3        4
1) Number of consultations to
irrigators
Legal Consultations                APROFA/ Lawyers        100       100      125      125      450
Managerial Consultations           APROFA/                100       100      150      150      500
Consultants
Technical Consultations            APROFA/Consultants   75         75       75        75       300
Feasibility Studies                APROFA/Consultants   75          100      125      100      400
2)Legal Assistance
Applications for land titles       APROFA/Technical       50       50       50        50       200
(titre provisoire/foncier)         and Contractual
Services
Titles issued                                             40       40       40        40       160
Constitution of legally recognized  APROFA/Lawyers        10        15      20        25       70
producer groups
3) Number of Loans Processed
Loan applications                  APROFA/Consultants   70          100     80        80       330
Applications presented to financial  APROFA/Consultants   50       75       60        60       245
institutions
Loans approved by financial        Financial Institutions    40    60        50       50       200
institutions
Total loan amount (million FCFA)   Financial Institutions  100      150      125      125      500
Personal Contribution              Irrigation Producers   25       37.5     31.25    31.25    125
(million FCFA)
Loan recovery                      Financial Institutions
- Estimated                                           100%     100%     100%      100%     100%
- Realized                                           N/A.    N/A.    N/A.    N/A.   95/98%
4) Training                                                                   _  __
A. Financial and Organizational    APROFA/Consultants
Management
Sessions                                                  155       1        15       15       60
Days                                                      60       60       60        60       240
Participants (producers)                                  225      225      225       225      900
B. Training of staff offinancial   APROFA/Consultants
institutions
Sessions                                                  4        4        8         8        24
Days                                                      15       15       30        30       90
Participants (staff of financial                          6                  12                18
institutions)                                                             I         I



38                                       Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
C. Operations and Maintenance
Training targeting irrigation
producers
Sessions                          APROFA/                15        15       10       10       50
Consultants
Days                                                     60        60       40       40       200
Participants                                             225       225      150      150      750
Mechanics                          APROFA/
Consultants
Sessions                                                 2         3        1        1        7
Days                                                     1         2        1        1        5
Participants                                             20        36       16       16       88
Staff of consultingfirms          APROFA/
Consultants
Sessions                                                 1                  I                 2
Days                                                     20                 20                40
Participants                                             15                 15                30
5) Tests - Irrigation Equipment   APROFA/IER/
Consultants
Mechanical and Wind                                      4         1                          5
Water distribution systems
- Sprinkler System                                    study     3        2                 5
- Drip System                                         study     3        2                 5
Area with Adopted Technology (ha)    APROFA/                                50       50       100
Consultants /
IER/PNVA
6) Area Affected by Project (ha)
- Developed                     APROFA                 150      150      150      150      600
- Rehabilitated                 APROFA                 100      100      100      100      400
Total                            APROFA                 250      250      250       250      1000
Total, cultivated                APROFA                 250      500       750      1000     1000
7) Investments                    irrigation producers
New (millions FCFA)- 2 millions                          300       300      300      300      1.200
FCFA/ha
Rehabilitated (millions FCFA) -l                         100       100      100      100      400
million FCFA/ha
Total                                                    400      400       400      400      1.600
8) Cropping intensity(%)
Gardening/other crops           PNVA/CMDT/ON          200%      200%     200%     200%    200%
Treefa|  ing                    PNVA/CMDT/ON           100%     100%     100%     100%     100%
Profitability of investments      DNA/PNVA/              n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
CMDT/ON



39                                           Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
DETAILED PROCUREMENT PLANI
Categories of        Procurement Method        PPF    Year 1   Year 2    Year 3   Year 4  Total
Expenditure                                                                                   Cost
ICB     NCB   Others
1. Vehicles                        0.1                        0.1                                   0.1
(0.1)                      (0.1)                                 (0.1)
2. Irrigation and Office           0.4      0.1              0.12       0.12      0.12     0.12    0.5
Equipment                        (0.36)   (0.09)             (0.11     (0.11)    (0.11)   (0.11)  (0.45)
3. Consultant services,                     2.3     0.7      0.35      0.35       0.45     0.45     2.3
studies, and audits                      (2.0)    (0.7)    (0.30)    (0.30)    (0.35)   (0.35)   (2.0)
4. Training (trainers,                      1.1              0.25       0.20      0.30     0.30     1.1
material and facilities                  (1.0)             (0.25)    (0.15)    (0.25)   (0.25)   (1.0)
5. Incremental                              0.7     0.1      0.10       0.10      0.20     0.20     0.7
Operating Costs                           (0.65)   (0.1)   (0.09)    (0.07)    (0.18)   (0.18)  (0.65)
Total                              0.1      4.6      0.8     0.92       0.82      1.07     1.07    4.67
IDA rmanced                       (0.1)    (4.1)    (0.8)    (0.85)    (0.75)    (0.89)   (0.89)   (4.2)
Figures in parendteses indicate IDA financing



40                                     Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Project Description
1.           The Government of Mali wishes to develop the country's agricultural sector through the
promotion of private irrigation. The project effort designed to implement this concept is guided by two
Ministries: the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment and the Ministry for Promotion of
Private Initiative. In 1991, a special governmental group "Comite de Pilotage' was set up to develop
specific project proposals and prepare the project.
2.           The project objective is to improve and induce, through capacity building activities, an
expansion of investments in small-scale irrigation The project is designed as a pilot effort for a four-year
period and will address the main problems that are currently facing the private irrigation sector. These
are: (1) technical, financial, and environmental feasibility analysis of new projects, (2) training of
irrigation farmers, (3) testing of new irrigation equipment, (4) support in formulation and application of
environmental regulations. The project would be implemented by a private agency (Agence pour la
Promotion des FiliWres Agricoles, APROFA).
3.           The project will concentrate its efforts on five areas in central Mali: lands along the Niger
and Bani rivers near Bamako, Mopti, and San, and in an area located near Segou outside the established
irrigation schemes of the Office de Niger (ON), and in four "cercies" of the Sikasso region. The
irrigation is small-scale and involves floodplain (bas-fonds) development, individual irrigated lands in
urban areas, village pumpschemes, village perimeters using ON waters, and rehabilitation of existing
perimeters.
Backeround of Environmental Analysis
4.            Although Mali has no legal requirement at this time for formal environmental assessment,
the EA reflects the concern of the Government for sustained use of the nation's resources, which
constitute the basis of the national economy. The Environmental Analysis of the proposed Pilot Private
Irrigation Promotion Project was therefore conducted to comply directly with the Bank's EA directives, in
particularOD 4.01, and its Annex C: Environmental Mitigation Plan.
5.           Two important efforts are currently underway in Mali to improve management of the
country's resource base. These are a desertification control program, "Programme National de Lutte
contre La D&sertilcatiod', and a World Bank supported, community-based natural resource management
program, "Programme de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles". These program's efforts are directed to
dry-land farming and grazing. This circumstance makes the present project with its focus on irrigation
even more meaningful, as it complements ongoing project efforts.
6.           The environmental analysis of the project is a Category B analysis. The anticipated water
withdrawals by the project are small in relation to the available water supply and individual perimeters
(private farmers taking advantage of the facilities to be provided under the project) are small and scattered
over a wide area. The negative, aggregate environmental impact is expected to be minor to moderate.



41                                     Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
7.            The environmental analysis was carried out by a Mali environmental team, supported by
some international expertise. Scoping sessions were organized to consult with Government agencies,
those concerned with irrigation and those never before consulted on irrigation issues, such as Public
Health agencies. The analysis has put considerable emphasis on determining the reactions of the affected
population to increased irrigation, in particular of the women involved. Extensive consultations were
organized with NGO' s in the project areas.
8.            At this stage the precise location of perimeters that will benefit from project intervention
has not been determined, although four broad areas in central Mali were selected. As a result the
Environmental Analysis has adopted a Regional approach, in which the positive and negative impacts are
identified in a broad sense, i.e. per project area, and in which the mitigation measures are accordingly
relatively broad. This process identifies all issues relevant to irrigation in central Mali and provides
guidelines and criteria for subsequent environmental assessment of each perimeter, and facilitates such
detailed subsequent assessment.
Mitigation Plans
9.            The Analysis has determined that, given the availability of land and water and a strong
interest from the local population, the positive impacts of irrigation far outweigh the negative imnpacts.
Positive impacts are in terms of increased food production and food security, diversification of production
and diets, development of fisheries, a lessening of pressure on non-irrigated lands, and decrease of the
rural exodus. Women have expressed considerable and unanimous interest in irrigation, especially of
vegetables and other market crops; they value the potential financial benefits and appreciate the
improvements in nutrition.
10.          Negative impacts of irrigation do exist and should be taken into consideration in
development of specific irrigated perimeters. The negative impacts differ by kind of irrigation scheme.
Soil degradation (salinization, erosion) was found to be important in bas fonds development as well as
around the Office de Niger Scheme, degradation of the vegetation is more of a threat in village perimeters
and in peri-urban locations. Waterborne diseases are important outside existing schemes such as the
Office de Niger where no preventive measures are taken now. The two most common potential impacts
in the four intervention areas of the project are waterborne diseases and degradation of the vegetation
cover.
11.          The Environmental Analysis has made a comprehensive inventory of all environmental
problems encountered by others in the project area, as recorded by NGO's and some donor organizations.
Also, the mitigative measures, if any, in use by these organizations were summarized. This experience
was evaluated, used, and integrated in the present analysis.
12.          Mitigative measures include technical, institutional, and legislative measures.  The
technical measures include standard techniques to prevent or control erosion and salinization, the
increased development of ground water resources for village drinking water supplies, afforestation efforts
combined with irrigation, and a strong emphasis on information campaigns to make the population more
aware of the disease risks involved in irrigation. For each of the eight categories of mitigative measures,
and for many measures itself, the specific organizations responsible for implementationare noted. In



42                                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
many cases this is the implementing agency, APROFA, itself, together with specific government agencies
or the private consulting industry.
13.          A key concem in irrigation development is the almost certain increase in waterborne
diseases. There is at present no institutional link between irrigation and preventive public health. Health
authorities are usually notified when there is a problem, at the point when disease problems are rampant in
irrigation areas, and are then obliged to take ad hoc, expensive measures. There is a clear need to involve
Health authorities in the early planning stages of irrigation to ensure that appropriate preventive measures
can be taken in a timely manner. It is recommended that the World Bank supported "Health, Population,
and Rural Water Supply Project" be reoriented somewhat to include specific measures for preventive
medical care in irrigated perimeters.
14.          In the Analysis's monitoring plan, a full range of environmental indicators was defined
for irrigation development in central Mali. These serve at the same tirne as checklists for design of
specific environmental monitoring programs for irrigated perimeters selected under the project. The list
focuses attention on continued monitoring of and consultation with the population during and after the
construction/rehabilitationof irrigation schemes.



43                                       Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
Projet Pilote de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (PPIP)
Fiche de Poste pour le Coordinateur - Irrigation Privie
Intitule du Poste:    Coordinateur
Rattachement:         Directeur General
Taches:
1.     Suivre et coordonner des activites techniques relatifs a l'irrigation privee dans les antennes
regionales;
2.     Assister le Directeur Generale de l'APROFA dans la definition des Termes de Reference des contrats des
prestations des services et des sous-traitance avec des prestataires de services externes (bureaux d'etudes,
consultants, entreprises privees, ONGs);
3.     Gerer et organiser la formation des irrigants dans la gestion/maintenance des equipements et la gestion
financi6re et organisationnelle des groupements des irrigants avec la collaboration des Specialistes de
l'Irrigation dans les antennes et de l'agro-economiste de l'unite de coordination;
4.     Suivre des dossiers bancaires relatifs a l'irrigation privee avec la collaboration de l'agro-economiste (de
l'unite de coordination);
5.     Suivre les mesures de corrections des effets ndfastes lies a l'irrigation privee (par exemple maladies lie a
la transmission hydrique, degradation, utilisation des pesticides dans l'irrigation)
6.     Suivre la mise en oeuvre des tests des equipements de l'irrigation privee;
7.     Appuyer les Specialistes de l'Irrigation dans les antennes dans la programmation et supervision de
l'assistance juridique et administrative aux producteurs en ce qui concerne les questions fonciers et de
constitutions de groupements formels avec la collaboration de ]'assistant juriste;
8.     Coordonner et collaborer avec les services et institutions techniques (i.e. PNVA, PSPHR, CMDT, ON et
autres)
9.     Elaborer les elements des rapports activites relatifs aux appuis dans l'irrigation privee;
Profil: Ingenieur du Genie Rural
Formation: au moins BAC plus 4 ans
Experience Professionnelle: Au moins six ann6es d'experience professionnelle dans les etudes et travaux
d'irrigation, la gestion technique et la formation pratique des beneficiaires
Duree du Poste: 6 mois d'essai, contrat de 2 annees renouvelables
Lieu d'affectation: Bamako, avec de frequents deplacements a l'interieur du Mali



44                                    Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Fiche de poste pour le Specialiste Agro-Economiste dans l'unite de Coordination - Bamako
Intitule du Poste:    Agro-economiste
Rattachement         sous l'unite de suivi et evaluation (Bamako)
economiste
Taches
1.    Assister le Responsable de Suivi et Evaluation
2.     Realiser les analyses economiques des sous-projets
Profil: Agro-economiste
Formation: au moins BAC plus 4 ans
Experience: au moins avoir 6 ans d'experience en analyse des projets



45                                        Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
Fiche de poste pour le Specialiste de l'Irrigation Privee des Antennes Regionales (Koulikoro/Bamako,
Sikasso, Segou, et Mopti)
Intitule du Poste: Ingenieur du Genie Rural
Rattachement:          Chef d'antenne
Taches:
1.     Effectuer l'evaluation technique des projets d'investissement relatifs a la demande des beneficiaires de
leurs projets
2.     Elaborer les fiches techniques pour des differents systemes d'irrigation priv6e
3.     Elaborer les termes de reference pour les 6tudes relatives a l'irrigation privee, avec l'appui des autres
specialistes de l'antenne regionale et avec I'avis du coordinateur de l'irrigation privee; et assister le chef
d'antenne dans la definition des Terrnes de reference des contrats des prestations des services et des
sous-traitance avec des prestataires de services externes (bureaux etudes, consultants, entreprises privees,
ONGs);
4.     Assurer le contr6le des travaux ainsi que la supervision des etudes techniques relatifs a l'irrigation priv6e
5.     Suivre la mise en oeuvre des tests des equipements de l'irrigation privee dans les zones de I'antenne;
6.     Appuyer I'agronome dans l'organisation de la formation des irrigants
7.     Programmer et superviser l'assistance juridique et administrative aux producteurs en ce qui
concerne les questions fonciers et de constitutions de groupements formels dans l'antenne
8.     Assurer la collaboration avec les services et institutions techniques et ONGs au niveau regionale dans le
domaine de l'irrigation privee.
9.     Suivre les mesures de corrections des effets nefastes lies A l'irrigation privee (par exemple
maladies lies A la transmission hydrique, erosion, utilisation des pesticides dans l'irrigation etc.)
10.    Suivre des dossiers bancaires relatifs A l'irrigation privde
11.    Elaborer les elements des rapports activit6s relatifs aux appuis dans l'irrigation privee;
Profil: Ing6nieur du Genie Rural
Formation: BAC plus 4 ans
Experience Professionnelle: Au moins six annees d'exp6rience professionnelle dans les etudes et travaux
d'irrigation, la gestion technique et la formation pratique des beneficiaires
Duree du Poste: 6 mois d'essai, contrat de 2 annees renouvelables



46                                      Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Fiche de poste pour l'Assistant Juriste dans l'unite de Coordination - Bamako
Intitule du Poste:   Assistant Juriste
Rattachement:        Coordinateur - Irrigation Priv6e
Taches
1.    Appui aux beneficiaires a la constitution des dossiers pour l'attribution des titres fonciers, (visites aux
exploitations, ateliers d'information)
2.     Suivre des dossiers des titres fonciers et des constitutions des groupements des irrigants en rapport avec
des notaires et des topographes agrees etc.
3.     Appuyer les antennes dans la programmation et supervision de l'assistance juridique et administrative
aux producteurs en ce qui concerne les questions fonciers et de constitutions de groupements formels.
4.     Appuyer au Directeur Administratif
5.     Elaborer les 6lements des rapports activites relatifs aux aspects juridique et foncier dans l'irrigation
privee.
Profil: Juriste
Formation: BAC plus 4 ans
Experience: Avoir au moins avoir 6 ans d'experience dans le domaine du foncier au Mali
Dur6e du Poste: 6 mois d'essai, contrat de 2 ann6es renouvelables



Implementation Arrangements
Components                         Activities                                                       Implementation Responsibility
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
a) Provision of Technical and      (i) training in operation and maintenance of irrigation equipment; and  APROFA, PNVA, IER; local consultants
managerial services to Producers    (ii) selection of the most cost-effective investment plans.
b) Assistance in credit documentation  (i) training to producers for appraisal of investments and for preparation    Internationally or locally recruited credit
and technical appraisal of      of loan requests; and                                            specialists under short-term consultancy
investments in irrigation       (ii) training of the staff of financial institutions for the technical appraisal
of loan requests for investment in irrigation.
(iii) screening of loan requests to be submitted to financial institutions  APROFA
2. LEGAL SERVICES AND
TECHNICAL STUDIES
a) Legal and Administrative Services  i) dissemination of information to producers on the necessary legal and    APROFA's
administrative steps involved in formalizing land ownership and
constitution of legal group entities; and
ii) perform the legal and administrative tasks.                  Local lawyers and notaries
b) Technical Studies               Technical studies for irrigation development                     Local consultants
3. TRAINING                        functional literacy                                              Local consultants
organizational management
financial management
4. TESTING OF                      Experimentation trials:                                          Internationally and locally recruited
IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT            i) Identification of Equipment; and                              consultants
ii) Operation and Maintenance of Equipment                       ENI/DNGR/PNVA/IER
5. ENVIRONMENTAL                   i) against land degradation; and                                 APROFA/ON
MITIGATION MEASURES             ii) against water-born diseases                                  APROFA/PSPHR
iii) environmental studies                                       Locally and internally recruited consultants
6. MONITORING OF                   Surveys and studies.                                             IER / consultants / APROFA
ENVIRONMENT INCENTIVES
o><
aF
o a



48                               Annex 7
Page I of 3
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
Estimation of the Beneficiaries Financial Contribution to Project Activities
Activities           Beneficiaries   Estimation       Total
Contribution
(FCFA)
Technical and Managerial
Assistance
Managerial Consultations       irrigators     5.000x2joursx   5.000.000
500 cons.
Technical Consultations        irrigators     5.000x2joursx   3.000.000
300
Faisibility Studies            irrigators     250.000x25%x 25.000.000
400
Legal Assistance
Land titles                    irrigators     146.500x200   29.300.000
Titre provisoire (2.5 ha average)
Follow-up of applications      irrigators     50.000x200     2.500.000
x25%
Titre foncier                   irrigators    200.000x2.5x1  80.000.000
60
Formally recognized producer    producer      50.000x70x2.5  0.875.000
groups                          groups
Training Activities
Financial, Organizational, and  irrigators    free          free
Managerial Capacities of producers
Credit                         financial      40.000xl5x6x  10.800.000
institutions  6x50%
Capacity Building               consulting    40.000x30x20  12.000.000
firms         x50%
Operations and Maintenance      mechanics                    1.100.000
Total Contribution                                          169.575.000
US$400.000*
* The financial contribution by the beneficiaires would be increased after the mid-term review,
and it is anticipated that their total contribution would amount to US$ 470.000.



"Proposed Cost-Recovery Scheme"
Contribution des Beneficiaires aux Couts des Appuis - Bareme Propose
Nature des Prestations               Specifications         Prestataires        Montants (i)       Projet   Bendficiaires
A.    Prestataires Externes:
1.    Scurisationfonciere
(a)    Terrain attribue par l'Etat
Lettre d'attribution           par dossier      Service foncier cercle          5 0000      Neant           5.000
Titre provisoire               par dossier                                     10.0000      Ndant          10.000
(b)    Proprietd traditionelle:
Titre provisoire               par dossier       DNGR/DRCT/DNU                 20.000       Ndant          20.000
Certificat administratif       par dossier      Service foncier cercle         12.500       Neant           12.500
Publication                    par dossier            l'Essor                   11.000      Neant           11.000
Cahier des charges             par dossier       Service de Domaine             3.000       Neant           3.000
Travaux topographiques
0. 1-5 ha         Topograph agree             100.000      Neant          100.000
5 ha            Topograph agree             140.000      Neant          140.000
10 ha           Topograph agree             190.000       N6ant          190.000
Titre Provisoire (montant total)       0.1-5 ha                                                                  146.500
Titre Provisoire (montant total)         5 ha                                                                    186.500
Titre Provisoire (montant total)        10 ha                                                                    236.500
(75.000) selon
(c)   Suivi des dossiers                par lot          Topograph agree        contrat            75%              25%
(50.000/dossier)
(d)  Dossier - Titre foncier            par ha         Service foncier cercle   200.000/ha        Neant       200.000/ha
2. Autres Appuis Juridique
Constitution des GlEs                   par lot              Notaires            50.000 FCFA       75%              25%
.6                                    par dossier/GIE
3.    Appuis Techniques
Etude faisabilite & financiere  1 00.000/ha        B Etudes, ONG           selon contrat    75 %             25%
Evaluation bancaire                                   Banques               2,5 % invest  Ne ant            100%
(Appuis a la mise en place)                  B Etudes, ONG, Fournisseur    selon contrat    75%             25%)   
(Suivi)                                            B Etudes, ONG           selon contrat    75%             25%)        rD
0
Mi



Nature des Prestations                Specifications          Prestataires         Montants (i)        Projet  Be neficiaires
Systeme de gestion                              B Etudes, ONG, consultants     selon contrat     75%              25%
Formation a la carte aux
(a) irrigants                                      B Etudes, ONG, etc.         selon contrat     75%            25% *
(b) institutions financieres                       B Etudes, ONG, etc.         selon contrat     50%             50%*
(c) services techniques                            B Etudes, ONG, etc.         selon contrat    100%
(d) autres prestataires de
services (B. Etudes,                               B Etudes, ONG, etc.                           50%             50%*
mecaniciens)
B.    Prestations Directes APROFA
1.     Guides                           1-10 pages                                                                       500
+ 10 pages                                                                      1.000
2.    Appuis individuels
Diagnostic/I ere visite                                 APROFA                     20.000       15.000          5.000
Etude faisabilite & financiere                           Banque                20.000/jour    15.000/jou    5.000/jour
Evaluation bancaire                                     APROFA                2,5 % investt     Neant           100 %
Appuis a la mise en place                               APROFA                 20.000/jour    15.000jour    5.000/jour         o
Suivi                                                   APROFA                 20.000/jour    15 .00jour    5.000/jour
Systeme de gestion                                      APROFA                 20.000/jour    15.000jour    5.000/jour
Formation a la carte                                    APROFA                       p.m.                       1.000
3.    Appuis polyvalents
Stands de foires
Seminaires
Notes: (i) Tarifs connus des prestations externes ou cofit estime du service fourni par l'agence
*pourcentages des couts marginaux, (y compris les deplacements, herbergements nourriture et autres)
OQ 0
PX m
x
0
Li_



51                                       Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND RURAL FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION
1.    Malian farmers' access to credit to finance productive investments in the irrigation
sector has been marginal. Most agricultural credit (98 percent) is seasonal credit for the
financing of farm inputs and crop marketing. The ODRs and development projects have played
a prominent role in formal credit allocation and management, and have often operated as
intermediaries for the local banks. Informal credit through money lenders or village-based
savings/credit operations is poorly documented, but appears to be confined to consumption
purposes. A number of initiatives have been supported by donors and Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) to promote community-based savings/credit operations. The three major
existing schemes are: (i) the Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit with 95 institutions; (ii) the
Caisses Villageoises d'Epargne et de Credit Autogerees with more than 100 institutions; and
(iii) the Caisses de Credit with more than 266 institutions. In total, in 1995, the more than 500
microfinance institutions operating in Mali had 78.000 members, savings of about CFAF1.6
billion and total outstanding credit of CFAF2.9 billion (equivalent to 0.5 percent and two
percent of formal financial system deposits and credit, respectively). However, in most such
operations, unit costs per loan tend to be high because they usually involve small loan amounts.
Thus, most of the community savings/credit schemes do not provide opportunities for financing
productive investments because of the high interest charged and because these schemes have
not generated enough resources to finance productive investments.
2.    The Malian banking system is relatively small consisting of 6 commercial banks, and a
few financial institutions. The coverage of the rural sector is limited, the banks have only a
total of 12 branches outside the capital and in general, they have not been interested in rural
credit, in particular in irrigation. However, the banks, and especially the National Bank for
Agricultural Development (BNDA), have recently decided to take a more aggressive role in
funding private irrigation. There are two reasons for this. First, recovery of seasonal credit
provided through the ODRs has encountered major problems, e.g., from the ON since
1992/93. Second, the results of BNDA's post evaluation of its past medium and long-term
credit programs in irrigation indicate that these programs failed because of poor design and
management, as well as the faulty technical appraisal of the irrigation projects. In particular,
this evaluation provided valuable lessons from a BNDA-financed credit program in the
mid-eighties. The program provided credits totaling a million dollars equivalent. Beneficiaries
were young school graduates and civil servant retirees, and neither collateral nor equity
participation were required. Virtually no relevant analyses were made on the technical
feasibility of the proposed projects, while most beneficiaries had little or no prior experience in
irrigated agriculture. In addition, the lack of fully guaranteed land titles turned out to be a
major problem. The program's results were disastrous with a loan default rate exceeding 90
percent. Following the results of its evaluation, BNDA has issued new stringent credit criteria
to deter uncommitted borrowers. Its lending program includes medium and long-term credit for
investment by groups of producers but with beneficiaries providing a 20 percent equity
participation, a quarter of which is to be in cash. Loan guarantees are requested from
borrowers using other assets such as houses and vehicles. Currently, interest rates charged by
BNDA range from 11 to 14 percent.



52                                         Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
3.     Two important obstacles remain, which deter a large-scale development of formal
credit for investment in irrigation. First, the Malian banking system has limited expertise in
appraising investment projects in irrigation. BNDA and other local financial institutions have
relied on ODRs to allocate and manage agricultural credit. Thus, they have had few incentives
to develop an in-house capacity to carry out technical appraisals of loan requests for
investments in irrigation. Second, the capacity of farmers to prepare adequate investment
proposals is weak. For example, in a EU-financed project to promote small enterprises in
urban areas, out of 17,000 project proposals presented by private entrepreneurs, final appraisal
by the project unit considered only 705 projects (5 percent) viable. The results of an extensive
survey of irrigation farmers conducted during project preparation also suggests a weak capacity
of producers to identify financially viable investments.



53                                 Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
LAND TENURE
1.   The Malian legislation on land tenure was adopted in 1986 under the Land Code ("Code
Domanial et Foncier"). An important feature of the Code is that it recognizes customary rights.
Traditional land users have a usufruct right over "their" lands, and land management at the
community level is under the responsibility of the village chief. The Natural Resource
Management Project (Cr. 2370-MLI) builds on this legislation and aims to develop the
management capacity of local communities over communal lands. Another important feature of
this legislation is that it guarantees the use of land either by individuals or by groups for 99
years. This can be formalized via land titling. However, less than 3 percent of rural land users
have full guarantee land titles backed by title deeds. Three main reasons account for this: (a)
there is poor understanding by the public at large of the different stages of formalizing one's land
rights thus leading to high transaction costs; (b) it is perceived as being difficult and costly to
obtain the land title; (c) the benefits from formal ownership of land relative to traditional
usufruct rights are not highly weighted by farmers, not only because investments in the farm are
often too limited to warrant the costs of securing formal ownership, but also because the land
title is often not recognized by the local communities. However, the demand for land titles has
increased among small-scale irrigators in peri-urban areas where land shortage is a growing
problem. An increasing number of farmers who have no land title in these areas see their land
being transferred to construction sites for public or private use.
2.   The Land Code provides for the transformation of usufruct rights into fully formalized
land titles. Specifically, there are four stages in this process. Eirs. a request is presented to the
village chief who ensures that there is no usufruct right claim on the land by another person.
Second, the petitioner presents the request to the local administrative officer (Commandant de
Cercle), with a map showing the location of the land; a formal survey is undertaken to confirm
that there are no other claims on the lands. Third the boundaries of the land are marked out, and
a "rural property" (Concession Rurale) is attributed to the petitioner, along with a specific list of
obligations pertaining to the development of the land. Fourth upon fulfillment of the land
development agreement, the formalized land title guarantees the petitioner the right to use the
land for 99 years. While the land is under the Concession Rurale status, the petitioner pays
annual taxes of CFAF 1,250/ha. An additional tax payment of CFAF 200,000/ha is required
when the petitioner transforms the Concession into privately owned property.   The
Decentralization Law which was ratified in 1996, reinforces the local control over community
resources.
3.   Key legal statutes in Mali are broadly gender neutral. In principle, women have equal
access to land as men and the Land Code clearly bans discrimination in the awarding of land on
the basis of gender. Nevertheless, there are still certain aspects regarding the implementation
that result in gender bias. For example, many female-headed households do not have the family
registration information needed as a basis for applying for land. Moreover, because the land
generally belongs to the husband's family, many women irrigators who become widows loose
their user rights to the land they cultivated. In general, women irrigation farmers are often less
aware than men of the benefits of formal land ownership, and are also less informed about the
processes involved in obtaining formalized land titles.



54                              Annex 10
Page I of 3
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
There are several key public institutions which have been entrusted with a direct role in
irrigation development in Mali. However, these focus mainly on public irrigation schemes and
little priority is given to small-scale private irrigation activities. Moreover, the private sector is
still weak and has little hands-on experience in the sub-sector. For example, there are only a few
private consulting firms with adequate technical expertise in private irrigation. The NGOs and
the international donor community involved in the sub-sector tend to prioritize communal
schemes, and seldom target the development of privately managed irrigation perimeters.
1.    Public and Private Institutions and Rural Producer Organizations
1.1    The role of the National Directorate of Rural Engineering (DNGR) under the MDRE has
changed significantly from nationwide technical responsibility for overseeing public irrigation
development and direct involvement in engineering studies to a more general role in advising,
monitoring and supervising public irrigation activities. At present, DNGR's performance is
hampered by weak management. It has acquired extensive experience in technical studies and in
works supervision and monitoring, and has the country's most skilled people in irrigation
engineering. Many of DNGR's best engineers carry out technical studies for irrigation projects
as private consultants.
1.2   The PNVA has a long experience in providing extension services to smallholders
involved in agricultural sub-sectors other than private irrigation, such as livestock and rainfed
crops. In 1996, PNVA recruited horticultural specialists in the Koulikoro region and in the
district of Bamako. Subsequent to the proposed project's start up, PNVA would also hire
horticultural specialists in the "cercles" to be covered by the new project. These specialists
would work in close collaboration with the technical staff of the proposed project and would
together with the National Agricultural Research Program, make efforts to identify producers'
priority constraints, to disseminate available and improved techniques, and to carry out other on-
farm experiments tailored to the needs of the fruit and vegetable producers. The involvement of
the Institute of Rural Economy (IER) in the sub-sector has been limited to a few socio-economic
studies related to irrigation.
1.3    Three Ministries intervene in the water and sanitation sector. The Ministry of Mine,
Energy and Hydraulics is in charge of coordinating and planning the sector studies on water
resources, collecting data and supervising projects through the National Directorate of
Hydraulics and Energy (DNHE). The Ministry of Public Health intervenes through its Hygiene
and Sanitation departments. The Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment is the
main water user through its institutions such as ODRs involved in the irrigation and livestock
sector.
1.4    With regard to the ODRs, the role of ON is limited to extension services and
development rehabilitation and maintenance of the infrastructure of ON's rice schemes. ORM
and ORS have mainly carried out hydraulic works to improve flood control cultivation systems
of rice, although ORM has constructed some small irrigated village perimeters (PPIV) in the
Niger Delta in the Mopti region.



55                               Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
1.5   The Mali Chamber of Agriculture (CAM) was until recently a semi-public institution
under the control of MDRE. It has undergone major changes in status and structure. There are
eight Regional CAMs and these are composed of elected representatives of the rural population.
They have a broader mandate to promote private sector initiatives, to support professional
organizations and producer groups, and to represent rural sector interests. Coordination of policy
and programs, and support to the Regional Chambers are assured by the Permanent Assembly of
the Malian Regional Chambers of Agriculture (APCAM). In 1995, APCAM established
APROFA, which is implementing PAVCOPA and would, in the future, carry out the proposed
project. The Regional CAMs are still rather inexperienced institutions, but they are gaining
hands-on experience from their involvement in the implementation of PAVCOPA, which also
provides them with technical assistance and training (workshops and study tours). In the future,
they are expected to play a more significant role in providing selected key support services to
private producers and entrepreneurs in the agricultural and agroprocessing sectors.
1.6   The rural producer organizations are generally weak with little operational experience.
The Government is now giving priority to the need for promoting and strengthening these rural
grassroots institutions to let them play a future key role in agricultural activities such as contact
points for extension services and local agencies for the management of farm input supply, crop
marketing and credit. Producer organizations designed for input provision and/or product
marketing, such as cooperatives, pre-cooperatives and other "groupements", proliferated until the
mid-1980's. However, their creation was most often initiated by Government agencies and their
operations were supported by the administration and/or development projects. Moreover, as part
of its disengagement policy, the Government has stepped down from direct interference and has
now allowed them a high degree of autonomy. With this decrease in direct support, many
previously weak organizations ceased to operate. The Malian legislation provides for the creation
of small Economic Interest Groups (GIEs) of usually fewer than ten members who pool their
resources for implementing development activities. GIE activities tend to be more commercially
oriented than those conducted by village associations and the members are jointly responsible for
the repayment of credit to individual members. Unlike most of the traditional "Tons Villageois"
and "Associations Villageoises", which usually have community-based and socially oriented
activities, professional rural producer organizations and GIEs can play a key role in providing
extension services, input supply, product marketing, and access to and reimbursement of credit.
1.7   There are only a few private consulting firms which have adequate technically skilled
people who undertake technical studies for irrigation development. The reason may be due to
lack of demand for such services since the bulk of private investments in irrigation is carried out
informally with no feasibility studies. There is a need for reinforcing their technical capacities,
and to train the producers to consider feasibility studies as a necessary guide to investment
decisions.



56                              Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
2.    NGOs and International Donor Organizations
2.1    About 200 NGOs operate in Mali, 60 percent are non-resident. Although about one third
of the NGOs are involved in irrigation development, they focus mainly on the development of
small-scale communal schemes, such as irrigated village perimeters (PPIVs) or gardening
activities for local women groups, and are seldom involved in the development of private
irrigation. In general, NGO activities take an integrated approach, from project design to
implementation, but with strong farmer participation and training. This allows NGOs to maintain
close relationships with beneficiaries, and makes them useful partners in activities which require
strong beneficiary participation. However, the NGOs often depend on fluctuating financial
assistance from the donor community and their programs, usually of limited scope, are often
relatively uncoordinated with each other. In addition, NGOs often lack adequate technically
skilled staff, and project design by NGOs tends to be based on too rudimentary studies, thus
leading to unduly low technical performance.
2.2   Several bi-lateral and multi-lateral donors are involved in financing irrigation
development in Mali, and, like the NGOs, they focus mainly on the development of communally
managed schemes. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has, since
the beginning of the 1980s, provided financing for the development of the communal cotton
perimeters of "Operation Haute- Vallee" (OHV). At present, USAID finances the training of the
OHV's cooperatives in management of credit, input supply and marketing. Furthermore, USAID
has since 1995 financed the dissemination of small and inexpensive threddle pumps. This
includes information and marketing campaigns and training of local manufacturers in production
and maintenance. The pumps are gaining an increasing popularity among Mali's small-scale
irrigators. The European Development Fund (FED) finances a small-scale irrigation project in
the Niger delta in the Mopti region which includes construction of small PPIVs and training of
PPIV producers in functional literacy, financial management, and operation and maintenance of
infrastructure and equipment. In the Gao region in the north of Mali, the United Nation's Food
and Agricultural Organization (FAO) finances the construction and maintenance of small,
community-managed rice perimeters.
2.3   The French Development Cooperation finances the Mali Peri-Urban Project which
includes a new small private irrigation component which aims to improve private irrigators in
obtaining credit for investments in the sector, particularly gardening activities, and provided
assistance to farmers in preparing investment plans. The component's scope and interventions
have so far been limited. No staff have technical skills in irrigation engineering. After one year
of implementation experience, the project has screened 25 loan applications for investments in
irrigation, of which BNDA has approved fewer than 10. The irrigation component will be closed
in 1997, and subsequently the project will only continue financing its livestock component which
includes the development of animal fodder and animal fattening.



57                            Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
Mali
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILES:
1. The Government's policy letter for the sub-sector.
2. Economic Analysis.
3. APROFA's Implementation Manual and amendments.
4. Detailed Implementation Plan and supervision schedule.
5. Working Documents, Studies:
- Etude Technico-Economique des Exploitations Irriguees Privees dans le District
de Bamako et la Region de Koulikoro, 1996
- Etude Diagnostique de la Situation Pedologique des Sols sous Irrigation de la
Region de Koulikoro et du District de Bamako, 1994
- Etude Diagnostic de la Situation Sanitaire dans les Zones du Projet Irrigation
Privee, 1994
- Note sur la Simplification de l'Acc6ldration des Mecanismes de Securisation
Fonciere et de Reconnaissance Juridique des Structures Collectives de
Production, 1994
Mecanismes de Formalisation de l'Acces a la Terre et Obtention de Statut
Juridique pour les Groupements de Producteurs, 1994
- Etude des Moyens d'Exhaure
- Etude d'Identification des Sites. 1993
- Production et Exportation de la Mangue et du Haricot Vert du Mali
- Diagnostic de la Situation Actuelle de l'Irrigation Priv6e, 1992
- Volet Credit Agricole de l'Etude des Contraintes et des Potentialites de
l'Irrigation Privee, 1991.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28717
12                          IS 0                                                   oS'                            4'                         2'                         o".                           2                           4
M    A    L I                                                 ,
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION                                                  j    i
PROMOTION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                             A L G E R I A
PROJET PILOTE DE PROMOTION                                                                               O  'U,TOU 
DE L'IRRIGATION PRIVEE                                                   j                                                                                                                                                         22
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20 jg.~2 
AREAS COVERED BY THE PROJECT             -  SAHARAN
REGION COCVERTES PAR PROJET                 SAHARIENNE                       |.
PAVED ROADS                                 SUE SAHARIENNE                                                                                                                          K   I D    A   L      
ROUTES REVETUES                             SAHELIAN
ENGINEERED EARTH ROADS                      SAHELENNE                                                                                                                            R  E   G   I         N
ROUTES EN TERRE MODERNES                    SUDANIAN                                                              G        ON
_    RA ROAD                           ~~~~~~~~GU NEAN                                           '                                                                  ,             K;l       .                             j
CHEMIN DE FER                               GUZNENNEKi1
-18 - ~ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS                       CERCLE BOUNDARIES
IO-1          SHYTS NMLLMTRS6MITES DES CERCLES                                                                                                                                                                                           1
._     NAVIGABLE RIVER (JULY-DECEMBERI      _   _  REGION BOUNDARIES
RIVIERE NAVIGARLE (JUILLET-DECEMEREL        LIMITES REGIONALES
FLOOD AREA                             --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                 -10
ZONE D INONDATI-N                           FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
0     50    I00   150   200   250KILOMETERS                                                       . ..... fR
L~~~~~       ~       ~ --------''-------,    '-                                                                                                          .",,--E                              ,5'; 
16-                                              M    A  U  R  I T A  N   I A                                                                                                                                                                       16
(. - - - - - - - - -
'K                                                                                                          2>C;  ,, -- _KOUIIKORO                                                                                N I G E R
O*2 SEA,VO15              KAYES                             KOUL-[IKON REGIO N i                 (          M       T                                                                             Th,bo oupnp~d=rnd byheMoptE  De.o.g -9 ojThe nWdd Bok
--   KO_ E     _   _ R         - .         le   . -                                             U                                                                                  ' N _        /udgmefKA  Th. b= co-.,, d-o.i- ol- -d -oy.tho. ,--n,o- o.-
L o _ ,,do -      on -bE-o,IoTh. Wo.IdBoUS G.  o, G O-
R-G1(t'   'o.IO  oe,,og-                                                                                                                                                           h et   00    -y -O~O  ~oy e-d '--      I
V)~~~~~~-          -                                                                                                                                                                         .-p.      f - 5h>_, o  L\YTmnosr
Z                                                                                                                                                       '     N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
LU                                                                                           *G                                                                                                                           N              ToA 1 R ARI
2\ )**\            N                    -AURITANIA                                                                                                                            I       MALI
LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ITooooVo
x....  \           /'~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                    ~ --------------
KOU- I|,g[K MUIA '   5 / ._.____  NI
G  U  I N  E A                                     |                                                                                                                       - Heodzolop  '  if  r  5S.4 ./ 1 B  /  BURKNINA AAO  F   NIG
-l 1,2                             102 --)                                    }                    Ado                                                                               ,        -lE                                t;NN 
GUINEA                     BENI~~~~INGE
G    U   I N    E A                                                                                                                                                     BURKI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  -CTE'EGR  L   HNA FS
IS' 12'                                                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:          16256   MLI
Type:      SAR



