Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N021 MLI
Interim Fund  
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International Development
 Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated July 3, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N021 MLI 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MALI the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Agence pour la Promotion des Filières 
Agricoles (APROFA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to APROFA the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
between the Administrator and APROFA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”; 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity; and
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
Page  3
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“APCAM” means Assemblée Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali, 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 93-044 of August 4, 1993, and Decree 
No. 93-295 of August 18, 1993;
(b)
“APROFA” means Agence pour la Promotion des Filières Agricoles 
established pursuant to APCAM’s “Decision No.” 00307/APCAM of June 26, 1995;
(c)
“Project Area” means the district of Bamako and the cercles of: Kati and 
Koulikoro (Koulikoro region), Mopti and Djenné (Mopti region), Segou, San and Bla 
(Segou region), and Sikasso, Koutiala, Bougouni and Kadiolo (Sikasso region);
(d)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Administrator and APROFA, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
“Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, including the Manuel de Procédures (as defined hereinafter); and all 
annexes, schedules and other attachments to the Convention;
(g)
“Manuel de Procedures” means the manual adopted by APROFA on December 30, 
1996, setting out, inter alia, criteria, procedures, and guidelines to be followed by 
APROFA in carrying out the Project, and attached as a schedule to the Convention, as 
amended pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Producers” means agricultural producers, individual and groups, engaged 
in private irrigation activities in the Project Area;
(i)
“Consultative Committee” means APROFA’s advisory consultative committee 
with representation from the private sector and the Borrower’s agencies whose 
activities complement or reinforce APROFA’s activities, established and operating 
pursuant to Decision No. 00307/APCAM (June 26, 1995), as amended by APCAM;
(j)
“FCAF” means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower;
(k)
“IER” means the Borrower's Institut d'Economie Rurale, established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(l)
“PNVA” means the Borrower's Projet National de Vulgarisation Agricole, 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(m)
“CMDT” means Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles, 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(n)
“PSPHR” means the Borrower’s Projet Santé, Population, et Hydraulique 
Rurale;
(o)
“ON” means Office du Niger, established and operating under the laws of 
Page  4
the Borrower;
(p)
“MDRE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Development and 
Environment;
(q)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the plan to reduce negative impacts 
which may result from the development of small-scale irrigation in the Project Area, 
adopted by the Borrower on April 30, 1997; and
(r)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
December 19, 1990 and March 13, 1991 between the Borrower and the Administrator.
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 3,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against setoff, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
Page  5
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2007 and ending 
March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 
2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
(6) months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause APROFA to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement, all its obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable APROFA to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
to APROFA, on a grant basis, under an agreement (the Convention) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and APROFA, and under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
Page  6
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit and, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, or waive the 
Convention, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project shall be carried out by APROFA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Not later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower shall carry out, 
jointly with APROFA and the Administrator, a comprehensive review of the execution of 
the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the review 
shall, inter alia, cover: (i) the status and results of training, reporting, 
accounting and audit performance, disbursement and procurement procedures and the 
overall sustainability of the Project, and (ii) the impact of the Project on the 
environment.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account, or payment 
out of  
the Special Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, audited, 
in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as possible, but in any case 
Page  7
not later 
than four (4) months after the end of such year the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
APROFA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that APROFA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of APROFA or for the suspension of 
its operations; and
(d)
the Statutes of APROFA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of APROFA to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Convention has been duly executed by the Borrower and APROFA; and 
(b)
APROFA has amended the Manual de Procédures, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by APROFA 
and is legally binding upon APROFA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
Page  8
and APROFA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and APROFA in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
  and Commerce
Bamako
Mali
Telex:
2559
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Page  9
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Praful C. Patel 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
        Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
    % of
        (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Vehicles, 
400,000
100% of foreign
office supplies
expenditures and
and equipment
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services,
     1,450,000
100%
Studies and Training
(3)
Incremental Operating
350,000
100%
Costs
(4)
Refunding of
550,000
Amount due pursuant to 
Project Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Advance
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
250,000
      ________
TOTAL
     3,000,000
     ========= 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
vehicle operation, travel costs and salaries of APROFA's staff.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions 
Page  10
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: 
(a) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (b) consultants' 
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$50,000 for individual consultants.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's private irrigation 
subsector in the Project Area through the carrying out of a pilot program of 
activities.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Strengthening of APROFA
Strengthening APROFA’s institutional and technical capacity to promote the 
Borrower’s strategy for the development of private irrigation, through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training.
Part B:
Technical and Managerial Services and Training for Producers
1.
Strengthening the technical and managerial capacities of Producers in: (i) the 
operation and maintenance of irrigation equipment; and (ii) the preparation of 
cost-effective investment plans, through the acquisition of equipment and vehicles and 
provision of technical advisory services, and training.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of: (i) Producers and professional staff, in the 
appraisal of irrigation investments and the preparation of financing requests; and 
(ii) staff of financial institutions, in the technical appraisal of financing requests 
for investments in the irrigation subsector, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training.
Part C:
Legal Services and Technical Studies
1.
Strengthening the capacities of individual Producers to establish legally 
recognized groups of Producers  through provision of legal advisory services.
2.
Improving the access of Producers to the Borrower’s land registration system 
through provision of technical and legal advisory services and training.
3.
Carrying out technical studies for the development of private irrigation 
activities in the Project Area.
Part D:
Testing of Irrigation Equipment
Carrying out of on-farm trials of irrigation techniques and equipment, and 
dissemination of results of such trials, through the acquisition of equipment and 
provision of technical advisory services, and training.
Part E:
Capacity Building
Training of Producers in micro-enterprise management, including financial and 
organizational management.
Part F:
Environmental Mitigation
1.
Preparation and implementation of environmental mitigation measures designed to 
prevent irrigation-related soil erosion and water-born diseases, through the 
acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training.
2.
Carrying out of studies and surveys to assess the institutional and regulatory 
environment of the development of private irrigation schemes. 
Page  11
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of CFAF 120,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 60,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 750,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  12
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
