Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N021 MLI
Project Agreement
(Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established with funds contributed
by certain members of International Development Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of International Development Association
and
AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION DES FILIERES AGRICOLES
Dated July 3, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N021 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association on June 26, 1996 and AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION 
DES FILIERES AGRICOLES (APROFA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between THE REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the 
Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, but 
only on condition that APROFA agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Administrator as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and APROFA 
(Convention), the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit provided for under the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement will be made available to APROFA on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the said Convention; and
WHEREAS APROFA, in consideration of the Administrator's entering into the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) APROFA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate environmental, administrative and financial practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and APROFA shall otherwise agree, APROFA shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. APROFA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) APROFA shall, at the request of the Administrator, exchange 
views with the Administrator with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Interim Fund Credit; and 
(b)
APROFA shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by 
APROFA of its obligations under this Agreement. 
Section 2.05. APROFA shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Convention. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, APROFA shall not take 
or concur in action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, or waiving 
the Convention or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, APROFA 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the APROFA and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objective of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
APROFA on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of APROFA
Section 3.01. APROFA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and environmental practices under the 
Page  3
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. APROFA shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial practices.
Section 3.03. APROFA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) APROFA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including its operations in respect to the Project.
(b)
APROFA shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related  
statements), including those 
for the Special Account, for each period 
of six (6) months audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four (4) months after the end of the period referred to 
in subparagraph 
(i) above: (A) certified copies  of its financial 
statements for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and of 
APROFA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For APROFA:
555 Avenue Cheikh Zaed
BP: E2699
Bamako 
Mali
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of APROFA, or by 
APROFA on behalf of the Borrower under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by the General Manager of APROFA or such other person or 
persons as the General Manager shall designate in writing, and APROFA shall furnish to 
the Administrator sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Praful C. Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa 
AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION 
    DES FILIERES AGRICOLES
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of "Section I of the 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 as amended in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
 Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $550,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator, (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Under the overall coordination of MDRE, APROFA will be responsible for the 
implementation of the Project. For this purpose, MDRE shall modify the composition of 
the Consultative Committee to include representatives of the private irrigation 
subsector. For the purposes of the implementation of the Project, APROFA shall 
establish work units, with all necessary staff, in Bamako, Koulikoro, Segou, Sikasso 
and Mopti. Provided, however that the Mopti unit shall be established only after the 
midterm review referred to in Section 3.03. (a) of the Development Credit Agreement 
dated August 9, 1995 (Credit Number 2737 MLI). 
2.
APROFA shall coordinate its activities with existing specialized agencies, 
programs, and projects providing support to private sector operators engaged in 
irrigation activities within the territory of the Borrower.
3.
APROFA shall implement partial cost recovery mechanisms described in the Manuel 
de Procédures, acceptable to the Association, for the provision of all support 
services to be provided under the Project.
4.
APROFA shall carry out the Project, in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, monitoring indicators and criteria set out in Manuel de Procédures and, 
except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, APROFA shall not amend, abrogate or 
waive any provision thereof in a manner which, in the opinion of the Administrator, 
will materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
5.
APROFA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Page  7
Mitigation Plan.
6.
APROFA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
(b)
furnish to the Administrator for its review and comments semiannual 
progress reports on the status of the Project.
(c)
not later than November 1 of each year, furnish to the Administrator: (i) 
for its approval, a proposed annual work program, including a proposed budget and 
financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) for its review, a report in 
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the progress of the 
Project during the current year.
(d)
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, commencing in 1998, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Administrator and the Borrower a joint semiannual 
review on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the 
progress achieved by APROFA during the current fiscal year, having regard to the 
monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph.
(e)
following each semiannual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project, or to implement such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
7.
APROFA shall:
(a)
participate in the midterm review referred to in Section 3.04 of  the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
(b)
Not later than thirty days prior to the review referred to in paragraph 
(a) above, APROFA furnish to the Administrator, for its comments, a report in such 
detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the 
progress achieved in implementing the various components of the Project, and a draft 
action plan containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies. 
(c)
Promptly after said review, (i) prepare an action plan satisfactory to 
the Administrator based on the recommendations stemming from the aforementioned 
review, and (ii) adopt and implement said action plan for the remainder of the Project 
implementation period.
