Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3977 DJI 
GRANT NUMBER H123 DJI
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AGENCE DJIBOUTIENNE D’EXÉCUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTÉRÊT 
PUBLIC
 
Dated October 2, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3977 DJI 
GRANT NUMBER H123 DJI 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE DJIBOUTIENNE 
D’EXÉCUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTÉRÊT PUBLIC (ADETIP). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Financing Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Djibouti (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Financing Agreement, but only on 
condition that ADETIP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and ADETIP, 
the proceeds of the Financing provided for under the Development Financing Agreement 
for the Project will be made available to ADETIP on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Convention; and 
 
WHEREAS (C) ADETIP, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Financing Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) ADETIP declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Financing Agreement and, to this 
end, shall assist the Borrower to carry out the Project, all with due diligence and 
Page  3
-2- 
 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Association, the Borrower and ADETIP shall otherwise agree, 
ADETIP shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
(c) 
ADETIP shall exercise its rights under ADETIP Convention in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and ADETIP;  
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the ADETIP Convention; and 
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) ADETIP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
(b) 
ADETIP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by ADETIP of its obligations under 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. ADETIP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project. 
 
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, ADETIP shall take steps to:  
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
submit to the Borrower, for onward transmission to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and  
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and ADETIP on said plan. 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of ADETIP 
 
Section 3.01. ADETIP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. ADETIP shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices. 
 
Section 3.03. ADETIP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) ADETIP shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) ADETIP 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year (or any other period agreed to by 
the Association) audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
any other period agreed to by the Association, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request, including, without 
limitation of the foregoing, audited Project accounts and 
financial statements for each fiscal year as soon as available, but 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such year. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) ADETIP shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial 
Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first Fiscal Year trimester after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first Fiscal Year trimester; thereafter, each FMR shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent 
Fiscal Year trimester, and shall cover such Fiscal Year trimester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ADETIP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Financing Agreement shall 
terminate in  accordance with its terms; or 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
(ii) 
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Financing Agreement terminates in accordance with 
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ADETIP of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For ADETIP: 
 
Avenue Pasteur 
 
BP 4298 
 
Djibouti City 
 
Republic of Djibouti 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADETIP, or by 
ADETIP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Financing Agreement, may 
be taken or executed by Director General or such other person or persons as Director 
Page  7
-6- 
 
General shall designate in writing, and ADETIP shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
 
          /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
 Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
AGENCE DJIBOUTIENNE D’EXÉCUTION DES  
 
TRAVAUX D’INTÉRÊT PUBLIC 
 
By  
 
 
 
      /s/ Yacin Elmi Bouh 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
:
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
:
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $ 500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. Shopping
:
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
:
Goods and works related to the 
rehabilitation/reconstruction of bridges under Part A of the Project, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
4. Community 
Participation
:
Works relating to small scale community 
infrastructure under Part B of the Project may be carried out through community 
participation in accordance with procedures agreed with the Association. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
:
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
:
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
:
Services estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
:
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
:
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for works and services (other than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding, or National Competitive Bidding, and all contracts awarded on the basis of 
Direct Contracting method; (b) each contract for goods
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; (c) each 
Page  10
-9- 
 
contract for consu
ltants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000
 
or more; (d) each contract for individual consultants’ estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000
 
or more; and (e) all contracts awarded on single source basis. All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
ADETIP Implementation Program 
 
1. 
ADETIP shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, and shall not amend or waive the Project Implementation 
Manual or any provision thereof, without the prior consent of the Association. 
 
2. 
ADETIP shall: (i) ensure that each and every activity under the Project remains 
consistent with the EMP, which it will prepare in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) in case displacement of people or loss economic activity is caused 
by any such activity, shall ensure to prepare a RAP, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, the provisions of which shall be complied with to resettle the displaced 
persons or to compensate them for the loss of economic activity.   
 
3. ADETIP 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 28, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Associ
ation’s views on the matter. 
 
