Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3977 DJI 
GRANT NUMBER H123 DJI 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 2, 2004 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3977 DJI 
GRANT NUMBER H123 DJI 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by ADETIP with the Borrower
’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
Credit and of the Grant provided for in this Agreement available to ADETIP, as set forth 
in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Association and ADETIP (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
 
(a) 
“ADETIP” means Agence djiboutienne d’exécution des travaux d’intérêt
public
,
a
non
profit agency for public works, established by the Borrower pursuant to the 
ADETIP Statutes (as hereinafter defined);  
 
(b) 
“Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ADETIP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
Page  4
-
2
-
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the ADETIP Convention;  
 
(c) 
“ADETIP Statutes” means the statutes governing the operations of 
ADETIP, adopted in May 1999, and such term shall include all schedules to, and the by-
laws enacted under, the ADETIP Statutes; 
 
(d) 
“DMU” means the Borrower’s disaster management unit; 
 
(e) 
“EMP” or “Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental 
and Social Safeguards Plan to be prepared by ADETIP with general oversight of the 
Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, to set out, among other 
things: (i) key principles for social and environmental management under the different 
activities of the Project; (ii) procedures to screening for significant social and 
environmental impacts, and to assist in mitigating impacts; and (iii) procedures to ensure 
that these principles and procedures are properly applied; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
(g) 
“MEFPP” means Ministère de l’Economie, des Finances et de la 
Planification chargé de la Privatisation
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, Finance 
and Planning in charge of Privatization;  
 
(h) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
July 15, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation. 
 
(i) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
ADETIP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;  
 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual prepared by 
ADETIP in 1999, for the purpose of carrying out selected activities under the Social 
Development and Public Works Project financed by the Association through its Credit 
3225-DJI, and providing details of all operational guidelines and procedures agreed with 
the Association for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project, 
including: (i) administrative, accounting and financial procedures; (ii) procurement and 
disbursement arrangements; (iii) performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation 
guidelines, and (iv) environmental assessment methodology including mechanism for 
resettlement of displaced people, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
consent of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(k) 
“RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan to be prepared by ADETIP, 
with general oversight of the Borrower, in connection with the carrying out of activities 
described in Part A.1 of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
 
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,200,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred 
thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,200,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing.
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Page  6
-
4
-
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum . 
 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2015 and ending August 1, 2044. 
Each installment up to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2024, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) Whenev
er: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
Page  7
-
5
-
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, t
he
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment of the Credit to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III  
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause ADETIP to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all 
the obligations of ADETIP therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable ADETIP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with ADETIP (hereinafter 
referred to as the ADETIP Convention), under which it shall make the proceeds of the 
Financing available to ADETIP on a non-reimbursable basis for the purposes of the 
Project under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.   
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ADETIP Convention in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the Grant, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ADETIP 
Convention or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement 
Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ADETIP 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain a Steering Committee to ensure 
coordination and monitoring of the Project, including coordination of all contributions 
offered by the donors community to avoid any duplication of efforts to rehabilitate flood 
damages and coordinate the technical input of all concerned ministries and agencies of 
the Borrower in the bidding documents so as to ensure timely implementation; such 
Steering Committee to include the Mayor of Djibouti Ville, shall be chaired by the Prime 
Minister.  
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
cause ADETIP to maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall,  and shall cause ADETIP to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
Page  10
-
8
-
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Financing Accounts was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Association may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADETIP to prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
ADETIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Financing Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that ADETIP will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the ADETIP Convention has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and ADETIP.  
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
ADETIP, and is legally binding upon ADETIP in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the ADETIP Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ADETIP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ADETIP in 
accordance with its terms.  
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministère de l’Economie, des Finances et de la Planification chargé de la 
Privatisation  
 
B.P. 13  
 
Djibouti City  
 
Republic of Djibouti 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Yacin 
Elmi 
Bouh 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
         /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works                   1,850,000 
 850,000 
          100%  
 
(2) 
Goods                           - 
1,000,000 
          100%  
 
(3) 
Consultants’  
 
 
services                  100,000 
100,000 
          100%  
 and 
training 
 
(4) 
ADETIP Fees         125,000        
125,000 
          100% 
 
(5) 
Unallocated             125,000  
125,000 
 
________ ________ 
 
 
TOTAL 2,200,000 
2,200,000 
 
========= ======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “ADETIP Fees” means the costs 
incurred by ADETIP in the administration and management of the Project, on behalf of 
the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 850,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after April 13, 2004; and (b) payments made for expenditures under 
Part A.1 and A.2(iii) of the Project, unless: (i) such expenditures are consistent with the 
provision of the EMP which has been prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, and has been approved by the Association; and (ii) if resettlement of 
persons, displaced by the Project, is triggered by any activity, a RAP, in form and 
Page  15
-
13
-
substance satisfactory to the Association, has been prepared and has been approved by 
the Association.  
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Financing Accounts to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:  
(a) goods costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the rehabilitation and 
recovery of the economic and social assets damaged by the floods of April 2004.     
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Urgent Rehabilitation of Economic and Social Infrastructure
1. 
Rehabilitation of Flood Protection Structures: Construction of a series of structures 
including: (i) rebuilding the destroyed flood protection dyke protecting the Ambouli 
quarter; and (ii) rehabilitating/widening the Oued river-bed segments near Ambouli 
quarter that have been narrowed as a result of sedimentation and encroachments. 
 
2. 
Rehabilitation of Roads and Drainage Infrastructure: Carrying out of a series of 
works including: (i) reconstruction and repairs to the segments of the inner-city roads 
destroyed or partially damaged as a result of the floods; (ii) reconstruction and repairs to 
the segments of the regional/inter-city highways that were destroyed or partially damaged 
as a result of the floods; and (iii) repairing and cleaning up the storm-water drainage 
channels that were damaged and/or clogged in the aftermath of the floods. 
 
3. 
Rehabilitation of Schools: Carrying out of a series of school rehabilitation works 
including replacement of damaged furniture, equipment and teaching material damaged 
by the floods. 
 
4.
 
Rehabilitation of Health Centers: Carrying out of a series of health centers 
rehabilitation work including: (i) repair of physical damages to buildings; and  
(ii) replacement of damaged furniture and medical equipment damaged by the floods. 
 
5. 
Rehabilitation of Water infrastructure: Carrying out of a series of work for the  
rehabilitation of water supply infrastructures, including: (i) acquisition of spare parts and 
products needed to replace damaged critical components of the water production and 
distribution systems, and (ii) acquisition of spare parts and products needed to provide 
urgent O&M activities, such as the chlorination of water or the repair of leaks. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
Part B
:
Delivery of Basic Infrastructure Services to the Resettlement  Zone in PK12
1. 
Provision of basic access to potable water through the delivery of several 
appropriately located public standpipes, which were identified by the populations as 
critical for their livelihood in the new site. 
 
2. 
Construction of pit latrines on the plots allocated to the resettled population to 
improve sanitary conditions. 
 
Part C
:
Technical Advisory Services for Disaster Prevention and Management
1. 
Provision of advisory services for technical design studies and construction 
supervision of rehabilitation activities. 
 
2. 
Provision of training and capacity building of the DMU.   
 
Part D
:
Project Management and Implementation Assistance
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the Project.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by  March 31, 2007. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$600,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.   
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
Page  19
-
17
-
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
or the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of  
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  20
-
18
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account, as the case 
may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Financing Agreement to the extent and 
subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
 
2. 
Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development 
Financing Agreement to which the Financing is made.” 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General 
Conditions apply, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time. Development Financing Agreement includes these 
General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11of 
 
Section 2.01, and paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as 
paragraphs 16 through 18 accordingly: 
 
“12. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
 
“13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Borrower to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited.” 
 
“14. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the 
Grant.” 
Page  22
-
20
-
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account (or, where the context so 
requires, either of the Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
 
3. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and  
Article IX. 
 
4. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 
the heading of Article III, 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
 
5. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is modified to read “Development Financing Agreement”. 
 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts   
 
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit Account and 
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower as provided 
in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower 
as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.” 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Financing Agreement”. 
 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay all amounts required to be paid 
by it under the Development Financing Agreement in the 
currency specified in such agreement or in such other eligible 
Page  23
-
21
-
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay 
under the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower.” 
 
8. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The words “development credit” in Section 6.02(a)(ii) are deleted. 
 
(b) 
The words “loan or guarantee” in Section 6.02(a)(iii) are deleted. 
 
(c) 
The words “development credit” and the word “loan”, wherever used in 
Section 6.02(c), are deleted. 
 
9. 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the 
several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after 
the date of such cancellation.” 
 
10. 
Section 7.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The words “principal or interest or any other amount” in Section 7.01(b) 
are modified to read “any amount”. 
 
(b) 
The words “development credit” in Section 7.01(b)(i) are deleted. 
 
(c) 
The words “loan or guarantee” in Section 7.01(b)(ii) are deleted. 
 
11. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under 
the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without deduction 
for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower.”
Page  24
-
22
-
