                                           Document o f
                                         The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                         Report No. 36599    - DJ




                                        PROJECT PAPER


                                              FORA


                     PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                          INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR 1.4 MILLION


                              (US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                              TO THE REPUBLIC OFDJIBOUTI


            FOR A FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                          January 9,2007




SustainableDevelopment
MiddleEast and NorthAfrica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                   THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
        FLOODEMERGENCY REHABILITATIONPROJECT



                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             Exchange Rate Effective: September 15, 2006
               Currency Unit = FDJ (Franc Djiboutien)
                         FDJ 1 = US$0.00563
                         US$l.OO = FDj 177.77

                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                             Metric System

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1- December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADETIP    Agence Djiboutienne d'Ex6cution des Travaux Publics
AfDB      African Development Bank
CQ        Consultant's Qualifications
DAI       Directionde 1'Assainissement et des Infrastructures, MoH
DE        Direction de I'Equipement, Ministeredes Travaux Publics
EDD       Electricit6 de Djibouti
FEW       Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
I A S     ImplementingAgencies
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
MOA       MinistryofAgriculture, Livestock and Sea
MoC       MinistryofCommunications
MoE       MinistryofEducation
MoF       MinistryofFinance
M o H     MinistryofHousing, Urbanism,Environment andTerritorialPlanning
M o I     MinistryofInterior andDecentralization
MOTE      MinistryofTransport and Equipment
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
ONED      Office National des Eaux de Djibouti
PCR       Project Completion Report
Plus      Project ImplementationUnits
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights


                    Vice President: DanielaGressani
                 Country Director: EmmanuelMbi
          Sector DirectorManager: Inger Andersed Hedi Larbi
               Task Team Leader:     Anthony G. Bigio

                        THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
             FLOODEMERGENCYREHABILITATION PROJECT




                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




Project paper data sheet                                            1


I.Introduction                                                      2


11. Background andRationalefor Additional Financing                 2
   inthe amount of US$2.0m

111. ProposedChanges                                                4


IV. Consistencywith CAS                                             5


V. Economic Analysis of FinancingGap                                6


VI. Expected Outcomes                                               7


VII. Benefits and Risks                                             7


VIII. Financial Terms and Conditions For The Additional Financing   8


IX. Project Team                                                    9

                          THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
              FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATIONPROJECT

                                         1

                             PROJECTPAPERDATA     SHEET



1Date:   September 15,2006                 Team Leader: Anthony G.Bigio
                                           Sector Director: Inger Andersen
 Project Name: FloodEmergency              Sector Manager: Hedi Larbi
 RehabilitationProject (Supplemental)      Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi
                                           EnvironmentalCategory: B




 Annual            0.85          2.15     I    2.0             2.5         0.96
 Cumulative                      3.OO          5.0             7.5         8.46




 Have these been approved by Bankmanagement?




 For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 2.0



                  Source                     Local      I    Foreign    1  Total

                           THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
               FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                              2

I.Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional grant o f SDR 1,400,000 (US$2.0 million equivalent) to the Republic o f
Djibouti for the Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project (FEW), P089968, Credit 3977-
DJI and Grant H-123-DJI.


2. The proposed additional grant would help finance the costs overruns associated with
the reconstruction o f the Ambouli Dike (the main infrastructure to protect the city o f
Djibouti from further floods) and o f some o f the roads damaged by the floods, and the
related project management fees o f the implementingagency.

3. Because o f the emergency nature of the FEW, the technical design and specifications
o f the dike were prepared after appraisal, and the updated estimated cost for its
reconstruction has increased significantly. Estimates for the road rehabilitation works
have also increased, mainly because o f the increasing oil prices, which contribute
significantly to the construction costs. About half o f the roads damaged by the floods and
included in the Project's original scope o f work would not be rehabilitated under the
project because o f estimated cost overruns.


11. BackgroundandRationalefor Additional Financingin the amount of US$2.0m

4. Djibouti's natural environment i s prone to catastrophic events, ranging from recumng
floods due to the proximity to the Ethiopian highlands and the lack o f watershed
management, to periodic draughts that exacerbate the permanent water scarcity. Major
flooding in particular has a cyclical nature, with an average recurrence o f ten years. As
the capital city o f Djibouti i s built around the estuary delta o f the Oued Ambouli and
much o f it on reclaimed land, it is particularly vulnerable to such recurring episodes.

5. After the latest, devastating floods o f April 11-13, 2004 hit the city, the World Bank
fielded an urgent identification-appraisal mission in June 2004 which took stock o f the
damages and through consultations with the various public departments agreed on the key
objectives for an emergency rehabilitation operation. This was rapidly prepared and
approved by the Board o f Directors on September 2, 2004. The Djibouti Flood
Emergency RehabilitationProject (FEW) Financial Agreement was signed on October 2,
2004 for a total amount o f US$ 6.46m equivalent, with a credit component o f US$ 3.23m
equivalent, and a grant component of US$ 3.23m equivalent. The project became
effective on January 25, 2005, although its implementationby Government and ADETIP
already started inNovember 2004.

6. The development objective o f the FEW i s to carry out the rehabilitation and recovery
of the economic and social assets damaged by the April 2004 floods. The FEW project
also aims to improve living conditions in the resettlement zone to which government i s

                                                3

7. relocating the families whose housing in the flood-prone area have been destroyed,
through delivery o f basic infrastructure services. Finally, the FEW plans to build the
capacity for long-term disaster prevention and management, and support employment
generation for the low-income population, especially from the affected areas, through
reliance, where feasible, on labor intensive works.

8. The rationale for the additional financing i s related to the critical importance o f the
Ambouli Dike for the protection against future floods o f the city as a whole, o f human
lives, and of social and economic assets, and o f the road network within the city for the
good functioning o f local economic activities. The project comprises the following four
components, o fwhich the first and the last would benefit from the additional financing:

      Rehabilitation o f economic and social infrastructure, as follows:

      Rehabilitation o f flood protection structures: including 1) rebuildingthe destroyed
      flood protection dike protectingthe Ambouli quarter; and 2) rehabilitatingwidening
      stretches o f the Oued riverbed near Ambouli quarter that have been narrowed as a
      result o f sedimentation and encroachments;

      Rehabilitation o f roads and drainage infrastructure: including 1) reconstruction and
      repairs to the segments o f the inner-city roads that were destroyed or partially
      damaged as a result o f the floods; 2) reconstruction and repairs to the segments of
      the regionalhnter-city highways that were destroyed or partially damaged as a result
      o f the floods; and 3) repairing and cleaning up the storm-water drainage channels
      that were damaged and/or clogged inthe aftermath of the floods;

      Rehabilitation o f schools: including replacement of damaged furniture, equipment
      and teaching material damaged bythe floods;

      Rehabilitation o f health centers: including 1) repair of physical damages to
      buildings; and 2) replacement o fdamaged furniture and medical equipment; and

      Rehabilitation o f water supply infrastructure: including 1) purchase o f spare parts
      and products needed to replace damaged critical components o f the water
      production and distribution systems, and 2) purchase o f spare parts and products
      needed to provide urgent O&M activities, such as the chlorination o f water, the
      repair o f leaks, etc.

      Delivery o f basic infrastructure services to the resettlement zone in PK12:
      including: 1) providing basic access to potable water through the delivery o f several
      appropriately located public standpipes; 2) the construction of pit latrines for the
      houses of the resettled population to improve sanitary conditions.

      Technical assistance and consultancy services for disaster prevention and
     management in the short and long-term: including a) consultancy services for the
      supervision o f rehabilitation activities, and b) training and capacity building o f the

                                              4

     "Disaster Management Unit," a newly established yet poorly equipped department
     under the Ministry of Interior whose mandate encompasses the important tasks of
     preventive and curative disaster management efforts.

(iv) Project management and implementation assistance: Implementing agency ADETIP
     will be remunerated for project management.

9. As o f September 2006, the implementation o f the FEW i s progressing satisfactorily
and the project is progressing towards its stated development objectives, and the full
amount o f the Grant component has been already disbursed. The good performanceof the
project so far i s a sound basis to assume that the additional financing would be invested
effectively to achieve the project's stated goals.

10. Many reconstruction activities have already been completed (schools, health care
centers), and all supplies and equipment for the water infrastructure have been delivered.
The two damaged bridges on the inter-city highways and the storm-water drainage
channels have been repaired, while the reconstruction o f three inner-city roads i s on-
going. Efforts by Government to provide compensation and accommodation to the
victims o f the April 2004 floods are on-going, with construction o f housing units and o f
community facilities (under separate financing) inthe resettlement area o f PK12 and the
constructiono fpit latrines and of standpipes under the project.

11. The studies for the creation o f a national disaster management department have been
carried out, and support for its organization is on-going. Socio-economic, resettlement,
environmental and engineering studies have been also carried out for the reconstruction
o fthe Ambouli Dike, the main infrastructure to be rehabilitated under the project.

12. Procurement o f goods and services and financial management have been monitored
closely by the project team, via the periodic and regular supervision o f related activities
by specialized team members. Procurement has been consistently rated as Satisfactory,
and International Competitive Bidding, as stipulated in the project's procurement plan,
would apply to all works to be carried out under the Additional Financing. Financial
Management has been rated as Moderately Satisfactory, primarily on account o f delays in
the submission o f financial quarterly reports to IDA certified by the Auditor. Credit
covenants have been so far complied with, and as stipulated inthe Financial Agreement,
an accountant who i s fully dedicated to the project has been hired by the implementing
agency. The 2005 audit report by the independent Auditor certified the financial
statements o f the project with no reserves.


111. ProposedChanges

13. The project's development objective, design and scope would remain substantially
unchanged. The reconstruction o f the Ambouli Dike had been included in the project
description and financing as o f appraisal, as well as the rehabilitation o f the urban roads
that would require additional financing.

                                              3



14. The Government has approved an integrated watershed management scheme for the
entire Oued Ambouli that is based on : a) the reconstruction and core strengtheningo f the
Ambouli Dike for a total length o f approximately 2.2 kilometers as the main
infrastructure to protect the city against future floods; b) the construction o f a multi-
purpose dam upstream from the city in the site o f Nagad and o f a spill-over canal on the
Oued Douda; c) the management o f the upstream Ambouli watershed via multiple small
rural water retention dikes; and d) the installationo f a flood alert system.

15. Given the fact that the design and construction o f the multi-purpose dam, to be
financed by the European Commission, might take a few years to be completed, the
Government has expressed the request to IDA inNovember 2005 for the Ambouli Dike
to be designed and rebuilt so as to withhold a possible water flow of up to 1,500 cubic
meters per second. This would protect the city against flood levels that have historically
occurred every eighty years, and thus the reconstruction of the Ambouli Dikewould hlly
meet the project's development objectives.

16. Feasibility studies have shown that the widening or dredging o f the Ambouli Oued
riverbed would have negative social impacts on the livelihoods o f the populations
employed in the vegetable gardens located in the river bed itself, and negative
environmental impacts on this unique green zone in the midst o f an otherwise very dry
and barren city. Consequently, this sub-component of the project has been dropped, with
the exceptionof the dredgingaround the main bridge at the down-stream end o f the Dike,
to ensure an appropriate flow o f water through all o f its openings in the eventuality o f a
flood. On the other hand, the detailed engineering design o f the dike reconstruction
foresees the construction o f solid core reinforcements, or "spikes",        to increase the
resistance o f the structure to flood water pressure, which will be integrated in the main
body o f the dike.

17. The three roads to be still rehabilitated under the project are the Airport Road, that
connects the city to this important international transport facility, and two other roads
located in the industrial part o f the city, critical to the movement o f goods and the
provision o f services.

18. On account o f the additional financing proposed, which corresponds to about 30
percent o f the original project financing, and in view o f the complexity of the
infrastructureworks to be still camed out, the project closing date would be revised from
September 30,2007 to September 30,2008.


IV. Consistencywith CAS

19. The flood Emergency RehabilitationProject is part of the CAS-supportedoperations
that are aligned with the PRSP pillar o f human resource development and poverty
alleviation, and i s explicitly mentioned inthe CAS approved on March 1, 2005 under C3
"providing support to the poor victims o f the flood". Reconstructing the key social and

                                             6

20. economic infrastructure o f the capital city damaged by the April 2004 floods as well
as improving the country's preparedness for disaster prevention and management, are
considered part o f the Government's efforts aimed at human resource development and
poverty alleviation. Therefore the proposed Additional Financing i s fully consistent with
the CAS.


V. Economic Analysisof FinancingGap

21.   At appraisal, the costs for the reconstruction of the Ambouli Dike had been
calculated by the IDA mission in consultation with the responsible departments o f the
Ministry o f Public Works, on the basis o f average construction costs current in Djibouti
in2004. The figures of US$ 750,000 and of US$ 400,000 had been established for the
reconstruction o f the Ambouli dike and for the widening and dredging of the river-bed,
respectively, for a total o fUS$ 1,150,000 for these two sub-components.

22. The detailed engineering design o f the works for the reconstruction of the dike,
completed inJune 2006, sets instead the cost at US$ 2,050,000 for the dike itself, and at
US$ 450,000 for the "spikes", for a total o f US$2,500,000. These higher construction
costs also take into account the higher dike levels requested by Government inNovember
2005. There is no allocation for the dredging o f the river-bed, which has been dropped.
The financing gap on this sub-component is therefore o fUS$ 1,350,000.

23. The original appraisal estimate for the rehabilitation o f the seven urban roads was
approximately o f US$ 1,750,000. A first contract for the rehabilitation o f three roads has
been awarded for an amount o f US$ 1,800,000. A fourth road has been financed by the
European Commission, andthus excluded from the project's scope o f work. For the three
more roads to be rehabilitatedunder the project, basedon the construction costs resulting
from the ICB tender, the estimate is o f US$ 600,000, and the cost overrun for the full
implementationofthis sub-component is therefore o fUS$ 650,000.

24. These cost overrun estimates include the project management fees to be paid to
ADETIP, the implementing agency, inthe order of 6 percent o fcommitments, as per the
Memorandum of Understandingsigned between the Government and A D E T P in August
2004, and reflected in the Project Agreement between ADETIP and the International
DevelopmentAssociation, signed on October 2, 2004.

 Project sub-components             Appraisal estimate  Current estimate   Financinggap
 Reconstruction Ambouli D i k e


     0   Mainbodyofdike                        750,000         2,050,000
    0    Riverbeddredging                      400,000
         Reinforcementspikes                                     450,000

 Sub-total                                   1,150,000         2,500,000          1,350,000
 Reconstruction of urban roads

                                             7

                                              950,000           1,800,000
                                              430,000
         Second set o f roads                 370,000            600,000

 Sub-total                                   1,750,000         2,400,000           650,000
I TOTAL FINANCING GAP

25. A request for additional financing to compensate for these gaps was submittedby the
Government inNovember 2005, for an amount o f US$ 1.5m.The subsequent preparation
of the detailed engineering studies has hrther increased the estimate o f the dike
reconstruction costs. The overall cost overrun and financing gap have now been
established at US$2.0m, which i s the amount o f the requested Additional Financing.

26. Given the emergency nature o f the project, no economic analysis had been carried
out at appraisal of the FEW, or o f its individual components. However, it should be
noted that the additional financing being considered is less than 20 percent o f the
estimated damages incurred on account o f the April 2004 floods as calculated by the
Government (over $ 1Om). Given the 10-year cyclical recurrence o f the floods in the
absence o f a flood protection structure, it is estimated that the value o f the additional
financing i s equal to the economic losses that would be incurred in the city over a period
o f two years.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

27. The work to be carried out with the additional financing would enable the project to
hlly meet its development objectives. Inview of the ability of the future Ambouli Dike
to protect the city against flooding for many decades, the protection o f the city's social
and economic assets would be assured. The rehabilitation o f the three roads would
complete the rehabilitation o f the social and economic infrastructure that had been
evaluated as critical to the well-being o f the city at appraisal. The same indicators as
established at appraisal would be used to measure the outcomes o f the project.


VII. BenefitsandRisks

28. The benefits o f the additional financing of the project would be the ones o f enabling
it to complete the hllreconstruction o f the Ambouli Dike, thus providing appropriate
protection against future floods, and of the urban roads critical for the life of the city.
Given the emergency nature o f the operation, which was processed under OP 8.50
(Emergency Recovery Assistance) and the need o f a rapid intervention, an Environmental
Assessment as well as the determination o f the applicability o f OP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement) were not undertaken prior to Board presentation. In accordance with OP
4.01 section 13 on emergency recovery projects, a waiver to this effect was approved on
July 2, 2004 by the Managing Director..An ISDS with the description o f the potential
environmental and social impacts, to be eventually identified and addressed during
project implementation, was filed inJuly 2004 prior to Boardpresentation.

                                              8

29. As the flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project is primarily geared towards the
rehabilitation of existing social and economic infrastructure, its negative environmental
and social impacts are considered by definition minimal. Some general project risks and
mitigation measures had been identified during appraisal o f the FEW, and have been
described in the related MOP. There are no envisaged negative environmental impacts
related to the rehabilitation o f the roads.

30. Specific environmental and social risks and mitigation measures related to the
reconstruction o f the Ambouli Dike have on the other hand been detailed in an
Environmental Management Plan and in a Resettlement Action Plan submitted by the
Borrower to IDA in July 2006. These documents have been reviewed for compliance
with O.P. 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and with 0.P 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement, and have been considered fully satisfactory by the Regional Safeguards
Team in July and September 2006. The most significant risks and mitigation measures
are the following:

        The relocation o f the households living on the river-bank: 127 households have
        been found to be living within the area o f the dike with no title or land occupancy
        permits. They will be moved to the PK12 neighborhood as per the Resettlement
        Action Plan submitted by the Government to IDA. The document has been
        reviewed for its full compliance with O.P. 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and
        approved by the MNA Social Safeguards Team which found the document to be
        o f very highquality.

        The possible impact o f the floods on the opposite (left) river-bank: given that the
        right bank will be fully protected against a possible flood by the dike, waters
        would further invade the left bank, which is largely uninhabited. As mitigation
        measures, dredging will take place in proximity o f the openings o f the concrete
        bridge downstream from the dike, and a flood alarm system will be put in place,
        under separate financing.

        The possible floods during the reconstruction o f the Ambouli Dike: the critical
        time of the year for flash-floods .in Djibouti is the month o f April. As the
        reconstruction o f the dike will be taking place over the full course o f calendar
        2007, a provisional alert system will be put in place and operated by the
        Contractor so as to be able to alert the population in the eventuality o f a flash-
        flood while the construction o f the dike is on-going.

        The lack o f maintenance over time which could weaken the Dike: water erosion
        andthe impact of vehicles, cattle and people could weaken the surface o fthe dike
        and its resistance to water erosion. As mitigation measures, the dike design
        includes a stone surface layer; specific passage-ways have been included for
        vehicle, animal and human transit; and periodic maintenance will be carried out
        by responsible Governmentdepartments,which have committed to this function.

                                    9

VIII. Project Team

Task Team Leader       Anthony G. Bigio, Sr. Urban Specialist, MNSIF
Hydraulics Engineer    Edouard Motte, Consultant, M N S I F
Social Safeguards      Yvette Djachechi, Sr. Social Development Spec., AFTS3
Legal                  Kishor Uprety, Sr. Counsel, LEGMS
Procurement            Abdulgabbar A1 Qattab, Procurement Specialist, MNAPR
Disbursement           Hassine Hedda, Finance Analyst, LOAG2
Financial Management   Mohamed Mehdi, Consultant, MNAFM
Team Assistance        Natasha Hafez, Team Assistant, MNSIF


