                                      Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                        Report No. : ICR00001239




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-39770 IDA-H1230 IDA-H2760)

                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.2 MILLION


                                        AND A

                                       GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

                                        FOR A

               FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                 October 7, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         Currency Unit = Djibouti Franc (DJF)
              Exchange Rate at Appraisal            US$1.00 = 175 DJF
              (April 26, 1999)
              Exchange Rate at ICR                  US$1.00 = 176DJF
              (September 2009)

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADDS     National Social Development Agency (Agence Djiboutienne de Développement Social)
ADETIP   National Executing Agency for Public Works (Agence Djiboutienne d'Exécution des
         Travaux d'Intérêt Public)
AFD      French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
AfDB     African Development Bank
AGETIP   Agency for Public Works (Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Intérêt Public)
DINAS    National Bureau of Statistics (at appraisal)
DISED    National Bureau of Statistics (at ICR)
EU       European Union
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GFDRR    Global Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction
INDH     National Inititiative for Human Development
IsDB     Islamic Development Bank
ISR      Implementation and Status Results Report
MoP      Memorandum of the President
NGOs     Non Governmental Organizations
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PDSTP    Social Development and Public Works Project (Projet de Développement Social et des
         Travaux d'intérêt Public)
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SEGRC    Executive Secretariat for Risk and Disaster Management
SF       Social Fund
TA       Technical Annex
UN       United Nations


                            Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                          Country Director: A. David Craig
                           Sector Manager: Anna Bjerde
                      Project Team Leader: Alexandra Ortiz
                         ICR Team Leader: Alexandra Ortiz
                                                     REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

                                  Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Investment Project



                                                                 CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                      Page No.


A. Basic Information .....................................................................................................................  
B. Key Dates..................................................................................................................................  
C. Ratings Summary ......................................................................................................................  
D. Sector and Theme Codes ..........................................................................................................  
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................................  
F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................................  
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...................................................................................  
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................................  
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................................  
Section 1: Project context, development objectives and design .................................................. 1 
Section 2: Key Factors affecting implementation and outcomes ................................................ 3 
Section 3: Assessment of outcomes............................................................................................. 7 
Section 4: Assessment of risk to development outcome ............................................................. 9 
Section 5: Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance ..................................................... 10 
Section 6: Lessons learned ........................................................................................................ 12 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing....................................................................................... 13 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 16 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................ 17 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 18 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................. 19 
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................... 36 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................... 37 
MAP IBRD 33524
A. Basic Information
                                                                            DJ-FLOOD
Country:                Djibouti                  Project Name:             EMERGENCY
                                                                            REHABILITATION
                                                                            IDA-39770,IDA-
Project ID:             P089968                   L/C/TF Number(s):         39771,IDA-
                                                                            H1230,IDA-H2760
ICR Date:               10/09/2009                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                            DJIBOUTI
Original Total
                        XDR 4.4M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 5.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 5.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 ADETIP (Agence Djiboutienne d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public)
 ADDS (Agence Djiboutienne de Developpement Social)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/02/2004      Effectiveness:             01/25/2005         01/25/2005
Appraisal:             06/07/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/02/2004      Mid-term Review:           03/31/2006
                                       Closing:                   09/30/2007         03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:



                                                  i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                        25                  25
General education sector                                                10                  10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   20                  20
Health                                                                   5                     5
Roads and highways                                                      40                  40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                    14                  14
Natural disaster management                                             29                  29
Other urban development                                                 14                  14
Rural services and infrastructure                                       14                  14
Water resource management                                               29                  29

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Shamshad Akhtar                      Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:            A. David Craig                       Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:              Anna M. Bjerde                       Emmanuel Forestier
Project Team Leader:         Alexandra Ortiz                      Anthony G. Bigio
ICR Team Leader:             Alexandra Ortiz
ICR Primary Author:          Jerome F. Chevallier
                             Salim Rouhana




                                                    ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The main project objective is the rehabilitation and recovery of the economic and social
assets damaged by the April 2004 floods. In addition, the project aims to improve the
living conditions in the resettlement zone to which Government has relocated the families
whose housing was destroyed in the flood-prone area through delivery of basic
infrastructure services. Finally, the project plans to build the capacity for long-term
disaster prevention and management, and support employment generation for the low-
income population, especially from the affected areas through reliance, where feasible, on
labor intensive works.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Rehabilitation and recovery of economic and social assets damaged by the floods
                                                                            Rehabilitation and
                                           Rehabilitation and               recovery of roads,
                                           recovery of                      drainage, schools,
                Damages caused by
Value                                      selected                         health centers and
                floods as estimated in
quantitative or                            infrastructure and               water infrastructure
                Government's and Bank
Qualitative)                               services to be                   and Dike
                assessment
                                           rehabilitated under              construction
                                           the project                      successfully
                                                                            completed
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                       03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% of infrastructure rebuilt
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Improvement in the living conditions in the resettlement area
                                           360 families
                                                                            360 families
                                           displaced by flood
                                                                            displaced by flood
                                           and resettled
                                                                            and resettled
                                           because of the
Value           Resettlement area in PK                                     because of the dike,
                                           reconstruction of
quantitative or 12 devoid of any                                            settled with
                                           the dike settled
Qualitative)    infrastructure or facility                                  occupancy permits,
                                           with occupancy
                                                                            access to water
                                           permits, access to
                                                                            standpipes and pit
                                           water standpipes
                                                                            latrines
                                           and pit latrines
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                       03/31/2009



                                               iii
Comments        100% of families resettled. This includes approx. 240 families affected by the
(incl. %        flood and 120 affected by the dike construction and resettled later on. The
achievement)    housing units surpassed the needs of the resettlement
Indicator 3 :   Protection of the city from recurrent floods
                                           Dike reconstructed
Value           Ambouli embankment                                            Dike reconstructed
                                           and provided with
quantitative or dike destroyed by the                                         and provided with
                                           erosion-control
Qualitative)    April 2004 floods                                             erosion control
                                           structures
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                         03/31/2009
Comments
                The dike is expected to protect the city up to a 1500m3/s flood intensity provided
(incl. %
                it is well maintained.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Rehabilitation of Ambouli Pompage flood protection structures
                                                                            Successful
Value                                      Reconstruction of
                Flood protection dike                                       reconstruction of
(quantitative                              Km. 2.5 of flood
                destroyed by floods                                         Km. 2.5 of flood
or Qualitative)                            protection dike
                                                                            protection dike
Date achieved 04/13/2004                   09/30/2008                       03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Dike was completed in March 2009
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Rehabilitation of roads, water supply and drainage infrastructure
                                                                            Successful
                                           Rehabilitation of
                                                                            Rehabilitation of 14
                                           14 paved roads, 2
                                                                            paved roads, 2
                14 paved roads, 2 bridges, bridges, 5 Km. of
                                                                            bridges, 5 Km. of
                5 Km. of stormwater        stormwater
Value                                                                       storm-water
                channels, 500 manholes, channels, 500
(quantitative                                                               channels, 500
                and water purification and manholes, and
or Qualitative)                                                             manholes, and
                distribution materials     water purification
                                                                            water purification
                damaged by the floods      and distribution
                                                                            and distribution
                                           materials damaged
                                                                            materials damaged
                                           by the floods
                                                                            by the floods
Date achieved 04/13/2004                   09/30/2008                       03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% completion
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Rehabilitation of schools and health centers
                1 secondary, 7 primary Provision of civil                   Provision of civil
Value
                schools and 4 health care works, furniture                  works, furniture
(quantitative
                centers damaged by the and medical                          and medical
or Qualitative)
                floods                     equipment for the                equipment for the


                                                iv
                                           health care centers                  health care centers
                                           and of equipment,                    and of equipment,
                                           furniture and                        furniture and
                                           textbooks for the                    textbooks for the
                                           schools                              schools
Date achieved 04/12/2004                   09/30/2008                           03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% completion
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Delivery of latrines and water supply to the PK12 neighborhood
                                           Construction of
                About 360 families have
                                           400 pit-latrines, 3
                been displaced by the                                           Successful
Value                                      Km. of water
                floods and dike                                                 completion of 300
(quantitative                              distribution
                reconstruction, and were                                        latrines and
or Qualitative)                            network and 4
                to be relocated in a non-                                       networks.
                                           standpipes
                serviced (PK12) area
                                           operational
Date achieved 04/12/2004                   09/30/2007                           03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Only 300 latrines built. The amount is sufficient for the resettled population
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Improvement of disaster prevention and management capacity
Value           Disaster Management set- DM Executive                           DM Executive
(quantitative   up conceived in June       Secretariat                          Secretariat
or Qualitative) 2004                       operational                          operational
Date achieved 06/30/2004                   09/30/2008                           03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Activities were fully completed
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     10/22/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/20/2004          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     04/04/2005      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               0.85
  4     07/22/2005      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.09
  5     12/27/2005      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.70
  6     05/02/2006      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               2.38
  7     07/03/2006          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      2.95
  8     12/05/2006          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      4.31
  9     02/16/2007          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      4.54
 10     07/21/2007          Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               5.28
                                                           Moderately
 11     02/12/2008      Moderately Satisfactory                                              6.09
                                                         Unsatisfactory



                                                  v
 12    06/28/2008   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory   6.71
 13    12/26/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory          8.53


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
Section 1: Project context, development objectives and design

Context at appraisal

Djibouti is a small and poorly endowed country, with a service-based economy. Its population was
estimated at 660,000 in 2004, two thirds of which living in Djibouti city, the capital. Its economy is based
on revenues and rents generated directly and indirectly from the activities of the port (managed by Dubai
Ports International since 2001) and related business. It also relies on the rental of military bases to France
since independence in 1977, and more recently to the US and Germany, including the services associated
with these bases. The service sector in the economy accounts for about 70 percent of GDP. High wage
rates in the formal sector, including public administration, are a major constraint to growth and job
creation.

During the late 1980s and most of the 1990s, domestic and regional military strife led to serious
macroeconomic imbalances and weakened economic activity in Djibouti. A prolonged civil war disrupted
vital economic sectors and imposed a heavy cost on the budget. War in neighboring countries led to a
large influx of refugees, putting an extra burden on already stretched public services. GDP growth
averaged less than one percent during that period, compared with an average population growth rate of
2.8 percent per annum, further deepening poverty. In 1996, Djibouti initiated a stabilization program,
which was not sustained. A second program in 1999 was more successful. Fiscal and structural reforms
succeeded in halting the deteriorating macroeconomic situation and reversing the build up of domestic
arrears. These reforms included civil service downsizing and pension reform, entrusting the management
of the port and airport facilities to a private international investor, and strengthening public expenditure
institutions.

Despite its high per capita income (US$920 in 2004), Djibouti had an extremely high incidence of
poverty (42 percent absolute and 75 percent relative poverty rates), and a very low level of human
development. Unemployment, which was estimated at 52 percent, contributed to about 65 percent to
extreme poverty. In 2004, Djibouti ranked 157th out of 174 countries on the UNDP Human Development
Index. About 50 percent of children did not attend school, and more than 20 percent of those enrolled did
not complete the six years of primary education. Life expectancy was estimated at 49 years, one of the
shortest in the world, and infant mortality, at 103 per 1,000. The immunization rate was only 45 percent,
and malnutrition was a serious problem, with indications that 14 percent of children under the age of five
suffered from acute malnutrition, and 31 percent from chronic malnutrition.

Djibouti is prone to recurrent natural disasters, namely floods and droughts. Between 1977 and
2004, the country was hit by 6 devastating floods and 5 severe droughts, each of which affected over
90,000 persons. The floods on April 13 2004 killed an estimated 100 persons and affected over 100,000
persons. Flash floods washed away about 700 houses and shacks located in and on the banks of the
Ambouli River, which separates Djibouti City in two parts. Overall, the floods' damages have been
estimated by government at about DJF 1.76 billion (US$l0.05 million). The Djebel and Ambouli districts
were the hardest hit areas, with most casualties occurring among the low-income population who lived in
makeshift housing on squatted land on the Ambouli Oued banks, and among the population engaged in
agricultural activities and whose houses were located within the river bed. The floods broke a protection
dyke and caused the overflowing of many parts of the drainage network (which is also used to dispose of
used water) and also septic tanks in these districts, which created a health hazard. They also swept away
parts of the railway line between Djibouti and Addis-Ababa, through which a large part of Djibouti's food
requirements are imported, and caused the collapse of a key bridge on the road to Ethiopia.



                                                      1
The Country Assistance Strategy for 2001-04 focused on helping the Government reduce poverty
through enhancing capital development, including interventions in the education and health sectors and a
public works and community development program, and restoring growth, including support to
improving competitiveness in a stable environment and rehabilitation of port-related infrastructure and
services. Djibouti adopted its first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (G-I) in May 2004. It aimed at: (i)
strengthening competitiveness for higher and sustainable growth; (ii) accelerating human development;
(iii) promoting regional and local development to reach out to poor urban neighborhoods, nomads, and
isolated rural communities; and (iv) improving governance and public sector management.

The rehabilitation of the damaged social and economic infrastructure and restoration of services to pre-
flood levels represented a severe strain on Djibouti's finances (roughly 5 percent of total public
expenditures in the 2004 budget). Financing these expenditures from local resources would divert funds
from core poverty reduction programs. It was highly unlikely that all services would be restored to their
pre-flood conditions rapidly. The Government requested the donor community to provide assistance and
IDA to take the leadership in the rehabilitation efforts.

Original project objectives and key indicators

The main objective of the proposed project was the rehabilitation and recovery of the economic and social
assets damaged by the April 2004 floods. The project aimed also (i) to improve living conditions in the
resettlement zone where affected families had been relocated; and (ii) to build the capacity for long-term
disaster prevention and management, and support employment generation for the low-income population,
especially from the affected areas through reliance, where feasible, on labor intensive works.

A list of 22 indicators was provided in the technical annex of the Memorandum of the President for
the proposed project. They were mostly focused on project implementation aspects and physical
achievements. A few of them were concerned with the number of people who would benefit from
rehabilitated facilities.

Main beneficiaries were the people directly and indirectly affected by the floods. In addition, the
population at large would benefit from improved infrastructure and facilities. The rehabilitation of schools
would benefit thousands of students. The rehabilitation of health centers would cater to 80,000 to 100,000
people. The rehabilitation of the water supply facilities would benefit an estimated population of 275,000.

Original components

The project included four components: (i) rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure; (ii)
delivery of basic social services in the resettlement zone, known as PK 12; (iii) technical assistance and
consultant services for disaster prevention and management; and (iv) project management and
implementation assistance. The first component included five sub-components: rehabilitation of flood
protection structures (flood protection dike and widening the river bed); rehabilitation of roads and
drainage infrastructure (inner city roads, regional highways, storm water drainage channels);
rehabilitation of seven primary schools and one secondary school (including equipment, furniture and
teaching materials); rehabilitation of four health centers; and rehabilitation of water supply facilities.

Revised components

Additional financing in an amount of SDR 1.4 million was extended in 2007 to cover the higher cost
than initially estimated for the dike and additional road work. The components were not modified.




                                                     2
Section 2: Key Factors affecting implementation and outcomes

Project preparation, design and quality at entry

Soundness of the background analysis

Immediately after the disaster, the authorities activated their national crisis management plan, known as
Plan ORSEC, to coordinate relief and assistance efforts. Government agencies, in partnership with the
private sector, civil society organizations, donor agencies and the French and US troops stationed in
Djibouti, focused their efforts along three axes: (i) the provision of immediate food and non-food
assistance to the displaced families, (ii) the cleanup of the damages in the flooded areas, and (iii) the
rehabilitation of critically affected infrastructure. Within a week, water, electricity and telephone services
were mostly restored, although some repairs were of a provisional nature. Traffic on the road to Ethiopia
resumed rapidly thanks to a bypass around the destroyed bridge. Many families took shelter with relatives.
The remaining 605 persons (about 120 families, including 466 Djiboutian citizens) were relocated to a
school, and then to the PK 12 site on the periphery of Djibouti city. A few days following the disaster, the
crisis committee estimated the damages at DJF 1.8 billion. The Government was swift and efficient in its
response to the disaster and the analysis of the situation and its consequences was sound.

The lessons learned from experience in the response to other natural disasters were incorporated in
the project design. The first one is to keep the project design as simple as possible. The second is to
ensure tight coordination among government agencies and with donors. The third one is to entrust project
management to an efficient organization, preferably with previous experience with Bank-financed
projects. Finally, the last lesson is the need to develop a specific and detailed implementation plan upfront
to avoid political pressures influencing the outcome of loosely defined components.

The Government requested Bank assistance for the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure. The
donor community was keen on the Bank playing a leadership role in the reconstruction effort. A Social
Development and Public Works project was being implemented with Bank support. It helped extend
economic and social infrastructure to poor communities, including road, drainage and water supply
network improvement, rehabilitation of health and social services, and preparation and implementation of
participatory community development plans. The project also helped build up the capacity of small
construction and service contractors. Providing assistance to Djibouti's reconstruction efforts was
important for enhancing trust in country relations.

Assessment of the project design

The project was well designed. It focused on reconstruction of key economic and social facilities,
delivering basic social services in the resettlement area, and strengthening flood protection structures in
the Ambouli river basin. It also was designed to help Djibouti build up capacity for the prevention and
management of natural disasters. Through ongoing projects, the Bank had developed good relations with
most agencies concerned. It was working closely with ADETIP, a public agency with solid experience in
contract management, which was implementing the Social Development and Public Works projects, in a
satisfactory manner. A Steering Committee chaired by the Prime Minister would coordinate and monitor
project implementation.

The project would have minimal negative social and environmental impacts, as it was designed to
rehabilitate existing economic and social infrastructure. At appraisal, it was estimated that the
reconstruction of the protection dike could involve the displacement of fewer than 200 residents. The
enlargement of the riverbed to restore its flood water drainage ability to an acceptable level could require
the elimination of agricultural plots, which had encroached on the public domain. When the project was
                                                     3
designed, it was not clear whether protection works would displace residents or agricultural activities. A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)1 would be prepared if needed, before carrying out the design studies for
the civil works. With the benefit of hindsight, it would have been advisable to include preparation of a
RAP as an initial step in the critical path for the reconstruction of the dike.

The Government was fully committed to the project. It had demonstrated its determination and
effectiveness in the early response to the disaster. It had been able to mobilize public agencies, the private
sector, civil society, donor agencies as well as the French and US troops stationed in Djibouti to provide
immediate relief and prepare the rehabilitation effort. The private sector and the Djiboutian society
demonstrated a strong sense of solidarity in the aftermath of the disaster. ADETIP had a good experience
in the development and strengthening of community-based associations through a project financed by
AFD, the French Development Agency.

Assessment of risks

Five risks were identified. The first three ones stemmed from lack of coordination among public
agencies and donors. Three ministries (the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Urban Development
and the Ministry of Public Works) had overlapping responsibilities in the rehabilitation of the Ambouli
river basin, and two other donors were involved in its financing, the European Union (EU) and the
African Development Bank (AfDB). The steering committee was expected to ensure close coordination
among public agencies and an agreement was reached with the two donors on a modus operandi. Delays
could occur in the development of infrastructure services to the resettlement area, if the Government did
not deliver the building materials on time. Funding for these materials had been mobilized from the
private sector, and the risk was considered low. Limited resettlement would be eventually required for the
construction of the protection dike. In that case appropriate compensation would be provided. Finally,
resettled families to PK 12 might decide to leave the area to squat in their previous location, which was
closer to the center of the city. This risk would be mitigated through careful integration of resettled people
in the sites and services area, which was under development prior to the floods, with donor assistance,
including the Bank and AFD. The return of displaced families to the Ambouli river bed and banks was a
major risk. It delayed reconstruction of the dike and is now an obstacle to the sustainability of the project.
This risk should have been better analyzed and mitigated.

Implementation

Signature of the financing agreement took place on October 2, 2004, one month after Board approval.
Effectiveness of the financing agreement was delayed, however. The special effectiveness condition, the
signing of an agreement between the Government of Djibouti and ADETIP, was met in late December
2004. Ratification of the financing agreement by Parliament took longer than expected. Eventually, the
financing agreement was declared effective on January 25, 2005. With the delay in effectiveness, the
project became a potential problem project, as Djibouti had the two country flags related to
macroeconomic management and country riskiness.

In the first year of project implementation, good progress was made in the rehabilitation of infrastructure
and facilities damaged by the floods. Good progress was also made in the development of 200 lots and
construction of 277 dwellings (called Gargaar city) in PK 12, most of which were for the victims of the
flood while others were for other families to be settled in that zone. Funds were mobilized from the
private sector and donors for that purpose for a total amount of DJF 262.5 million and efficiently
managed by the Housing Fund of the Ministry of Urban Development. On the other hand, the
Government postponed taking action on two key issues, which contributed to serious delays in project
implementation. The Government did not deliver occupancy permits to families displaced by the floods

1
    The RAP concerned only the families that had to be resettled because of the dike construction.

                                                            4
and relocated on the PK 12 site, and did not provide the precise numbers and names of displaced families.
The first action was a condition under the financing agreement for delivering basic services (latrines and
water supply) in the resettlement area.

In late 2004, a number of families (estimated at between 100 and 200) had moved back to the
Ambouli river banks. A resettlement action plan became necessary before the reconstruction of the
Ambouli dike could start. Initiation of the census and socio-economic study of families occupying the
banks of the Ambouli River was delayed, however. The resettlement action plan was eventually
completed and the contract for the reconstruction of the dike was awarded in December 2006.

In 2005, the Government approved an integrated watershed management scheme for the Ambouli
basin, including (i) the reconstruction and core strengthening of the Ambouli dike, as the main
infrastructure to protect the city against future floods; (ii) the construction of a multipurpose dam
upstream from the city and of a spill-over canal; (iii) the management of the upstream Ambouli watershed
via multiple small rural water retention dikes; and (iv) the installation of a flood alert system. As it
became clear, however, that the design and construction of the upstream dams would take several years to
be completed, in November 2005, the Government requested that the dike be designed so as to protect the
city against flood levels that had historically occurred every eighty years. This would entail a higher
construction cost, however.

In December 2006, the Bank gave its non-objection to the proposed contract with the lowest bidder for
the reconstruction of the Ambouli dike. It was expected at that time that the works would be completed in
November 2007. In February 2007, the Board approved a Management proposal for a SDR 1.4 million
additional financing to cover the higher cost than initially estimated for the reconstruction of the dike and
the inclusion of additional road work. In April 2007, the agreement for this additional financing was
signed. The closing date was extended by one year to September 30, 2008. The agreement became
effective in February 2008, however, due to delays in parliament ratification.

In February 2007, the contract with the contractor was cancelled because the contractor went
bankrupt. The second lowest bidder was selected. Eventually, the Bank gave its non objection to the new
contract in May 2007. Works would not actually start before September 2007, however. The amount of
the new contract was much higher than the previous one, by about US$1 million, which led to the
cancellation of the additional roadwork included in the additional financing agreement.

In November 2007, Parliament approved a law creating a new agency, ADDS (the Social
Development Agency), with the broad mandate of implementing all poverty reduction programs within
the framework of the newly approved National Initiative for Human Development (INDH). As a
consequence, ADETIP would be folded into the new agency. During the transition period, project
implementation slowed down, as ADETIP's management was mostly concerned with reorganization
issues. It became clear in 2008 that the construction of the dike would not be completed before September
30, 2008. The closing date was extended to March 31, 2009.

Supervision missions visited Djibouti twice a year. The mid-term review was initially planned for
March 2006. It did not take place, however, as there was an in depth mission to put together the additional
financing, which was eventually approved to cover expected cost overruns.

In November 2006, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated supervision of the project as
moderately satisfactory, essentially because QAG was of the opinion that the technical studies and
procurement steps for the dike reconstruction should have started earlier and proceeded in parallel with
the preparation of the resettlement action plan. By insisting that compensation issues associated with the
resettlement of some 120 families living on the reconstruction site, as well as another 240 families who
were victims of the flood, be resolved before embarking on technical studies and initiating bidding for the
dike reconstruction, QAG felt that the team unnecessarily delayed completion of the dike, which was
                                                     5
essential for the protection of Djibouti city. The team justified its decision on the basis of the high risk
that the resettlement plan would not be implemented. The Government of Djibouti did not have
experience with this type of activity and had shown reluctance to implementing it.

QAG rated as moderately satisfactory three quality dimensions of supervision (focus on development
effectiveness, adequacy of supervision inputs and processes, and candor and quality of ISRs). One
dimension, supervision of safeguard/fiduciary aspects, was rated satisfactory.

Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design, implementation and utilization

M&E design

Although the main text of the Memorandum of the President (MoP) and of the Technical Annex (TA) did
not mention arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, the TA provided a table on key implementation
activities and monitoring indicators. Most indicators in the list were output indicators. A few of them
focused on the number of people who would benefit from the rehabilitation of infrastructure and facilities.

M&E implementation and utilization

The first two Implementation Status Reports (ISRs), which were both issued before effectiveness, did not
provide an indicator table. This was done starting with the third ISR, dated April 2005. The table included
two outcome indicators: rehabilitation and recovery of economic and social assets damaged by the floods
and improvement in the living conditions in the resettlement area. For the latter indicator, information on
the number of families displaced by flood and resettled with occupancy permits, access to water
standpipes and pit latrines was to be provided. Five intermediate outcome indicators were mentioned,
namely: rehabilitation of flood protection structures, rehabilitation of roads, water supply and drainage
infrastructure, rehabilitation of schools and health centers, delivery of latrines (400) and water supply to
the PK12 neighborhood, and improvement of disaster prevention and management capacity. Supervision
missions filled out the indicator table regularly and consistently. These indicators were drawn from the
Technical Annex.

Safeguard and fiduciary compliance

Both the MoP and the TA provided a detailed assessment of financial management and procurement
issues and an extensive discussion of fiduciary arrangements. In the ISRs, procurement was rated
satisfactory until early 2007, when it was downgraded to moderately satisfactory, without further
explanation. The corresponding aide memoire clearly states the reason for the downgrading: the filing
system was not kept properly and there had been non-compliance with the recommendations of the latest
procurement ex-post review report, all of this being related to one key person of the procurement unit
leaving ADETIP and not being replaced. On the other hand, financial management was rated as
moderately satisfactory from the outset. It was upgraded to satisfactory in August 2007 to revert to
moderately satisfactory in early 2008. The downgrading was due to delays in the submission of financial
reports and responding to comments made in the audit report for the 2007 accounts. The aide-memoires
discussed procurement and financial management issues extensively.

Considerable attention was devoted to ensure that environment issues would be adequately addressed.
The resettlement action plan was prepared and implemented in a satisfactory manner.

Post completion operation/next phase

The last supervision mission in May 2009 found that all infrastructure and facilities rehabilitated under
the project were in good condition and operating satisfactorily. In addition the Government was

                                                     6
successful in obtaining financing for the construction of an upstream dam (Boulle), which, when built,
would relieve flood pressure on the Ambouli dike.

On the other hand, the Bank team had been concerned about the sustainability of the flood protection
measures undertaken with the project, taking into consideration that many crucial actions that were part of
the integrated watershed management program were still incomplete. The latest project supervision
missions reiterated the need for the Government to ensure that (i) the dike is appropriately maintained, (ii)
people do not settle in the flood-prone areas of the river and (iii) the flood surveillance system operates
satisfactorily and be upgraded to a full alert system as it was originally conceived. Experience showed,
however, that the Government had not taken appropriate action to clear trash accumulating along the dike
and in the river bed, nor to prevent families from settling in flood-prone areas. The mission found out that
about 30 families were squatting in these areas. Also, serious doubts were raised as to the effectiveness of
the surveillance system, in the absence of alert protocols, shelter policies, and communication strategies.

In 2008, funds were mobilized from the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR)
to develop preparatory activities related to the design and construction of a vulnerability information
system. This technical assistance allowed the team to continue its engagement with the agencies working
on disaster prevention. Furthermore, a request for additional funds is being prepared and will include the
completion and effective operation of the alert system. The Bank also financed the preparation of an
action plan for the periodic maintenance of the dike, which includes technical, institutional, and financing
aspects. Finally it was agreed that the Safeguards team would advise the Government on the possible
actions regarding the present occupation of the river's left bank. All of these actions have been part of the
team's efforts to ensure that the Government takes effective action to ensure the sustainability of the dike
works.

During project implementation, data was collected to monitor physical progress, but no M&E system was
established.

Section 3: Assessment of outcomes

Relevance of objectives, design and implementation

The objectives of the project are highly relevant now, as they were at the time of approval.
Following devastating floods, like those which occurred in April 2004, it is essential to rehabilitate the
infrastructure and facilities which are damaged and to resettle the families, which are affected by the
disaster. It is also important to put in place an improved mechanism for natural disaster prevention and
management. The operation was consistent with the first Poverty Reduction Strategy adopted by the
Government in 2004 and the CAS's broad objective of enhancing human capital and improving the living
conditions of the population.

Achievement of project development objectives

The main objective of the project, the rehabilitation and recovery of the economic and social assets
damaged by the April 2004 floods, has been achieved. All infrastructure and facilities destroyed by the
floods have been rebuilt. The living conditions in the resettlement zone where affected families have been
relocated have been improved through the construction of latrines and the provision of water. Houses
provided to relocated families in the resettlement zone by the Housing Fund much better than those which
were destroyed by the floods The capacity for disaster prevention and management has been reinforced,
but not to the extent expected.

Rehabilitation of infrastructure and facilities damaged by the April 2004 floods, with the exception of the
Ambouli dike, has been completed expeditiously. Reconstruction of the protective dike has taken much
longer than expected, with potential disastrous consequences for Djibouti city, which has been highly
                                                     7
vulnerable to flooding for an extended period of time. The dike was completed in March 2009. Some
works to ease the flow of water in the river have not yet been completed, however, due in part to
encroachment of people in the area.

Basic infrastructure in the resettlement zone at PK 12 has been completed. The construction of new
dwellings by the Housing Fund at PK 12 was completed in October 2006. Out of 127 families eligible for
resettlement at PK 12, 94 opted for a new house, 2 for a plot, and others decided to move to different
places.

An Executive Secretariat for Risks and Disaster Management (SEGRC) has been established and
the project provided equipment and supported capacity building activities as defined in the project
documents. With support from the UN and the project, the Government has enacted a law creating the
framework for disaster prevention, acquired relevant equipment and established a simulation room. Staff
working in related agencies reported that some progress has been made to increase consciousness of the
importance of disaster prevention, and that some mechanisms are in place to improve preparedness. The
Secretariat requires further institutional build up, however. It has yet to carry out two key tasks, bringing
the surveillance and early warning system in the Ambouli basin up to acceptable standards and
implementing a sensitization program for the populations living and working upstream of the dike.

Efficiency

The project was designed to restore basic economic and social infrastructure, which had been
damaged by the 2004 floods. As such, an economic analysis was not necessary. The final cost of the
project was 25 percent higher than anticipated. This was due to a 25 percent overrun in the civil works
category, essentially the result of the higher than expected cost of the flood protection system. When the
first contractor selected for the construction of the dike went bankrupt, the second bidder was selected,
but at a much higher cost. The cost of consultants was 2.4 times the amount initially estimated. The cost
of management, basically the fee for ADETIPs services, was 46 percent higher than envisaged, essentially
because it was a fixed percentage of works implemented. On the other hand, the cost of goods financed by
the project was about the same as estimated. . With the exception of the Ambouli dike, the reconstruction
of infrastructure and facilities has been implemented efficiently and in a timely fashion.

Justification of overall outcome rating

The outcome of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

The objectives of the project were highly relevant. Most rehabilitation was carried out rapidly and
efficiently. Roads were back to normal traffic swiftly. Schools and health centers were fully functional as
planned. Infrastructure and equipment for the resettlement zone was built and delivered expeditiously. On
the other hand, the reconstruction of the Ambouli dike took much longer and its cost was much higher
than expected. Moreover, the flood protection works may not provide the benefits expected, unless the
authorities take action to clear up the trash, including car carcasses, dumped into the river, and prevent
people from settling down in the river bed and banks. The effort made to build up capacity for disaster
prevention and management is not commensurate with results obtained. The agency in charge has not yet
demonstrated its ability to provide the services expected.

Overarching themes, other outcomes and impacts

Poverty impacts, gender aspects and social development

The people who were displaced by the floods were among the poorest segments of Djibouti's
population, including the people who were squatting in the Ambouli river bed and banks. They have
been resettled and benefit from water and sanitation facilities, and much improved dwellings. As already
                                                    8
indicated, however, they have difficulty finding jobs, as the resettlement site is far from downtown
Djibouti. Several families, who were resettled, made a living out of vegetable gardening in the Ambouli
river bed. It is not clear whether the objective of creating employment opportunities through high
intensive labor methods for the rehabilitation of infrastructure and facilities has been achieved. In spite of
its mandate, which was to carry out public works using labor intensive methods, ADETIP, the project
implementation agency, did not report the jobs created. There were no specific gender-related activities in
the project.

Institutional changes/strengthening

When the project was appraised, ADETIP, as a contract management agency, had a solid experience in
implementing Bank-financed projects. It had a good capacity for procurement and financial management.
In recognition of its capacity to deliver results, in 2007, the Government decided to broaden the mandate
of ADETIP, and make it the agency in charge of implementing the National Initiative for Human
Development, (INDH). Its name was changed to ADDS.

The project was expected to build capacity for disaster prevention and management. Limited results were
achieved in that area, but additional resources are being mobilized to enhance the effectiveness of the
Secretariat.

Summary of findings of beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshops

The project included a study, by ADETIP, to assess the situation of families who had been resettled.
This study was not carried out, however, but a report of the situation was prepared by the Housing Fund.
The last supervision mission had a meeting with beneficiaries to discuss their problems. During that
meeting, beneficiaries indicated that they were happy with the houses built with support from the Housing
Fund, but mentioned that water supply had been a problem in the previous two months. They emphasized
also problems related to long distances to schools and employment opportunities. Some of them stressed
that they had difficulties in their relations with people established in the resettlement area earlier than
them. All these complaints were to be expected. The long distance to the city center is real, but there was
no land available for resettlement closer to the city. Water availability remains a problem in many
sections of Djibouti. Djibouti city is expanding rapidly and it is expected that the resettlement area will
become better integrated within the urban network over time.

Section 4: Assessment of risk to development outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated as significant. The Ambouli dike provides protection to
Djibouti city against floods. Additional works are required upstream to slow down the flow of water in
case of severe flooding. Financing for the construction of the Boulle dam upstream has been secured. This
dam is expected to reduce the intensity of a centennial flood from 2,000 m3 to 1,700 m3/sec. The
Ambouli dike has been designed to contain a 1,500 m3/sec. flood.

Little is being done to maintain the dike and surrounding areas. Trash, including car carcasses, is
being dumped in the Ambouli river bed, but nothing is being done to remove it. People are squatting in
the river bed and on the banks, but nothing is done to move them away from the area, nor to prevent more
people from encroaching on public domain. The budget for the maintenance of the dike is inadequate and
should be doubled, according to the consultant hired by the Bank to assess the sustainability of the dike.
The Municipality of Djibouti is concerned about the lack of preparedness in case of a catastrophic event,
but has not taken any action to address the problem. The early warning system is not operational. The
Secretariat in charge of prevention and management of natural disasters needs substantial capacity
building to provide the leadership required.


                                                      9
Section 5: Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance

Bank performance

Quality at entry

The Regional Vice President visited Djibouti in May 2004, a couple of weeks after the April flooding.
A multi-sectoral Bank team visited Djibouti in June 2004. It worked closely with the Government and the
donor community. Negotiations took place one month later. The project was approved by the Board on
October 2, 2006. The Bank moved rapidly to respond to the emergency situation.

The project design was moderately satisfactory. The project was an appropriate response to the disaster
caused by the floods. All project components were highly relevant. The fiduciary aspects of the projects
were adequately assessed. The social and environment impacts of the project were well analyzed. The
lessons from experience were taken into account and the risk analysis was adequate. The Board
documents did not include outcome indicators and did not discuss monitoring and evaluation
arrangements. This was a shortcoming, but was accepted as such in the context of the need to respond
quickly to the emergency. This shortcoming should have been corrected during project implementation.
The project implementation schedule lacked realism. Expecting that the project would be completed
within 32 months was optimistic, in view of weak government capacity and complex social issues to be
addressed. The sustainability risk was not correctly assessed.

The quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Quality of Bank supervision

As already indicated, QAG rated the quality of supervision as moderately satisfactory in November
2006. According to QAG, the Bank team should not have delayed initiation of the technical studies and
bidding process for the Ambouli dike until the compensation issues for the people to be resettled were
satisfactorily resolved. The focus of supervision missions was on resettlement issues and possible cost
overrun in the reconstruction of the dike, not sufficiently on the potential consequences of a delay in the
reconstruction of the flood control dike, which was a major objective of the emergency project. The focus
of supervision missions on development effectiveness was insufficient.

In QAG's opinion, supervision inputs and processes were inadequate, because a key mission in
February/March 2005 was led by an inexperienced task manager, who had not been closely involved in
the preparation and appraisal of the project. Also, management did not give sufficient attention to the
urgency of moving ahead with the reconstruction of the dike. QAG found that ratings were a bit
overoptimistic.

QAG's criticism of the quality of Bank supervision is unduly harsh, however. Faced with the
inability of the Government to prevent people from encroaching on the dike embankments and its
reluctance to implement the resettlement policy, which it considered as too generous towards illegal
squatters, the Bank team had no other choice but to insist that commitments made be implemented before
disbursing funds related to the reconstruction of the dike. This insistence paid off eventually, as the
Government took required action. The Bank gave its non objection to the contract with the consultant
selected for the technical studies only when the resettlement action plan was formally approved by the
Government. QAG's assessment that supervision inputs and processes were inadequate on grounds that a
key mission was led by an in experienced task manager was not well justified either. In reality, the
mission was organized to follow-up on technical details, and there was no need for that mission to be led
by the team leader.


                                                    10
Supervision missions visited Djibouti twice a year. There was a remarkable continuity in Bank
supervision. The task manager, who was responsible for the preparation and appraisal of the project, was
in charge of project supervision until end 2007. He did not take part in the second supervision mission in
February/March 2005, but led all missions until the end of 2007. The task manager; who took over in
2008, participated in the December 2007 mission led by the initial task manager. Fiduciary and
safeguards aspects were adequately addressed during supervision. Bank missions developed good
working relations with the government and the donor community. They provided assistance to ADETIP,
the implementing agency.

The quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory.

Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower performance

Government performance

The authorities responded swiftly to the damages caused by the floods. They mobilized government
agencies, the private sector, the civil society and the donor community to provide immediate assistance to
flood victims, clean up damages in affected areas and initiate the rehabilitation of infrastructure. They
were highly committed during the preparation and appraisal phase.

The strong commitment of the early months weakened after Board approval of the project. Meeting
the general conditions of effectiveness took longer than expected and the Government delayed taking
action in delivering occupancy permits to families relocated on the PK 12 site, providing a nominative list
of displaced people, and addressing compensation issues. It did not take action to prevent people from
moving back to the Ambouli river bed and banks. As a consequence, a Resettlement Action Plan became
necessary, which considerably delayed reconstruction of the Ambouli dike. On the other hand, it provided
leadership for early rehabilitation of all other infrastructure damaged by the floods and mobilized the
resources required for the resettlement in the PK 12 site. These resources were much higher than those
provided by IDA for the water supply and latrines component. The additional financing became effective
one year after it was approved by the Board.

Following reconstruction of the dike, the Government has not taken action to ensure adequate
maintenance of the facility and surrounding areas. It did not put in place an effective system for
preventing people from encroaching in the river bed and banks and from dumping trash. It appointed a
team to lead the disaster prevention and management unit, which has kept a low profile despite technical
assistance provided under the project.

The performance of the Government is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

Performance of the implementing agency

ADETIP has done a commendable job in managing project implementation. Its performance has
been consistently rated satisfactory, except in the ISR following the December 2007 supervision mission.
At that time ADETIP was distracted by the organizational changes in the wake of ADDS's creation. Its
performance was rated moderately unsatisfactory. Financial management was most of the time less than
fully satisfactory. Procurement was rated satisfactory early on and moderately satisfactory in December
2006. On the other hand, M&E was rated moderately satisfactory early on and was upgraded after
December 2006. ADETIP's supervision of the dike construction became less intense as time went on. As
it became ADDS, it had other assignments to take care of.

Overall, ADETIP's performance is rated as satisfactory.
                                               11
Section 6: Lessons learned

Following natural disasters, the Bank has demonstrated its ability to move fast to put together an
emergency rehabilitation operation. On the other hand, after the mobilization of energies in the immediate
aftermath of a disaster, governments may take time to take the steps required for implementation of a
reconstruction program. In the case of Djibouti, it took a long time for the Government to ensure that
basic requirements for initiating implementation of crucial components were addressed.

It is important to entrust implementation of a post-disaster operation to a well established agency, with
good knowledge of Bank procedures and adequate procurement and financial management capacity.
ADETIP did a good job in coordinating implementation of a large number of components.

The lack of government reaction to the encroachment on public domain in a sensitive area is puzzling and
needs to be discussed within the country dialogue context. Sooner or later, the Government will have to
address the problem, hopefully before a severe flood.

A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was not deemed necessary when the project was formulated, as it was
not clear whether protection works would displace residents or agricultural activities. Experience shows
that it would have been advisable to include preparation of a RAP in the project and start preparing it as a
first step for the reconstruction of the dike.

The Bank policy on involuntary resettlement is difficult to accept by governments in countries where
squatters include illegal immigrants from neighboring countries. They consider it as too generous and are
afraid of creating precedents. This is a sensitive issue which should be discussed openly with the recipient
countries.

Sustainability of the dike and of the surveillance system is a major issue. The Bank hired a consultant to
review this issue and make appropriate recommendations. This was most useful. It is important now to
sensitize key stakeholders to the findings and recommendations of the report. Resources should be made
available for that purpose.

Capacity building is difficult when there is little government interest in addressing the issues for which a
new agency (SEGRC) has been created under weak leadership. It is important nevertheless for the Bank
to constantly emphasize the need for a disaster-prone country to improve its preparedness and mitigation
capacity.

Building capacity for disaster prevention and management takes time. There is less of a sense of urgency
when the previous disaster is no longer on the radar screen. The role of the Bank is to maintain the issue
alive through dialogue and other means. In the case of Djibouti, involvement of the GFDRR for the
financing of specific capacity building activities may yield positive results.




                                                    12
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate
                                                                  Estimate (USD      Percentage of
            Components                     (USD millions)
                                                                     millions)        Appraisal
                                          (USD1 = AD 80)
                                                                 (USD1 = AD 74)
1. Rehabilitation of Economic &
                                                 4.98                         6.02        120.81%
Social Infrastructure
2. Delivery of Infrastructure services
                                                 0.43                         1.41        327.9%
to Resettlement Zone
3. TA & Consultancy services to
                                                 0.32                         0.81         253%
Disaster Prevention & MGT
4. ADETIP project MGT &
                                                 0.34                         0.49        144.1%
implementation assistance fee
Resettlement Expenses                            0.72                         0.72         100%
                Total Baseline Cost              6.79                         8.30        122.24%
Physical and Price Contingencies                 0.37
                 Total Project Costs             7.17                         8.73        121.75%
         Total Financing Required                                             8.73



(b) Financing

                                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage
                                           Type of
          Source of Funds                                 Estimate          Estimate           of
                                         Cofinancing
                                                        (USD millions)   (USD millions)    Appraisal
Government Contributions                                    0.72              0.72             0
World Bank (IDA)                                            6.46              8.76          135.6%




                                                   13
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                                         Cost
WORKS
                                                                 USD               DJF
1. Reconstruction of dike and breakwaters                         3 237 026       574 572 132
2. Rehabilitation of urban roads                                  2 028 310       360 024 974
Type E road                                                       1 245 063       220 998 649
SOGIK ZIS street                                                    197 911        35 129 175
EDD ZIS street                                                      585 336       103 897 150
3. Clearing and rehabilitation of drainage canals                    97 112        17 237 379
Clearing of 5 km of storm water drains                               42 015         7 457 600
Installation of 500 sewer covers                                     55 097         9 779 779
4. RN1 and RN9 interurban highways                                  250 881        44 531 324
5. Rehabilitation of health centers                                  60 496        10 738 100
Ambouli/Farah Had                                                    28 736         5 100 700
Ibrahim Balala                                                       16 907         3 001 000
Arhiba                                                               14 853         2 636 400
6. Services for Km 12                                               342 838        60 853 678
Water supply                                                        145 240        25 780 028
Construction of 400 latrines                                        197 598        35 073 650
                                 Total                            6 016 662     1 067 957 587

SUPPLIES
7. Sanitation equipment                                             205 265       36 331 831
Electromechanical pumping equipment                                       0                0
Hydro-cureuse (High-pressure flusher)                               205 265       36 331 831
8. Equipment for Ambouli CES                                         99 839       17 671 416
9. Manuals for primary schools and Supplies for Ambouli CES         323 225       57 210 864
Supplies for primary schools                                        208 288       36 866 933
Supplies for Ambouli CES                                            114 937       20 343 931
10. Medical equipment for CSC                                        60 826       10 766 267
11. Equipment and supplies for ONED                                 718 279      127 135 358
System equipment                                                    322 006       56 995 000
Motor pumps                                                         181 128       32 059 676
Truck-mounted crane                                                 174 808       30 941 075
Water-purification chemicals                                         40 337        7 139 607
                               Total                              1 407 434      249 115 735

CONSULTATION SERVICES
12. Consultancy services                                            809 774      143 734 972
13. Project overhead (6%)                                           494 032       87 690 718
                                Total                             1 303 807      231 425 690

GRAND TOTAL                                                       8 727 903     1 548 499 012
Source: ADDS



                                                    14
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

                                          N/A




                                           15
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Anthony Bigio               Sr. Urban Specialist, TTL               MNSIF
Robert Hindle               Yemen Resident Mission Representative   MNCYE
Sameh Wahba                 Sr. Urban Specialist                    MNSIF
Richard James               Operations Officer                      MNCA3
Abduljabbar Al Qattar       Procurement Specialist                  MNAPR
Supervision/ICR
Anas Abou El Mikias         Sr. Financial Management Spec.          MNAFM
Abduljabbar Al Qathab       Sr. Procurement Spec.                   SARPS
Yvette Laure Djachechi      Sr. Social Development Spec.            AFTCS
Karim Kamil Fahim           Auditor                                 IADDR
Abdoulaye Keita             Procurement Specialist                  MNAPR
Mohamed Mehdi               Consultant                              MNAFM
Edouard Henri Motte         Consultant                              EASCS
M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie Oppong Sr. Social Development Spec.             SDV
Alexandra Ortiz             Sr. Urban Economist, TTL                MNSUR
Thomas Kwasi Siaw Anang Procurement Specialist                      AFTPC
Georges Khoury-Haddad       Procurement Specialist                  MNAPR
Randa Akeel                 Social Development Specialist           MNSPR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                           2                           14.51
  FY05                                           6                           23.10
                            Total:               8                           37.61
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                        19                             77.01
  FY06                                        12                             79.92
  FY07                                        12                            100.12
  FY08                                        12                            105.41
  FY09                                         8                              0.00
                            Total:            63                            362.46




                                            16
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

                                      NA




                                      17
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                                     NA




                                     18
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




         1.     Context and factors justifying the project

                1.1      General context

1)       The Republic of Djibouti is a small country of 23,000 km2 and a population of 700,000,
located at the eastern end of the Horn of Africa. The capital city is home to three-quarters of the
nation's population, and all economic and administrative infrastructure, whether official or private, is
centralized in it.

2)       Because the country's harsh natural environment is unsuited for agriculture, the economy is
structured around the tertiary sector, which accounts for 75 percent of GDP.

3)      During the 1990s Djibouti went through a serious political crisis, which was followed by an
unprecedented economic crisis. For about ten years now the country has enjoyed a time of real
economic and social prosperity as a result of a policy of modernizing and dynamizing its economic
and social infrastructure initiated by the current President of the Republic.

4)        With an arid climate and a wide coastal strip along the Red Sea, Djibouti normally receives
little in the way of precipitation. With annual rainfall of 150 to 200 mm on average1, precipitation is
infrequent but when rains do come they plunge the country and in particular the capital, where all
economic and social activity is concentrated, into an extremely stressful situation.

5)       The capital, which was originally built around the colonial administration, was limited to the
north by the sea and extended to the general area of the Ambouli wadi in the south. Its growth in
recent years has taken place mostly in a southward direction, beyond the wadi, with the result that
there is now a part of the city over on the other side of the wadi. At present, the city's two main
components are separated by the bed of the wadi and they must at all costs be kept connected by
appropriate works in the everyday life of the capital. The capital's intrinsic vulnerability in times of
heavy rainfall was dramatically underscored by the floods of April 2004. The amount of rain that fell
in that period and the flooding caused by the run-off was such that the wadi overflowed and the water
devastated the Ambouli area, causing considerable human and property losses.

6.      The Ambouli wadi is an integral part of the city and every effort must be made to ensure that
there will be no danger of repetition of such floods and that the people living alongside or near the
wadi will be able to dwell safely in their homes. This is why the Republic of Djibouti has carried out
the "Post-Flooding Emergency Rehabilitation Project" designed to rehabilitate the infrastructure
damaged by the floods, to render the area safe and to resettle the victims of the disaster, with financial
assistance from the International Development Association (IDA).

7)     With total funding of SDR 5.8 million, made up of a credit of SDR 2.2 million and a grant of
SDR 3.6 million, obtained in July 2004, the project was completed in March 2009.

                1.2      Position as regards infrastructure and preparation of the country for natural
                         disasters




1
    CCA ­ February 2002, p. 15.


                                                   19
8)       Djibouti is very vulnerable to natural disasters. Rains are infrequent but also constitute the
chief threat. The country's recent history shows that since independence in 1977 it has experienced
six major floods classified as natural disasters and occurring at regular intervals of roughly once every
ten years. In March 1981, floods claimed 25 lives and affected over 100,000 persons. The April 1989
floods killed 10 people and impacted more than 150,000. The rains of November 1994 caused 145
deaths and left 120,000 victims. Ten years later in April 2004, the rains caused the disappearance of
100 persons and affected 100,000. The impact of these disasters is considerable taking into account
the small size of the country; by way of illustration, the April 2004 floods, the subject of this study,
affected 15 percent of its population.

9)       The National Crisis Management Plan (ORSEC), created by the Government by decree of
March 23, 1985, spelled out the first-aid measures to be mobilized in the event of natural disasters
under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. These comprised an emergency unit and a
general staff that the appropriate ministry was to set up on an ad hoc basis when crises occur.
However, since the effectiveness of this plan has been deemed inadequate in practice, the Government
has undertaken a reform of disaster management, justified primarily by the nonpermanent nature of
the Contingency Plan and its limited provisions for preventive actions for swift and efficient response
in the event of floods.

10)      By Presidential Order issued in August 2004,2 the Government, as a first step, established an
intersectoral technical committee charged with preparing and developing a national risk and disaster
management strategy, this committee being placed under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior
and Decentralization. Then secondly, and on the basis of this committee's work, combined with the
findings of a study made by an international consultant, a new institutional framework for Risk and
Disaster Management was created by decree in July 2006.3

11)    From that point onward the Government's action in this sphere has been channeled through
new and expanded bodies of an interministerial and intersectoral nature, namely:

      The Interministerial Risk and Disaster Management Committee: chaired by the Prime Minister
      with the Minister of the Interior and Decentralization serving as deputy chairman, this committee
      also includes eleven other ministries having roles to play in the event of national disasters.

      The Intersectoral Technical Risk and Disaster Management Committee: chaired by the Secretary
      General of the Ministry of the Interior and Decentralization with a representative of the Prime
      Minister's Office as deputy chairman, this has now been expanded to include twenty members
      from directorates general and technical departments of the State and civil society.

      And the Executive Secretariat, which imparts a permanence that was lacking with the previous
      arrangements.

12)     The adoption of these measures represents a significant step forward and brings with it a
judicious allocation of responsibilities. The supervision exercised by the Office of the Prime Minister
means there is a high-level decision-making authority which in turn ensures a greater involvement of
the national authorities in disaster management than has been the case in the past. The permanence
and the precise specification of the tasks assigned to the Executive Secretariat are consistent with the


2
    Presidential Order No. 2004-0579/PR/MID establishing the Technical Committee for Preparation
     and Development of the National Risk and Disaster Management Strategy of August 17, 2004.
3
     Decree No. 2006-0912/PR/MID setting up an institutional framework for Risk and Disaster
     Management of July 23, 2006.


                                                   20
challenges posed by disaster management, provided the Secretariat is appropriately strengthened to
carry out its new responsibilities.

13)    Djibouti is moreover a member of the Regional Disaster Management Center of the eleven
Golden Spear countries. To this end it ratified the instrument of accession to the Regional Center by
Law No. 157/AN/06 of December 18, 2006.

        2.      Special conditions spurring development of the project

14)     In the night of April 13, 2004, heavy rains fell on the capital and swiftly made the Ambouli
wadi overflow. The suddenness and violence of the downpours devastated the neighborhood and
caused extensive property damage and loss of life, with most of the victims being caught unawares
while they slept.

15)     The waters very quickly flowed into the other districts and brought the city to a standstill.
The intensity of the rainfall and the widespread damage caused prevented any form of effective
response and the means mobilized were far below what was needed to bring the situation under
control. The infrastructure was put out of commission and economic activities were hampered if not
shut down. The people who lived in the area of the wadi, who were low-income persons, found
themselves homeless and totally dependent on the emergency assistance program set up by the
national authorities.

16)      Faced with the confusion created by recurrent disasters on the one hand and the absolute
necessity of restoring the public infrastructure on the other, the Government set itself a twofold
objective: develop a disaster management program, covering all aspects and viable over the long term,
and assume responsibility for rehabilitation of the flood-damaged infrastructure and assistance to the
victims.

17)     With this aim in mind, the national authorities approached potential donors for assistance.
World Bank financing was then obtained for implementing an emergency program for rehabilitating
and redynamizing the essential economic and social assets and rehousing the people left homeless by
the floods.

18)     The program prepared had to concentrate on rehabilitation of the economic infrastructure and
assistance to the civil victims, in particular by resettling them on another site at PK 12, provided with
the minimum basic services.

19)      Prepared as a response to emergency circumstances, the project is an ambitious one and
covers several objectives: (i) it must first of all meet the need to restore the capital's essential
infrastructure services and organize assistance for the disaster victims; (ii) then secondly, the project
must also strengthen the capacity and capability of the unit with responsibility for disaster response,
the Executive Secretariat for Risk and Disaster Management (SEGRC), since this capacity and
capability constitute the necessary bases for management of the works and facilities constructed over
the long term.

20)      For its part, the Government must organize the involvement of several actors while reviewing
the existing arrangements and filling the gaps in them. This is a complex process where the pressure
of urgency must yield to a carefully thought-through approach. This objective of the national
authorities must be pursued by steady sustainable action and not one-off measures. To achieve this,
all the parties involved must know precisely what their respective roles and responsibilities are and
possess the necessary means on a permanent basis. It is a matter of setting up a permanent national
mechanism for dealing with disasters which by their nature are chance occurrences.




                                                   21
21)        Accomplishment of the Government's general objective of providing the country with a
complete mechanism for preventing and managing disasters requires implementation of the PRUSI as
its first stage.

22)     The infrastructure component of the program consists in securing the Ambouli wadi district
and making its essential infrastructure operational, including in particular rehabilitation of the
Ambouli dike and of the urban and national roads. The social component is intended to take care of
the flood victims and restarting of the activities of the schools and health centers.

23)      The cutback dike construction and the multipurpose dam have been retained for the
rehabilitation of the basin, with installation of a provisional flood-watch system to secure the worksite.
The empirical study of past floods produced justification for constructing the dike to handle a
thousand-year flow of 1,500 m3/second.

24)     The environmental impact of the reconstruction of the dike was studied by the Bureau
Central d'Etudes d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM).

25)     The assistance to flood victims is defined by the Involuntary Rehousing Plan (PRI) and
involves 127 households, of whom 55 are victims of the flooding and 72 have been displaced by the
dike reconstruction work. The resettlement of these families will also include funding to provide the
PK 12 receiving site with basic services, with assistance from the Housing Fund which is charged
with providing them with homes in the Cité Gargar.

        3.      Description of the project

                3.1      Set-up

26)   With financial assistance from the International Development Association (IDA), the Djibouti
Government has implemented the Emergency Post-Flooding Rehabilitation Project (PRUSI).

27)      The project comprises two main components, each made up of a number of subcomponents:
the "Infrastructure" component, designed to reconstruct the damaged economic and social
infrastructure works and facilities, and the "Social" component, for resettlement of the households
impacted by the flooding and rehabilitation and improvement works in the Ambouli wadi. To be able
to properly carry out the project it proved to be necessary to complement it with two supporting
activities: (i) technical assistance for strengthening the Disaster Management Unit (SEGRC); and (ii)
for the implementation of the project.

    a) The "Infrastructure" component: the emergency rehabilitation of the economic and social
       infrastructure. This covers five fields in which the country's public infrastructure and
       facilities have been devastated by the floodwaters:

        (i)     Rehabilitation and strengthening of the protective structures designed to prevent
                flooding: the primary component of the project, this rehabilitation work focuses on
                reconstructing the dike along the wadi that protects the Ambouli-Djebel district,
                involving consolidation and widening of certain segments of the wadi bed, especially
                near the Italy Bridge;

        (ii)    Rehabilitation of the roads and drainage canals: the aim here is to restore the
                segments of urban regional roads destroyed by the floods, and also the storm water
                drainage canals;

        (iii)   Rehabilitation of schools, in particular those located in the Ambouli zone, where the
                water destroyed furniture and teaching equipment;


                                                   22
        (iv)          Rehabilitation of health centers, by restoring the buildings and replacing furniture and
                      medical equipment damaged by the floods;

        (v)           Rehabilitation of water-supply infrastructure: the rehabilitation of the potable water
                      production and distribution facilities of ONED, the national operator, entails
                      procurement of parts and maintenance products for use in producing water for human
                      consumption.

    b) The "Social" component: resettlement of households and provision of basic services in the
       PK 12 zone, comprising:

               (i)          Access to potable water (IEP) by means of installation of public standpipes in
                            strategic locations in mutual agreement with the people involved to enable their
                            settlement in the new site;

               (ii)         Installation of latrines in the planned locations on the lots intended for the
                            resettled households.

    c) The "Technical Assistance" component in the following two spheres:

               (i)          Technical assistance for disaster prevention and management, with a dedicated
                            budget for the technical design studies and studies for supervision of the
                            rehabilitation works and training and strengthening of the capacity of the Disaster
                            Management Unit (DMU);

               (ii)         Technical assistance for the implementation of the project.

                      3.2       Planning

28)     Right after the occurrence of the disaster, the national authorities moved swiftly to obtain
agreement in principle for World Bank financing, which served as the basis for the first emergency
actions undertaken.

29)     The Disaster Contingency Plan crisis unit, mobilized on an immediate-response basis, was
requested to make an urgent assessment of the needs in the different spheres. The project was then
planned in light of this assessment as follows:

               The assessment of the priority actions for the water-supply section was provided by
               ONED,
               The technical directorates of the Ministry of Housing, Development, the Environment and
               Regional Development played a role in determining the needs in terms of economic and
               social infrastructure,
               The Chief of the DMU determined the needs of the health centers,
               The needs of the educational establishments were determined by the Chief of the DMU
               and of the Education Council,
               The Technical Directorate of ADETIP, for the coordination and centralization of data
               needed for planning the project.

30)      In parallel, the findings of a disaster-prevention study entrusted to Coline Bélier under the
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture made it possible to determine four priority thrusts for
integrated development of the basin: (i) reforestation of the basin; (ii) construction of a multipurpose
dam upstream; (iii) construction of a dike capable of withstanding a flow of 1,500 m3/s; and (iv)
installation of an alert system starting from Weah.



                                                         23
31)     Construction of the dike was entrusted to ADETIP on the basis of the BCEOM study. Prior
to the commencement of the project, a study ordered by ADETIP from BCEOM made it possible to
demarcate the perimeter actually required for the dike worksite, which was 50 meters wide and 2,500
meters long. This study also provided detailed information regarding the physical environment and
biodiversity of the project area, which in turn made it possible to assess the possible environmental
impacts that the project might generate. The same approach was employed for the social impacts.

32)     The data derived from this study were integrated into the implementation of the project with
the solutions and possible attenuations for each type of impact thus identified and revealed by the
BCEOM study. As a result of the steps taken for the protection of nature and the recommendations
formulated by the study it proved possible to limit the harmful environmental impacts. The social
study provided an opportunity to get to know the people affected by the project and the conditions
governing their resettlement on the PK 12 site with pertinent compensatory provisions.

                3.3     Implementation

33)     The SOTEC construction company was initially awarded the contract, but subsequently
proved unable to perform its obligations and was replaced by COSMEZZ. The works were not
actually started until September, instead of January 2007, in other words nine months behind schedule.
Once started, the works took 14 months instead of 9 months.

34)     The second difficulty which held up implementation of the project was the case of two
individuals for whom the expropriation program could not be applied. Because the properties of
Messrs. Moussa Ahmed and Mohamoud Hassan were located on land earmarked for expropriation for
construction of the dike, ADETIP had to take special steps to leave these properties untouched while
continuing the works.

35)      A wall belonging to ONEAD located upstream of the wadi made it necessary to shift the
centerline of the dike 3 meters toward the bed of the wadi. The shift was of 0 to 3 m between M 90
and M 280 and of 3 m between M 280 and M 490, with installation of breakwater No. 2 at M 280.
This old wall would not have been able to withstand the vibrations caused by the compacting work.
Instead of demolishing the wall and rebuilding it, the decision was made to work further out from it
for financial reasons.

36)     A culvert found at M 2.183 was replaced by concrete pipes of 1 m diameter installed in
cofferdams.

37)    At Km 1300 an access for vehicles at a gradient of 12 percent was constructed to prevent
damaging of the dike.

38)     A provisional flood-warning system was found to be necessary for securing the work zone.
Two sirens, the triggers for which were placed in the Arrondissement 3 Police Station, were set up so
as to provide warning of any flooding during the works in the wadi basin. The perimeters of the
worksite were protected by a barbed-wire fence and a site laboratory was also added.

39)      The construction materials used to make the gabions and protective facings for the dike were
essentially recovered from the old dike, with the assistance of the local people, and after checking and
testing by the site laboratory.

40)     Changes with respect to the original designs included:

            Omission of the service road in the case of the properties whose owners resisted
            expropriation: among the modifications decided on owing to the presence of the
            properties of Moussa Ahmed, Mohamoud Hassan, and the Garage Ibrahim, the 3-meter-
            wide top of the dike was to be covered with a 15-cm-thick reinforced-concrete surface

                                                  24
            layer to carry vehicular traffic. The service road was to be connected with the town by
            means of an embankment made of compacted fill with a 15-cm reinforced-concrete
            surface. This road was never built due to lack of funds.
            Omission of steps: the area includes four crossing points for pedestrians, where it was
            originally intended to put in four sets of steps to facilitate movement for the people. These
            steps were never built.

41)     Among the improvements to the existing situation, mention should be made of the widening
of the dike at the level of the Italy Bridge and the clearing of the bridge's openings, so that there are
now five openings usable instead of just two as before.

42)      The urban road rehabilitation work focused on the Type E road, the Cité Progrès road and the
installation of 500 sewer covers over 10 km of the system. Taken overall this component was
maintained, although budget constraints meant that the State had to assume responsibility for the
provision of 500 covers while the project simply handled their installation.

43)      The implementation of the components was effected by means of agreements concluded by
ADETIP with the different institutions involved in their respective fields. These agreements, based
on the needs defined by the beneficiary departments as contracting authorities, specify the
relationships between them and ADETIP, as delegated project manager. For instance, implementation
and the actual performance of the works were the subject of regular consultation between the
contracting authority and the delegated project manager. In most cases the contracting authority
would designate one of its staff members to serve as "focal point" to represent it and to approve the
progress of the work. For its part, the contracting authority cooperated fully by responding to all of
ADETIP's requests.

44)     Each agreement accordingly specified the following:

        -   The Ministry of Health provided a list of the facilities to be rehabilitated and of medical
            equipment needed;
        -   The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport concluded three agreements covering
            respectively the urban roads, RN1 (Km 33 and Km 51) and the Ambouli dike;
        -   The Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, Environment and Regional
            Development's needs were the subject of two agreements: one relating to the Sanitation
            Directorate's list of requirements, comprising the electromechanical equipment, one
            special purpose truck carrying machinery for forcing water under pressure through pipes
            (camion hydro-cureur) and the replacement of 500 sewer covers and the other covering
            the Directorate of Housing and Urban Development's needs for the latrines;
        -   The Ministry of the Interior, acting as representative of the Government, concluded a
            framework agreement with ADETIP under which ADETIP is authorized to implement the
            emergency post-flooding rehabilitation project. In the Ministry's field, it was SEGRC
            which, as disaster-management focal point, concluded the agreement with ADETIP;
        -   The Ministry of Education specified in the pertinent agreement the needs in terms of
            equipment and textbooks for seven of Djibouti's primary schools and the Ambouli CES;
        -   In its capacity as project manager for the water-supply part of the project, ONED
            concluded an agreement for water supply and provision of materials and equipment for
            PK 12.

45)     On the basis of the needs thus assessed by each department and their respective costs,
ADETIP then proceeded to award contracts in accordance with the Bank's procurement manual for
materials and equipment intended for the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure.




                                                   25
        4.       Accomplishment of project objectives

                 4.1     Part A of project:    "Emergency Rehabilitation of Economic and Social
                         Infrastructure"

                         4.1.1   Rehabilitation of flood-protection infrastructure

46)     The reconstruction of the dike took place as programmed: using fill compacted to 98 percent
of Proctor Optimum with a 50-cm-thick riprap cover. This reconstruction was done in the following
stages:

             Clearing of the top layer and of material underneath it, done in September to November
             2008 using bulldozers and excavator shovels
             The fill was taken from an area located 10 km from the dike, in accordance with the
             Municipality's current regulations and under testing and control by the site laboratory. A
             trial section 40 m long and 5 m wide was used for testing purposes and it was determined
             that ten passes were needed to achieve the required degree of compaction; this number
             was raised to 12 to provide an additional safety margin.
             The 50-cm riprap used for the dike was made from the riprap recovered from the old dike,
             supplemented by fresh material from the quarry.
             The five culverts intended for draining off rainwater from the Ambouli district were
             installed. The fifth was set in a cofferdam while the other four were connected to Nelson
             Mandela Avenue.
             The six breakwaters for stabilizing the dike and the course of the wadi were all built.
             Based on foundations put in 6 m below the bed of the wadi, these breakwaters were made
             of gabions. There was already a breakwater at Km 700, which was strengthened in the
             course of the project, thus raising the number of breakwaters to seven.
             A vehicle crossing originally intended for Km 1994 was not built because of lack of
             funding.

47)     The plans called for putting in two sets of steps to make it easier for people to walk from one
part of the wadi bed to another. For financial reasons on the one hand, but also because it was
determined that one set of steps would be sufficient, it was decided by mutual agreement between
ADDS and BCEOM to put in just one set of steps.

48)     A provisional flood-warning system was installed. There was going to be another project
designed to provide the basin with a permanent warning system, but this latter project never
materialized and the provisional system is still operational.

                         4.1.2   Rehabilitation of roads and drainage infrastructure

49)     The floodwaters caused major damage to the road and drainage infrastructure in the
neighborhoods adjoining Ambouli. The main roads connecting the south and the north of the city
were cut by the floods.

50)     First of all there was the Circulaire d'Ambouli which extends from the Ambouli traffic circle
to the Boulevard De Gaulle, where a 859-meter stretch required rehabilitation.

51)     The Type E Road connects the Circulaire d'Ambouli located in the eastern part of the city of
Djibouti and the Arta Highway located in the west. This road is 1,793 meters long and serves the
industrial zone where the warehouses of the chief businesses established in the city are to be found.
The adjacent roads also serve several low-income neighborhoods such as Quartier 7, Quartier 7 Bis,
and the Cité du Stade.



                                                  26
52)     The works on the Cité Progrès road were carried out as planned. These comprised a 450-
meter section which connects Nelson Mandela Avenue to a road heavily used by public transit
vehicles.

53)   The EDD road, on an 842-meter stretch on the RN2, underwent rehabilitation starting in
December 2005 and the work was completed as scheduled at the end of 2006.

54)    The rehabilitation of Sogik ZIS Street involved the section connecting RN2 by the Public
Works building starting from the service station.

55)     In total, more than 5 km of urban roads were rehabilitated and delivered by the project. The
Djibouti city drainage system had 500 sewer covers rehabilitated in satisfactory shape.

                       4.1.3   Rehabilitation of schools

56)    The second batch of school textbooks, ordered from the EDICEF company, was delivered in
mid-February. This activity has now been entirely completed.

                       4.1.4   Rehabilitation of health centers

57)     The rehabilitation work done on the four health centers has been approved. The medical
materials and equipment ordered have been delivered and have received final approval,
notwithstanding the reserves expressed by the Ministry of Health.

                       4.1.5   Rehabilitation of water-supply infrastructure

58)    The last items of technical equipment for ONED were delivered in December and have been
approved by the contracting authority. The truck-mounted crane was delivered at the end of March
and approved by the contracting authority.

                       4.1.6   Installation of flood-warning system

59)    The project called for installation of a flood-warning system. In the end, the system put in
was made up of two sets of equipment.

           The flood-warning system financed by USAID, managed by SEGCR and CERD and
           consisting of equipment for measuring the flows in the wadi and rainfall together with a
           radio system for transmitting the data;
           The flood-warning system financed by the World Bank and consisting of two sirens
           placed in one of the banks of the wadi during the construction of the dike.

               4.2     Part B of project: "Provision of Basic Infrastructure Services in the PK 12
                       Resettlement Zone"

60)     Despite the fact that building is formally prohibited in the zone, the entire length of the
Ambouli wadi has always had dwellings of some sort on it. The study of the social impact of the
project revealed that the people living in this zone are of a modest income level and have been
severely impacted by the floods of April 2004.

61)    The integrated development of the Ambouli wadi, the overriding aim of which is protection of
the people living there, accordingly had to seek to meet the challenge of settling them in an
environment suitable for permanent housing, i.e. resettling them at PK 12.

62)    The census carried out for the purpose found that there were 127 households affected either
by the floods or by the rehabilitation works who needed shelter. The Housing Fund, with the

                                                27
construction of the Cité Gargar, has made one- or two-room houses available for these people. The
houses in question have been bought by means of hire-purchase contracts requiring monthly payments
of DF 5,000 for the one-room models and DF 8,000 for the two-room versions, over a period of 10
years and 10 months.

                         4.2.1   Provision of standpipes on the new site

63)      Water will be brought into the PK 12 area by means of standpipes to be installed in locations
that are strategic in terms of accessibility and benefit for users.

                         4.2.2   Latrine construction

64)    The program called for construction of 400 latrines at the PK 12 site to serve the flood victims.
The actual number built was 300; the other 100 could not be put in because of the higher prices
wanted for materials. The breakdown of the 300 built is as follows:

        100 latrines in homes built;
        200 latrines on plots already connected to services for future construction.

                4.3      Part C: "Technical Advice Services for Disaster Prevention and
                         Management"

                         4.3.1     Provision for technical design studies and supervision of
                                     rehabilitation activities

65)   Funding is programmed under this head for covering the cost of the various studies
commissioned by ADETIP.

                         4.3.2     Provision for training and strengthening of DMU

66)     The need for strengthening the Disaster Management Unit (SEGRC) was identified by the
different studies as one of the country's chief vulnerabilities. The first stage in the work involved was
to reorganize and dynamize the existing institutions. With the adoption of a new institutional
framework instituted by Law No. 140/N/06 plus Implementing Decree No. 2006-0192/PR/MID, the
Government established the bodies recommended by the pertinent studies.

67)      The national risk and disaster management strategy, prepared with the assistance of an
international consultant, has been made available to the authorities responsible for formulating
governmental policy. The relevant responsibilities are now well allocated among the decision-making,
technical and implementation levels together with a permanent administrative body, namely the
Executive Secretariat (SEGRC).

68)     In December 2006 the official installation of the Executive Secretariat was made effective
with the allocation to the MID of two rooms and the nomination of the Executive Secretary by Decree
No. 2006-0251/PR/MESN and the hiring of an assistant-accountant.

69)      On January 27, 2007, the Executive Secretariat officially commenced its work with the
meeting of the Intersectoral Risk and Disaster Management Committee. Throughout 2007, the
SEGRC continued to organize its different structures and participate in international events pertaining
to its sphere of activity.

70)    However, the SEGRC's performance falls short of what was programmed. The expected
administrative staffing has not been achieved, due primarily to the delay in recruiting the staff



                                                   28
required to head its four units,4 as recommended by the strategy and confirmed by the decree
establishing the ES. All things considered, the disbursement of the funds allocated has been limited
and relates mainly to the activities of the Executive Secretary and the assistant-accountant.

             4.4          Part D:   "Assistance for Management and Implementation of the Project"

71)     Included in the financing agreement between the donor and ADETIP, now ADDS, this part of
the project was designed to assist the contracting authority in the financial management of the project
in accordance with the World Bank's procedures. This work was done by ADETIP in accordance
with the recommendations formulated by the Bank mission sent for the purpose in November 2005.

72)   A second mission in March 2006 emphasized the need to follow the rules specified in
November 2005, and stressed the following for better performance in this context:

             Quarterly closing of the project accounts;
             Periodic reconciliation of the project accounts and the successive disbursements sent by
             the Bank in U.S. dollars and SDRs;
             Better tracking of project commitments, so that there will not be differences between
             actual commitments made by the agency's various units and the commitments entered in
             the accounts and recorded by the agency's financial directorate;
             The maintaining of an estimated plan of disbursements on an annual basis;
             The need to reflect the expenditures of the project and subprojects in full detail and in
             accordance with Bank practices in all financial statements relating to the project;
             The need for DAF approval for all payments of invoices prior to issuance of the relevant
             checks.

73)      ADETIP's progress in this field, achieved in light of these recommendations, has been fully
satisfactory. The disbursements, despite a justified slowdown due to the change in the dike-building
contractor, have also proceeded at the level planned.

        5.         Evaluation of Results

                   5.1    Evaluation indicators

74)     Beyond the actual figures, the assessment of the accomplishment of objectives is guided by
two essential considerations:

             The safety of the population as achieved by the minimizing and control of risks and the
             impact of the project in changing their welfare for the better: the before-and-after of the
             project must have created a process of social and economic transformation for the people;
             The works must have been satisfactorily completed and be of acknowledged value.

75)     The criteria set for each component of the project compare the particular objective of the
component with what was accomplished: the development of the basin is considered in terms of risk
reduction, the rehabilitation of infrastructure by the number of tasks completed and the number of
beneficiaries. The detailed indicators are presented in Annex 5.

             5.2          Restitution of Rehabilitated Infrastructure


4
    Article 12, Decree No. 2006-0192/PR/MID: unit responsible for resource mobilization and
administrative management, unit responsible for disaster preparation, unit responsible for
coordination of assistance operations, unit responsible for information and database management.


                                                    29
                         5.2.1     Component 1: Emergency Rehabilitation of Economic and
                                   Social Infrastructure

76)     The infrastructure items devastated by the floods have been rehabilitated and returned to use.
The items in question are:

            The protective dike for the Ambouli wadi basin: this dike, which was demolished by the
            1994 floods, has been completely rebuilt. Two stairways were planned to make it easier
            for people to cross from one side of the wadi to the other, but one was deemed sufficient
            and was duly built. The reconstruction provided an opportunity to widen the dike in
            places and to make five openings usable for letting water through at the Italy Bridge as
            compared with two previously. The dike protects the Ambouli district and the Cité
            Progrès. The illegal dwellings in the areas subject to flooding were removed and the
            people concerned have been moved to Km 12 and the rules governing building and
            residence in urban areas have been reviewed.
            Roads and drainage systems: the EDD roads, those of Cité Progrès and the Type E roads
            have been rehabilitated and returned to service (these roads decompose in various
            segments). A protective culvert was built at Km 68 on the RN1. Urban and interurban
            road traffic on the RN1 is back at its normal level. The sewer covers in the Arhiba and
            Einguela districts have been renovated and proper drainage of any water is once again
            assured. The Balbala 1, Arhiba, Farah Had, and Ambouli health centers have been
            rehabilitated.
            Water-supply infrastructure: parts needed to reactivate ONED's technical equipment, a
            truck-mounted crane, and maintenance products for the water produced have been
            supplied by the project. By the end of the project ONED's production and distribution
            system was up and running again. PK 12 has been connected to the ONED system by
            means of public standpipes.

                         5.2.2 Component 2: Basic Infrastructure for Km 12.

77)      The PK 12 area having been used to rehouse the displaced people, standpipes were installed
where they would be most helpful and 300 latrines were put in to facilitate the resettlement operation.
As a result of a reassessment of the budget concerned due to the price increases for materials, 200
latrines were constructed in the dwellings in the Citè Gargar made available for the homeless and a
further 100 were built on plots connected to services, making a total of 300 against the 400 initially
planned.

78)     The standpipes put in were four in number, and are managed by operators selected by the
people living in the area. They were installed at strategic points as requested by the beneficiaries; the
operators resell the water bought from ONED at a price plus a margin fixed by agreement with
ADETIP.

                         5.2.3   Component 3: Technical Assistance for Disaster Management

79)      Disaster management is now a complete mechanism with the formulation of a national
strategy, new rules governing how it is to be carried out, and new structures created. A new law and
an implementing decree have been adopted, translating the authorities' intention to respond
effectively to the challenges posed by disaster management and a permanent administrative body has
been created in the form of the Executive Secretariat for Risk and Disaster Management (SEGRC),
which has been assigned its own office accommodation.

80)    After moving into its new offices in February 2008, SEGRC drew up a database listing the
human and material resources to be mobilized in relief work.



                                                   30
81)      The main result of SEGRC's activities has been the holding of a series of workshops
throughout 2008. These workshops were aimed at local elected officials, the prefects of the regions,
the officers of the different army corps and of the National Police, and the NGOs. In addition, radio
spots were also used to make the general public aware of what was being done.

82)      The protocol of agreement on the flood-warning system is in place. From now on, under the
direction of SEGRC, the mechanism and the distribution of roles together with the tasks of each party
are clearly defined and well understood by those concerned.

83)     A final series of workshops was organized by SEGRC at the beginning of the year through
which the three neighborhood committees formed in Ambouli received training sessions. These
committees, established by Presidential Decree in August 2008,5 each include, under the chairmanship
of the Neighborhood Chief, one of the directors of the neighborhood schools, two leading citizens,
three representatives of the neighborhood associations, one local elected official residing in the
neighborhood and the oldest of the neighborhood imams.

84)      SEGRC, at the request of the Government within the framework of INDS, also participated in
the action plan and the implementation of this initiative in its particular field.

                5.3      Present Utility of the Rehabilitated Infrastructure

85)      The present utility of the rehabilitated infrastructure can be assessed on the basis of whether
or not it is operational, and secondly by the estimated number of users. The first point to be made
here is that infrastructure facilities damaged by the floods and subsequently included in the project are
now functioning. These are:


    a) The dike: the reconstruction of the dike made it possible, as intended, to resecure the
       surrounding area which prior to the project constituted a manifest danger to the people in and
       around it and to the public infrastructure. It can therefore fully be considered that after the
       execution of the project the dike now forms a bulwark for the local population against any
       overflowing of the Ambouli wadi during periods of high water and that channeling of the
       water out into the sea is assured;

    b) The roads: up to 5 km of urban roads have been rehabilitated and made available to users in
       the capital. RN1 is the main artery of the international corridor and carries, on the basis of a
       low estimate, between 500 and 600 vehicles per day in both directions. This is a major
       contribution within the transportation system serving the national economy. RN9 has also
       been rehabilitated, its availability is particularly important with the resumption of activities in
       the Goubet area, where salt production is taking off again in response to the interest displayed
       by new investors. This road is the country's main link with the northern regions for both
       economic operators and private individuals now that virtually no boat services are available
       any more. Each day RN9 carries about 20 minibuses and "bush taxis" covering the Tadjourah
       and Obock regions and from 10 to 20 cars and utility vehicles of the enterprises operating in
       the Goubet area, which raise the estimated traffic to around 40 vehicles per day;

    c) Drainage infrastructure: 500 sewer covers, duly cleaned and rehabilitated, have been installed.
       These covers, provided by the State and installed by the project, have considerably reduced
       the risk of accidents, especially for children who in the past have fallen in when the holes
       were left open. The Arhiba waste-water pumping station also benefited from the same works
       under the same terms;
5
    Decree No. 2008-0202-PR/MID of August 10, 2008, establishing a committee responsible for
assistance operations in each neighborhood of the capital.


                                                   31
d) Electromechanical equipment: the water and drainage sector needed 38 pieces of
   electromechanical equipment, all procured and installed by the project and without which the
   national operator would not have been able to perform its function;

e) One hydro-cureuse (machine for clearing pipes etc. by means of high-pressure water jets):
   the procurement of this machine was particularly helpful since not only is it operational but it
   is the only one in working order among those currently on hand;

f) Schools: the rehabilitated public schools are once again in service and receiving children in
   acceptable conditions. The equipment item and textbooks requested by the national education
   authorities were just what was needed and are being used every day by the children. A total
   of four neighborhood schools have been rehabilitated. Each primary school consists of six
   classes operating in two shifts of 50 students, making 600 students. All together the project's
   impact is being felt by nearly 1,200 children who once again have a school in their customary
   place of residence;

g) Health centers: rehabilitation of the public health centers was also a fundamental goal,
   because one is dealing with urban areas with a high concentration of low-income households
   who are hard-pressed to come up with cash for health-related expenses. The project
   accordingly rehabilitated four health centers, namely those of Ambouli, Farah-Had, Ibrahim
   Balala and Arhiba, which together have been 10,000 and 12,000 inhabitants, on the basis of
   which the project impact can be estimated at around 50,000 beneficiaries;

h) Water-supply infrastructure: to better understand the harm done by the floods, it should be
   borne in mind that the Ambouli pumping station accounts for more than 90 percent of the
   water production intended for the capital. After the disaster, the demolition of the station
   reduced ONED's ability to serve the capital to zero. Therefore almost the entire population of
   the metropolitan area, or nearly 300,000 people, was without drinking water after the floods.
   The project made it possible to reconstitute ONED's capacity and the items procured through
   the project are still in service;

i)   Standpipes: the receiving site for the rehoused households has been equipped with four
     standpipes installed in strategic locations determined in consultation with the beneficiaries.
     The number of beneficiaries among the 127 families involved is estimated at 700 persons;

j)   standpipe management committees: the original intention was that the standpipes should be
     managed by committees formed for the purpose, but in the end standpipe management was
     entrusted to operators selected from among the beneficiaries, so the water obtained at the four
     locations is now sold by four retailers on terms set by ADETIP;

k) Dry latrines: the project has constructed 200 latrines in the dwellings in Cité Gargar and put
   in 100 more on lots connected to services. Thanks to this pragmatic solution, the flood
   victims from the Ambouli wadi have been able to move into relatively satisfactory new
   homes;

l)   Strengthening of SEGCR: this component was completed within the framework of the
     project and is now operational. The establishment of the protocol of agreement covering the
     different parties has confirmed the roles of all concerned;

m) Assistance in managing implementation of the project for ADETIP: this made it possible to
   remedy the shortcomings found in the presentation of accounts in order to meet the World
   Bank's requirements.



                                               32
6.      The country's present Natural Disaster Response Plan

86)      The Natural Disaster Response Plan is a complex mechanism comprising physical
infrastructure, institutional reforms and social measures.

87)     The essential components include:

             The Ambouli dike, completely rebuilt to secure the city;
             A disaster early-warning system;
             With SEGRC, the creation of a permanent administrative body with wide-ranging
             prerogatives that will centralize and coordinate emergency actions;
             The existence of a rehabilitated storm water drainage system;
             The improvement of the drainage systems in the low-income neighborhoods.

88)      To complement these physical components, the Government is associating civil society in
surveillance of the wadi bed. With the support of the municipality, neighborhood committees have
been formed which are charged with discussing the preservation of public infrastructure and facilities
with the help of the beneficiary populations. Awareness-building spots have also been broadcast on
the popular national media. Thanks to this participatory approach, the Government is making the
population aware of the risk of disasters, together with their rights and also their duty to prevent
unauthorized building on sites exposed to disasters.

89)      For the longer term, the national plan consists in strengthening the works already in existence
by the building of a multipurpose dam at Nagad. This project, programmed for 2012, will make it
possible to slow the upstream water flow in such a way as to considerably reduce the pressure of
floods on the Ambouli wadi watershed. The aim is also to improve the flood-alert system by putting
in a permanent alarm. In order to lessen the pressure of the waters during flooding there are also
plans to reforest the slopes down which rainwater flows.

        7.      Lessons learned

90)      The main lesson learned from experience with the project concerns the complexity and
duality of an approach that consists in reconciling the actions to be implemented following a natural
disaster, and which are dictated necessarily by the urgency of the situation, and the integrated
development of an area or sector which, for its part, is necessarily the product of careful, thorough and
detailed study.

91)     The protection of the population, which is the responsibility of the public authorities, derives
from an approach based on a strategy and mobilization of adequate resources, whatever the field
concerned. This is all the more important with management of natural and non-natural disasters,
which by their suddenness and impact are irreducible and devastating. The reduction of
vulnerabilities to risks is a complex undertaking in which the PRUSI constitutes one stage--definitely
an important one, but insufficient. Being a partial response, because prepared primarily to reactivate
the functioning of the country's vital infrastructure by easing and lessening the social and
environmental impacts, it offers a partial protection against natural disasters.

92)     The long-term management of the Ambouli wadi (especially its financial management)
increases the difficulty to overcome its rehabilitation and development. This involves a number of
actors (civil engineering, SEGRC) whose functioning and coordination will have to be refined in
order to ensure the lasting value of what has been achieved, both for its maintenance and for disaster-
prevention purposes.

93)     Regarding the dike, it is designed to withstand a maximum flow of 1500 m3/second. As long
as the Nagad dam is not built, the dike is the sole protection against floods. On a risk scale running


                                                   33
from 0 to 100, if the disaster risk with what is presently in place is estimated at 40, this risk could be
significantly reduced to 10 if the Nagad dam is built and performing its function.




                                                   34
                      Annex 3: Map showing location of works
                CARTE DE L'AGGLOMERATION DE DJIBOUTI = MAP OF DJIBOUTI CITY AREA
Légende = Key   Digue = Dike Centre de santé = Health Center
                École = School Réinstallation des déplacés = Resettlement area




                                  35
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                                       NA




                                       36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Description
   1. Memorandum of the President
   2. Project Paper
   3. Technical Annex

   Legal Documents
   4. Agreement Amending Agreement
   5. Developing Financing Agreement
   6. Project Agreement

   QAG
   7. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7)

   Aides Memoires (AM)
   8. AM mission October 2004
   9. AM mission March 2005
   10. AM mission June 2005
   11. AM mission November 2005
   12. AM mission May 2006
   13. AM mission December 2006
   14. AM mission May 2007
   15. AM mission December 2007
   16. AM mission May 2008
   17. AM mission November 2008
   18. AM mission May 2009

   Implementation Status Report (ISR)
   19. ISR 1 ­ October 2004
   20. ISR 2 ­ December 2004
   21. ISR 3 ­ April 2005
   22. ISR 4 ­ July 2005
   23. ISR 5 ­ December 2005
   24. ISR 6 ­ May 2006
   25. ISR 7 ­ July 2006
   26. ISR 8 ­ December 2006
   27. ISR 9 ­ February 2007
   28. ISR 10 ­ July 2007
   29. ISR 11 ­ February 2008
   30. ISR 12 ­ June 2008
   31. ISR 13 ­ December 2008

   Implementation Completion Report
   Rapport d'achèvement de l'emprunteur, July 2009
   Rapport Bceom Supervision, September 2007 ­ June 2009
   Rapport Martial Gayrand, September 2009




                                                 37
38
