                                      Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00003050



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2250)



                                        ON A

                                      GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.24 MILLION
                      (US$ 17.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                       FOR A

              AFGHANISTAN URBAN WATER SECTOR PROJECT



                              December 23, 2014




Water Global Practice
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective 12/07/2014)
                     Currency Unit = Afghani (Afs)
                           1.00 = US$ 0.017
                           US$ 1.00 = 57.55


                          FISCAL YEAR 2015



                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



Afs         Afghani
ARDS        Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services
ARTF        Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
AUWSSC      Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation
AUWSSC-HQ   AUWSSC Headquarters
CAWSS       Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage
EIRP        Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project
IDA         International Development Association
IFR         Interim Financial Reports
KfW         German Government-Owned Development Bank
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MoU         Memorandum of Understanding
MTP         Medium Term Program
MUDA        Ministry of Urban Development Affairs
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PDO         Project Development Objectives
SBU         Strategic Business Unit
STP         Short Term Program


                       Vice President: Annette Dixon
                     Country Director: Robert J. Saum
                      Sector Manager: William Kingdom
                 Project Team Leader: Deepali Tewari
                    ICR Team Leader: Deepali Tewari
                                                    AFGHANISTAN

                                 Afghanistan Urban Water Sector Project

                                                        CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph



  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 44
A. Basic Information
                                                                         AF:     Urban  Water
Country:               Afghanistan                Project Name:
                                                                         Sector Project
Project ID:            P087860                    L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H2250
ICR Date:              12/23/2014                 ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                         ISLAMIC
                                                                         TRANSITIONAL
Lending Instrument:    ERL                        Borrower:
                                                                         STATE OF
                                                                         AFGHANISTAN
Original         Total
                       XDR 27.90M             Disbursed Amount:          XDR 11.93M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        XDR 12.24M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Afghanistan Urban and Water Supply and Sanitation Components
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process          Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/31/2005        Effectiveness:          12/27/2006      12/27/2006
                                                                                06/01/2010
                                                                                10/01/2010
Appraisal:            02/20/2006        Restructuring(s):
                                                                                06/27/2012
                                                                                03/25/2014
Approval:             05/25/2006        Mid-term Review:                        11/02/2008
                                        Closing:                06/30/2010      06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                        Ratings
                                                                         Moderately
Quality at Entry:      Unsatisfactory             Government:
                                                                         Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                          Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank           Moderately                 Overall Borrower
                                                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:           Unsatisfactory             Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                                 Rating
      Performance                                  (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                  Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                       (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                     Quality of
                           Yes                                 None
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            27                    27
Water supply                                                 73                    73


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                 29
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction          29
Infrastructure services for private sector development        14                    2
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization        28                   98

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Annette Dixon                  Praful C. Patel
Country Director:         Robert J. Saum                 Alastair J. McKechnie
Practice
                          William D. Kingdom             Sonia Hammam
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:      Deepali Tewari                 Christophe E. Bosch
ICR Team Leader:          Deepali Tewari
ICR Primary Author:       Pratibha Mistry

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
At appraisal, the project development objective was: 'to assist the Recipient to develop
the capacity of the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation for
operational management and investment planning and implementation. The project
objectives will be to initiate actions to: (i) transform CAWSS into a technically viable
operation; (ii) establish the financial sustainability of the Afghanistan Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation Company UWSSC - CAWSS successor); (iii) increase access to
and reliability of the water supply service in Kabul; and (iv) prepare a follow-up project
under which more substantial institutional and financial objectives could be achieved and
coverage further expanded in Kabul and provincial towns'.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised project development objective was to assist the Recipient to develop the
capacity of the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation for
operational management and investment planning and implementation.

  The indicators reported below are for the restructured project. Only 2.5% of the original
grant amount had been disbursed towards the end of the original grant period, prior to
restructuring, to support the capacity building objective of the project. The project was
implemented as the restructured project and the indicators below are as approved for the
restructured project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally
                                                                               Actual Value Achieved at
                                                Values (from         Revised
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                             Completion or Target
                                                  approval           Target
                                                                                        Years
                                                 documents)          Values
Indicator 1 :     Number of water utilities that the project is supporting
Value
quantitative or   0                         1                                  1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2010                06/01/2010                         06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The core indicator was incorporated at restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   AUWSSC is fully corporatized and took over operation in urban areas
                                                                             AUWSSC fully
                                          AUWSSC took                        corporatized. Urban
Value                                     over operation in                  operations expanded to 43
quantitative or Not achieved              all urban areas                    towns (direct operations in
Qualitative)                              where CAWSS                        38 towns and joint
                                          was operating                      operations with local
                                                                             municipalities in 5 towns)
Date achieved 06/01/2010                  06/01/2010                         06/30/2014
                Corporatization Features: AUWSSC accountable to its Board of Directors (BoD);
Comments
                Ministry of Urban Development Affairs appoints BoD Members; BoD accountable to
(incl. %
                Ministry; BoD appoints senior executives in AUWSSC; BoD responsible for AUWSSC's
achievement)
                financial results
Indicator 3 : Number of household connections in Kabul provided by small scale local providers
Value
quantitative or 0                         500                                1,200
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2010                  06/01/2010                         06/30/2014
Comments
                The pilot scheme by small scale providers currently benefits 1,200 households and is
(incl. %
                expected to be extended to a further 800 households by the private operator.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target
                                                              Formally Actual Value Achieved
                                             Values (from
   Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised    at Completion or
                                               approval
                                                            Target Values   Target Years
                                             documents)
Indicator 1 :     Financial statements of AUWSSC is produced and audited
Value
(quantitative     AUWSSC is a new entity 2                                    4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2010                   06/01/2010                     06/30/2014
Comments
                  Financial statements were produced and audited for four financial years: FY 1388
(incl. %
                  (2009/10), 1389 (2010/11), 1390 (2011/12), and 1391 (2012/13).
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Accounts receivable (months)
Value
(quantitative     3.5*                         2.0                            3.0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2010                 06/01/2010                      06/30/2014
Comments          The accounts receivable was defined as: Accounts receivable = (Year-end accounts
(incl. %          receivable/total annual operating revenues) x 12.
achievement)      *from restructuring paper
Indicator 3 :     Working Ratio
Value
(quantitative     1.17                         1.0                            0.68
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2010                   06/01/2010                     06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Calculated as Total Annual Expenses excluding Depreciation/Total Annual Revenue
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Average per connection collections (Afs)
Value
(quantitative     988                          1,400*                         2,363
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2010                   06/01/2010                     06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          *from restructuring paper.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of samples tested meeting residual chlorine standards (%)
Value
(quantitative     No data                      95%*                           80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2010                 06/01/2010                          06/30/2014
Comments          Actual value reported at project close but could not be verified. Procurement of
(incl. %          chlorine included in the revised procurement plan had to be dropped due to delays.
achievement)      *from restructuring paper.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                                                             Actual Disbursements
 No.                                     DO                               IP
           Archived                                                                                (USD millions)
   1      04/06/2007        Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                      0.00
   2      08/28/2007        Moderately Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                            0.00
   3      05/01/2008           Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory                            0.00
   4      08/28/2008           Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory                            0.00
                                 Moderately                       Moderately
   5      05/29/2009                                                                                          0.00
                               Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
                                 Moderately                       Moderately
   6      07/29/2009                                                                                          1.00
                               Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
                                 Moderately                       Moderately
   7      01/29/2010                                                                                          1.00
                               Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
  8       11/10/2010        Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                          1.03
  9       06/26/2011        Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                          1.18
  10      05/31/2012            Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory                          3.48
  11      11/04/2012            Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory                          4.35
  12      06/12/2013            Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory                          5.28
  13      12/22/2013        Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                          6.82
                                 Moderately                       Moderately
 14*      06/14/2014                                                                                        11.90
                               Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
  15      06/30/2014        Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                        15.08
*On June 14, 2014 the project was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory to emphasize the need for client action on disbursement
delays and audit completions. This was upgraded back to Moderately Satisfactory in the final supervision mission at the end of
June 2014.


H. Restructuring (if any)
                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                 Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                                                     Reason for Restructuring & Key
                Approved                Restructuring
    Date(s)                                                                                Changes Made
               PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                          millions
                                                                               Extension of the grant closing date for 3
                                                                               months, from June 30, 2010 to
   06/01/2010                N            MU        MU               1.00
                                                                               September 30, 2010 to allow time for
                                                                               Level 1 restructuring.
                                                                               Cancellation of Component 3:
                                                                               Extension of Kabul Water Supply
   10/01/2010                Y            MU        MU               1.03
                                                                               System. Extension of closing date from
                                                                               September 30, 2010 to June 30. 2012
                                                                               Extension of closing date from June 30,
   06/27/2012                              S        MS               3.48      2012 to June 30, 2014. Reallocation
                                                                               between disbursement categories.
                                                                               Creation of one combined Disbursement
   03/25/2014                             MS        MS               8.61      Category, elimination of monetary
                                                                               thresholds
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:
                                                              Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                       Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                   Moderately Satisfactory



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Sector Background. In the aftermath of September 11, 2001,
major changes took place in the political and military situation in Afghanistan: the first
post-war President was elected and a new Cabinet was inaugurated in 2004, and a new
Parliament was sworn in on December 19, 2005. The challenges of establishing national
unity, developing institutions, and implementing the Government’s long term vision for
development remained significant. The country’s economic infrastructure had been
devastated after decades of conflict, and most Afghans had little or no access to basic
services. In 2005, piped water coverage was estimated at 18%, among the lowest in the
world. The majority of urban households abstracted water from contaminated boreholes,
open wells, springs or streams. Sewerage coverage was limited to a few Soviet-era
apartment complexes in Kabul that served less than 2% of the population.

2.      The Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage (CAWSS) was a
department within the Ministry of Urban Development Affairs (MUDA1) responsible for
urban service delivery across the country. There were functional gaps and overlapping
responsibilities between CAWSS and municipalities. CAWSS was responsible for urban
service delivery, and municipalities were responsible for on-site sanitation through their
local departments of sanitation. CAWSS’s operational, commercial and financial
performance was poor. During the period of conflict, communication with the provincial
towns was difficult, and regional operations were managed autonomously.

3.      The Government’s Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS)
(March 2006) identified water supply and sanitation as a priority area for public
infrastructure investment. As part of its efforts to meet the Millennium Development
Goals, the Government aimed to supply piped water by 2010 to 50% of households in
Kabul, and 30% of households in other major urban centers. To achieve this target, the
Government developed the Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Policy, Urban
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Institutional Development Plan, and the Presidential
Decree to corporatize CAWSS to the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage
Corporation (AUWSSC). These policies underscored the government’s commitment to
extend access, improve sustainability of service provision, and emphasize full cost
recovery and financial sustainability of service providers.

4.     Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Bank re-engaged in Afghanistan in 2002
with the US$ 37.6 million IDA financed Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction
Project (EIRP) (2002-2006). This multi-sector project formed the basis for the Bank’s
subsequent sector specific projects in urban reconstruction, water supply and sanitation,


1
    Formerly Ministry for Urban Development (MoUD).


                                                 1
and power. The Government developed the Short Term Program (STP) (2005-2007) and
the Medium Term Program (MTP) (2007-2011) as urban water supply and sanitation
sector investment plans to channel donor efforts more effectively.

5.      The Bank’s Transitional Support Strategy of March 2003 identified water supply
and sanitation as a key priority for investment and a series of follow on projects from
EIRP were planned to support the sector. STP investments were packaged for support
under the Afghanistan Short Term Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project (P092162)
financed by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) and approved in 2005.
MTP investments were packaged under this project, the Afghanistan Urban Water Sector
Project (AUWSP), an Emergency Response Loan approved in May 2006. Both projects
were concurrently prepared by the same task team.

6.      The Bank’s strong in-country presence and development leadership supported the
Government’s efforts to coordinate donor activities in the sector. The Bank’s knowledge
of operating effectively in fragile and post conflict states was evolving. Afghanistan
remained highly unstable and insecure. There was continuing insurgency, municipal
governments were weak, and internal revenue generation was tenuous. It was clear that in
addition to the planned development programs, even the maintenance of existing services
would have to rely on external funding for the foreseeable future. Donors were very
active in Afghanistan during this time and the largest donors in the sector at that time
were the German development agencies and IDA.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     The PDO was phrased differently in the project’s Technical Annex 2 and
Financing Agreement. In the Technical Annex the project’s objectives were:

“…to initiate actions to: (i) transform CAWSS into a technically viable operation; (ii)
establish the financial sustainability of the Afghan Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
Company (AUWSSC - CAWSS successor); (iii) increase access to and reliability of the
water supply service in Kabul; and (iv) prepare a follow-up project under which more
substantial institutional and financial objectives could be achieved and coverage further
expanded in Kabul and provincial towns.”

8.        In the Financing Agreement the PDO was stated as:

“… to assist the Recipient in increasing access to, and reliability of, the water supply and
sewerage service in its urban centers by: (i) establishing adequate institutional
arrangements for the management of water supply and sewerage; and (ii) extending the
water supply system in Kabul.”



2
    Report Number P7670-AF


                                             2
9.     The Technical Annex included the following key indicators::

Commercial performance per Strategic Business Unit (SBU) (and other AUWSSC
operations): Number of total and billed connections per category of customer; Population
served and service ratio; Production and sales (m3/year); Metering, billing and collection
(m3/year and Afs); and Non-Revenue Water (%).

Financial Performance per SBU (and other AUWSSC operations and AUWSSC/HQ):
Operating cost, including electricity, fuel, chemicals, parts, maintenance (Afs); Staff
costs, including salaries and bonuses (Afs); Management costs, including salaries and
bonuses (Afs); Revenues per SBU per category of customer (Afs); Accounts receivable
per category of customer (days of billing); and Working Ratio (%).

Service Performance per SBU/other operations: Per connection and per capita production
and sales (liters per capita per day); and Percentage of samples tested meeting residual
chlorine standards (%).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.     By the end of the grant period in 2010, the project could not be implemented due
to: (i) an unrealistic project design that did not integrate the post-conflict context and
lessons emerging from other projects under implementation; (ii) the use of disbursement
conditions that could not be realistically met; (iii) increasing politicization of the
transition from CAWSS to AUWSSC; and (iv) delays in the preparation of detailed
designs for the infrastructure component that was financed by external donors.

11.    Due to implementation delays and significant cost escalations, US$23 million of
the grant committed to Component 3: Extension of Kabul Water Supply System Works
was cancelled. Two additional activities were included in the project: (i) the preparation
of a new water supply project for Kabul, and (ii) implementation of a pilot scheme for
water supply expansion by private operators.

12.     To reflect these changes the project development objective was revised to: to
assist the Recipient to develop the capacity of the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and
Sewerage Corporation for operational management and investment planning and
implementation. PDO level indicators were revised to: i) Number of water utilities that
the project is supporting; ii) AUWSSC is fully corporatized and took over operation in
urban areas; iii) Number of household connections in Kabul provided by small scale local
providers.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

13.    As originally designed, the following benefits were intended for the primary
beneficiaries: i) AUWSSC would increase its capacity for operational management,


                                            3
investment planning and implementation, benefitting approximately 1.5 million people
being served in the urban areas (of which 0.74 million female); and ii) an estimated
600,000 (of which 294,000 female) residents of Kabul city would gain access to piped
water through the Logar II scheme.

14.    After restructuring in 2010 the primary beneficiaries were: i) AUWSSC, to
improve operational management, investment planning and implementation for
approximately 1.5 million people being served in the urban areas (of which 0.74 million
female); and ii) 500 households in Kabul being connected using small scale local
providers.

1.5 Original Components

15.     To achieve the project development objective, the project was designed around
the following three components:

Component 1: Institutional Development of AUWSSC (US$ 8.2 million)

16.    Reorganization of CAWSS into a public corporation to be responsible for the
management and development of urban water supply and sewerage assets and for the
provision of quality water supply and sewerage services in urban areas, through the
provision of legal and technical advisory services.

17.     Development and enhancement of capacity in the newly formed AUWSSC,
through the provision of technical assistance and training for, among other things: (i) the
preparation of operations, procurement, accounting and financial management
procedures; (ii) the monitoring and management of environment and social issues; (iii)
human resource development; (iv) the carrying out of feasibility studies and surveys; (v)
the carrying out of audits; and (vi) the carrying out of financial management, planning
and design, and management and implementation of water supply and sewerage activities.

18.    Strengthening and improving the institutional capacities of SBUs through, among
other things, the preparation and execution of memoranda of understandings between
AUWSSC's headquarters and each SBU.

19.    Designing of a public private partnership arrangement for the management of
water supply and sewerage services in selected cities.

Component 2: Financial Support to AUWSSC (US$ 5.5 million)

20.    Strengthening of the newly created AUWSSC, through the provision of financial
support, including payment of: (i) operations and maintenance costs including salaries of
non-managerial was capped at 45% of expenses incurred in FY07 within the limit of
US$1 .9 million, 30% of expenses incurred in FY08 within the limit of US$1 .5 million
and 15% of expenses incurred in FY09 within the limit of US$1 million; (ii) salaries of
managerial staff at 100% of expenses incurred within the limit of US$300,000 per year in

                                            4
FY07, 08 and 09; and (iii) bonuses of managerial staff at 100% of expenses incurred
within the limit of US$100,000 per year in FY07, 08 and 09.

Component 3: Extension of the Kabul Water Supply System (US$ 18.3 million)

21.     Increasing access to and reliability of the water supply service in Kabul by
developing the Logar II Water Supply Scheme through, among other things, the
development and equipping of a well field, the construction of a pumping station, the
supply and laying of pipes and equipment for the construction of a transmission line and
the extension of the distribution network, and the construction of a reservoir.

22.      The US$40.0 million from IDA was supplemented with US$24.5 million of
parallel financing from German development agencies, which were to provide
institutional development to transform CAWSS into the independent corporate utility
AUWSSC, invest in the first phase of the medium term investment plan for urban water
supply infrastructure, prepare the detailed engineering designs and costing, and conduct
construction supervision.

1.6 Revised Components

23.    When the project was restructured (Level 1) in 2010, the following changes were
made: Component 1: Institutional development of AUWSSC was modified to include i)
preparation of an investment program to increase water supply for Kabul; and ii) the
development and implementation of a pilot scheme to expand water supply services by
small private operators. There were no changes to Component 2: Financial support to
AUWSSC operations. Component 3: Extension of the Kabul water supply system was
cancelled.

1.7 Other significant changes

24.     On December 1 2006 IDA granted a month’s extension to the effectiveness
deadline to allow more time for the signing of a co-financing agreement between the
German Development Cooperation and the Government of Afghanistan. On June 23,
2010 the closing date was extended by three months from June 30, 2010 to September 30,
2010 to allow for the Bank’s internal processing of the Level 1 restructuring. The Level 1
restructuring was completed on October 1, 2010 which established June 30, 2012 as the
revised closing date.

25.     On June 27 2012, the closing date of the project was extended to June 30, 2014 to
allow for: (i) completion of technical assistance tasks; (ii) compilation of AUWSSC’s
financial statements and their audit to enable the Government to comply with the legal
covenant regarding AUWSSC’s audits and claim reimbursement of operating costs; (iii)
continuation of contracts for AUWSSC management that would otherwise end on June
30, 2012; and (iv) preparation of bidding documents for the next phase of investments.
The requirement for audited financial statements in the project design called for the


                                            5
granting of an exception to the Bank’s financial management policy BP10.02 first, before
the closing date could be extended.

26.    On March 25 2014, the project was restructured and the following changes
approved: (i) creation of one combined Disbursement Category to enable AUWSSC to
claim the allowed percentage of O&M expenditures permitted by the Financing
Agreement; and (ii) elimination of monetary thresholds, without changing the
percentages allocated for disbursements against operating costs. The allocation for
bonuses to managerial staff and the ‘Unallocated’ category were removed to allow further
reimbursement of operating costs. On October 29, 2014 the disbursement deadline of the
grace period was extended by two months from October 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

27.     Soundness of background analysis. In spite of project teams sharing technical
expertise, knowledge of emerging lessons from the implementation of other projects was
not sufficiently incorporated into the project design. For example, the risk of delays from
donor financed activities was emerging from the IDA financed Kabul Urban
Reconstruction Project (P083919), where water production investments to be financed
and implemented by KfW had not been completed when this project was appraised in
2006. A rapid analysis of AUWSSC’s performance and projections of future performance
were conducted with limited data collected over a six month period under the ARTF
project. This analysis was used to determine improvement targets for revenues, cost
recovery, and the levels of the declining operating subsidy that were unrealistic and based
on data that was not fully representative.

28.     Assessment of project design. Conceptually, project design was consistent with
international practice in utility reform. However, it failed to sufficiently factor in the
capacity of implementing staff, the political and legal context of the post conflict state,
and the lack of data and information on public institutions. The project was designed on
the premise of AUWSSC being established before disbursements could be made against
the project, even though AUWSSC had not yet been established as a legal entity at
appraisal. AUWSSC was only the second State Owned Enterprise to be corporatized
under the Commercial Law of Afghanistan, and the legal framework was still being
established. During preparation, the Institutional Development Plan was approved and the
Presidential Decree for corporatization was secured. However, the statutes were still to be
approved by Cabinet and AUWSSC was still to be registered as a public corporation with
the Afghanistan Investment Support Agency.

29.    Project preparation did not adequately take account of the fact that during the
period of conflict there were no functioning processes for the legal registration of land
and other facilities, in both the central government cadaster and in the municipalities. The
Procedures for Corporatization of State-Owned Enterprises required the creation of a list

                                             6
of CAWSS assets and liabilities. This resulted in a lengthy process for asset re-
registration, assessment and title transfer from CAWSS to AUWSSC that delayed the
corporatization process.

30.     Project preparation did not consider the scope of the undertaking to prepare
financial statements, including the challenges of asset transfer. Project design required
the preparation and audit of financial statements from the start of the project, and did not
allow for the establishment of data collection and reporting processes before requiring
audited financial statements. CAWSS did not maintain proper books of accounts and
underlying accounting records, and did not even have a simple asset register in place.

31.     The infrastructure component was not ready for implementation at the time of
approval. Even though during preparation it was confirmed that “detailed designs are
ready and bidding documents can be prepared before end 2006 by consultants” it was
almost 18 months later, in June 2008, that the ISR notes that the Consultant was “now
finalizing the cost estimates based on the detailed design.”

32.     Further complexity was introduced by the declining operating subsidy to be
implemented over three years. In the post-conflict context, it was unlikely that revenue
collection could be improved substantially over just three years, and it was known that a
major tariff increase was required to reach cost recovery. The declining operating subsidy
allowance led to unrealistic caps which became an impediment to AUWSSC’s ability to
claim the full percentage of O&M costs permitted under the Financing Agreement.

33.     Assessment of risks. The risk assessment was not comprehensive, especially
when implementing reforms in the political and legal context of the post conflict state.
The project recognized major delays with CAWSS corporatization as an institutional risk
to the project. The grant covenants in the legal agreement were intended to mitigate the
risks by allowing the Bank to exercise legal remedies if required. The covenants were not
designed appropriately, and eventually prevented the government from accessing grant
funds for any productive use. Risks related to the lack of data and information, and
procurement delays, were not recognized. The project did not consider donor
coordination and joint implementation with the German development agencies as a risk,
even though donor financed activities in other projects were facing delays. The project’s
dependence on KfW for delivery of consulting services, the interconnected nature of the
works to be financed by the two partners, which were to be procured under different
agencies and rules, presented a major risk to implementation that was not recognized
during preparation.

2.2 Implementation

34.      The corporatization of AUWSSC was a disbursement condition that could not be
realistically achieved in the timeframe developed during preparation, and led to the
situation where the allocated financing could not be productively used at all over the
original grant period. Eventually, the Articles of Incorporation of the new AUWSSC

                                             7
were approved by the Cabinet on July 9, 2007 and gazetted by the Ministry of Justice on
July 11, 2007. CAWSS was effectively dissolved in 2009. It was only when AUWSSC
was established in May 2009 could the project implementation begin in earnest.

35.     Implementation delays. The following contributed to delays in project
implementation (i) delays in the recruitment of the Management Team; (ii) delays in the
recruitment of the technical assistance consulting firm to provide technical assistance for
a three year period, which subsequently required an extension to the grant closing date;
and (iii) insufficient procurement capacity within AUWSSC.

36.     Performance of consultancies. There were two major consultancies in the
project to (i) provide technical assistance to help operationalize AUWSSC by providing
management and operational assistance for improved efficiency, commercialization and
expansion; (ii) prepare a priority investment program in unserved areas in the eastern part
of Kabul City that was ready for bidding. Delays in consultant procurement, mobilization
and replacement of key staff during implementation resulted in consulting firms not
providing adequate technical expertise and having insufficient time to complete the
assignments to the required quality. At the same time AUWSSC did not have sufficient
experience or expertise to manage consultant contracts and review outputs.

37.     Security. Project activities were delayed due to deterioration in the security
situation, particularly in 2013, when the political and security transition was compounded
by the protracted impasse around the Presidential elections, restricting travel and
resulting in consultants leaving unexpectedly.

38.    Disbursement delays. The Ministry of Finance’s Special Disbursement Unit
(SDU) insisted on approving withdrawal applications against audited operating costs,
even though this was not a grant condition. Delays in the preparation of the financial
statements resulted from a first set of financial statements prepared by the donor partner
being found to be unreliable, requiring them to be prepared for the second time. Further
delays were caused by AUWSSC, which did not have a systematic process in place to
submit withdrawal applications and follow-up on them rigorously.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

39.      M&E design. Indicators developed during project design are generally accepted
indicators to monitor commercial, financial and service performance of utilities. The
indicators were data intensive and impractical for AUWSSC to collect, especially in the
earlier years of project implementation. AUWSSC did not have any systems and
processes in place to collect operational and financial data from SBUs and collate it at
HQ level. The restructured PDO level indicators did not sufficiently represent the PDO
and monitor progress towards its achievement. Intermediate results indicators in the
restructured project were simplified to measure key performance areas that were more
realistic to measure.



                                            8
40.     M&E implementation. The development of a management information system
was built into the project design as part of the technical support consultancy. However,
delays in procurement of the technical support consultant led to insufficient time being
left in the contract to develop a comprehensive management information system.
AUWSSC Operations Department developed a manual system to collect operational data
from SBUs and consolidates it at AUWSSC HQ. The AUWSSC Finance Department
collects financial data from SBUs for the preparation of financial statements. Since data
is collected separately, there are sometimes discrepancies in reported data. Since the
recruitment of an internal auditor in December 2013, the Finance Department is
developing templates and procedures to improve data collection and data quality.

41.     M&E utilization. Annual financial reports were produced by the Finance
Department that were audited by an external auditor. Operations data was collected, and
consolidated quarterly by the Operations Department. There is recognition within
AUWSSC for the need for a more systemized approach to data collection, storage and
use to drive decision making and resource allocation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

42.     The project was rated Category B, and the following safeguard policies were
triggered during appraisal in 2006, in context of the construction of the Logar II water
supply scheme: Operational Policy 4.01 Environmental Assessment; Operational Policy
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement; and Operational Policy 11.03 Cultural Property. An
environmental and social management framework was developed in keeping with
emergency operations in Afghanistan. After restructuring, the infrastructure component
was cancelled and the scope of the project was limited to institutional development of
AUWSSC and project preparation for a new proposed project. The restructured project
remained Category B, no additional safeguards were triggered and the environmental and
social management framework remained in effect. One pilot scheme for small scale
providers was implemented, where a mitigation plan for short term impacts was included
in the contract for the small civil works component.

Financial Management

43.     AUWSSC maintained acceptable financial management arrangements for the
project funds and acceptable Interim Financial Reports (IFR) were submitted in a timely
manner. In 2013 there were deficiencies in the quality of the quarterly IFRs, but these
were subsequently rectified and accepted by the Bank. Financial management
performance ratings reflected the need for strengthening internal controls such as internal
audits and improvements to the annual work program and budget planning. There were
no internal control accountability issues. Project annual financial reports were prepared
and acceptable audit reports for the financial years were received within six months of the
end of the financial year.

                                            9
44.     The preparation of corporate financial statements was delayed, but by project
close four sets of financial statements (Afghan years 1388 (2009/10), 1389 (2010/11), 1390
(2011/12), and 1391 (2012/13)) were completed and audit reports were submitted. The
following issues were included as part of the audit observations: (i) insufficient
information on the basis, methods, rates and assumptions in the valuation of assets
transferred from CAWSS to AUWSSC; (ii) insufficient accounting and financial
reporting systems consisting of procedures and records to report transactions and
maintain books of accounts; and (iii) lack of oversight and monitoring mechanisms over
operations and financial reporting.

Procurement

45.    A procurement plan was developed and the Bank’s procurement guidelines were
followed. Procurement responsibility for the first six months was with the consultants
financed from the Afghanistan Short Term Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(P092162), and subsequently with a Technical Advisor for MUDA, for the next three
years. The key issue affecting procurement was poor engineering designs, which led to
inaccurate cost estimations. Significant cost escalations and extended construction
timelines led to the cancellation of the works component.

46.     After the project was restructured, procurement responsibility lay with AUWSSC,
and procurement was through the centralized Afghanistan Reconstruction and
Development Services (ARDS) established in 2003. The departure of key procurement
and finance managers, and the deteriorating security conditions in 2013, resulted in a gap
in the development of a complete procurement filing system, in which all records were to
be transferred from ARDS to AUWSSC. Procurement skills and staffing within
AUWSSC were limiting factors. Delays in the procurement of managers, advisors and
consultants contributed to project delays. Due to the conflict environment, there was a
lack of response from adequately qualified and experienced professionals, and job
advertisements often had to be issued more than once for most positions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47.     Afghanistan faces immense political and economic uncertainties with the
drawdown of international military forces by the end of 2014. The economy is highly
dependent on development aid, which is expected to decline as international attention
shifts and aid budgets in many donor countries come under increasing fiscal pressure.

48.     In the urban water supply and sanitation sector, most aid has been directly
delivered by donors outside the government budget. The Bank has been the only source
of ongoing operational budget support in the sector. Despite only five years of active
operation as AUWSSC, substantial progress has been made towards achieving cost
recovery, with an increase in tariffs, improved metering and leakage reduction, as
described in Section 3. However, these gains are at risk unless continued operational
support is provided to sustain market based salaries, strengthen corporate governance,

                                           10
improve systems and processes for operations, maintenance, billing and collections, and
extend water supply coverage.

49.      The Bank has the ability to leverage sizable investments over an extended period
to facilitate and sustain reform processes during the political and economic transition. In
the Afghanistan Interim Strategy Note 2012-2014, the Bank proposed to “refresh its
commitment to the urban sector through …..a restructured or new Urban Water Project
to extend further assistance to AUWSSC and investments in urban water systems in
Kabul, and a scale up of the ongoing operation”. To this end, the project has financed the
design of priority investments in water and sewerage in unserved areas in the Eastern part
of Kabul City that can be adopted in a subsequent project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

50.     The project was not implemented as originally designed and only 2.5% of the
original grant amount was disbursed towards the end of the original grant period for
financial support to AUWSSC operations. Project activities began in earnest and
outcomes were achieved under the restructured project. The assessment of outcomes is
therefore based on the restructured PDO and results achieved after restructuring.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Substantial

51.     The restructured project’s objectives and design to develop the capacity of
AUWSSC for improved operational management and investment planning for the future
remain highly relevant in the context of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy
(2008-2013)3. The Social and Economic Development Pillar aims to increase access to
improved basic urban infrastructure and services, while promoting sustainable economic
growth. The strategy sets out, as a short term objective, the establishment of AUWSSC as
a new institution for urban water supply management, and as an intermediate objective,
the extension of urban water supply networks to provide access to piped water to 50% of
households in Kabul, and 30% of households in other main urban centers. Improved
urban and water services is a key element of the Bank’s Afghanistan Interim Strategy
Note FY12-14 4 . Under Strategic Objective 2 Equitable Service Delivery, the Bank
recognizes the need to provide basic services and build inclusive institutions at the same
time. The objective, design and implementation of the restructured project remains
substantial in the context of the country’s needs, government priorities and the Bank’s
strategy.



3
    Latest available

4
    Latest available


                                            11
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Substantial

Development of AUWSSC’s capacity for operational management

52.     Corporatization of AUWSSC. The corporatization of AUWSSC was a
significant reform for the sector. The transformation of CAWSS, a conventional
government department with a traditional culture and approach to service provision, to
AUWSSC, which was set up as an independent corporate entity with an externally
recruited management structure, accountability to a Board of Directors, and specific
mandate to become a profitable business, was an immense change to the status quo that
came with substantial internal resistance. Ongoing financial support for operations and
oversight through the project structure played a key role in ensuring that these reforms
were implemented.

53.     Management. The management team, recruited competitively between May 2009
and October 2010, was instrumental in maintaining the corporate mind-set within
AUWSSC. Initial results in 2011 showed AUWSSC expanding its operation in three
provincial towns, and carrying development, procurement and construction supervision
in-house. Having a strong management team in place was a critical element of the change
process, and continues to strongly influence the direction of the nascent utility. Once
AUWSSC was established and the senior management team was in place, all further
recruitment became the responsibility of AUWSSC and its Board. The threat of political
interference in staffing remains and undermines AUWSSC’s continued transformation.
Full management salaries were paid from the project at market rates. AUWSSC has
demonstrated improved financial performance and the extent to which AUWSSC is able
to maintain and retain core staff from its own growing revenue stream will be a tangible
indicator of the institutional development impact of this project.

54.     Financial strengthening. Reporting of financial data and definitions of indicators
were found to be inconsistent between the restructuring paper and what is reported in
implementation status and results reports. Base data reported in the ISRs could not be
verified. For the purpose of assessing AUWSSC’s performance, the ICR uses the data
presented in the audited financial statements.

55.    In a relatively short period, effectively from 2010 to project close in 2014,
AUWSSC made impressive improvements to its existing operations by launching an
extensive leakage reduction program, fixing leaks in old pipes, and improving routine
O&M with the purchase of equipment and spare parts. Wastage was reduced by reducing
the number of public taps, and replacing them with metered household and institutional
connections. Water coverage by household connections increased from 17% of the urban
population in 2010 to 20% in 2014, and water coverage by public water points decreased
from 5% to 3% over that period.



                                           12
56.     There was a firm commitment from AUWSSC to legalize existing connections,
and introduce metering. In total 47,470 connections were added to its system. Metering
levels increased from 36% to 72% of connections over the project period. A higher level
of metering has led to improved revenue collection by improving accounting of water
sold, minimizing unpaid water, and reducing wastage.

57.     The effectiveness of the collections process is measured by the accounts
receivable which is the average number of months of revenue required to recover
outstanding customer bills. The accounts receivable performance of AUWSSC has
improved but there remain opportunities for AUWSSC to further improve its billing and
collections function.

58.      The working ratio as reported by AUWSSC5 shows an improvement from 1.17 to
0.68 over the project period. This shows that costs are covered by revenues by a factor of
almost 1.5. Using the audited financial statements to assess AUWSSC’s ability to cover
its basic operating costs from billed revenues6, shows an improvement in the working
ratio from 1.6 in 2010 to 0.99 in 2013. In both cases the operating revenues reported were
the billed water sales and not the cash received from water sales. There are two concerns
related to these figures. The first is that the Bank team should have worked to reconcile
these differences in the reported ratios and secondly more attention should have been
given to monitoring the cash situation of the entity. Notwithstanding these comments the
financial situation of AUWSSC is improving and it may be able to recover the bulk of its
basic operating expenses from revenues, if the billing and collections are improved to
ensure sufficient operational cash flows.

59.      Tariff revision. The new water tariff, which was approved by Presidential Decree
on 11 June, 2012 was one of AUWSSC’s most significant achievements. Tariffs were
low and were insufficient to cover operating expenses. Establishing a higher tariff was
critical for AUWSSC’s financial sustainability. The tariff increase was significant, with
tariffs for metered connections in planned residential areas rising on average 226%,
leading to numerous complaints to Parliament. However, the strong political leadership
provided by the AUWSSC Board, the Office of the President, the Ministry of Finance
and the Cabinet Economic Committee was instrumental in ensuring that the tariff
adjustment was approved and justified to constituents. The tariff levels before and after
the tariff revision are shown in Annex 2.


5
    Calculated as Total Annual Expenses excluding Depreciation / Total Annual Revenue.

6
  For the purposes of the ICR, the working ratio computation was based on the figures reported in the
audited financial statements, and was computed as the Total Operating Revenues/Total Operating Expenses.
Total annual operating revenues are billed water sales, and not collections from water sales. Note that the
audit reports observed that there were insufficient accurate, appropriate and relevant supporting documents,
including a complete list of customers, their meter readings, billing records, etc. to verify the revenue
reported.


                                                    13
60.      Organizational structure and staffing. The project financed approximately 45%
of operational expenditures, which included the salaries of non-managerial staff. Apart
from the strong management team, the remaining organizational structure remains weak.
The AUWSSC Board approved a new organization structure in February 2013, but the
ability to hire staff against the organizational needs of the new AUWSSC is hampered by
the need to ensure retention of former CAWSS staff that may not be sufficiently skilled.
The Board and AUWSSC’s management team were required to formalize relations
between the HQ and the decentralized SBUs through Memoranda of Understanding
(MoU). A generic MoU was drafted by the technical assistance consultants, but internal
debate regarding the legal arrangements between HQ and SBUs has held up the signing
of the MoUs. There is no formal budgeting or reporting relationship between SBUs and
HQ and the current decision making and budgeting structure is centralized. Internal
communication is weak, and there is little coordination between departments.

Development of AUWSSC’s capacity for investment planning and implementation

61.     Expansion of urban operations. The project has strengthened AUWSSC’s
Technical Division, which is responsible for planning, design and implementation of
urban water projects across the country. CAWSS had operations in 14 towns, which were
gradually handed over to AUWSSC. By project close, AUWSSC expanded to operations
in 43 towns (direct operations in 38 towns and joint operations with local municipalities
in 5 towns). AUWSSC has demonstrated capacity in investment planning and
implementation with the in-house preparation of investment plans for urban water supply,
and detailed engineering designs, and construction supervision for government-financed
water supply projects in Andhkhoi, Farah and Aybak.

62.      Water supply services by small private operators. Private sector investment in
water supply service delivery is an important option for accelerating service provision in
unplanned areas. Private operators have established commercial operations by
rehabilitating abandoned wells or drilling new wells, and delivering water directly to
households through metered connections. Private water supply operators, in addition to
connection fees, are charging tariffs from 25 Afs/m3 to 85 Afs/m3, compared to the
AUWSSC rate of 12 Afs/m3 in unplanned areas, and 25 Afs/ m3 in planned residential
areas. There is a need to formalize and regulate private operators to set their operating
criteria, regulate tariffs, ensure construction quality; and monitor and enforce
performance requirements. As follow-up one scheme for expanding water supply services
by small private operators was piloted under this project for District 2 Qol e Abchakan.
The scheme extended the existing network, and increased the quantity of water supplied,
benefiting 1,200 households. The private operator is expected to extend services to an
additional 800 households. ISRs reported the total number of households receiving water
from small scale private providers across the City at 31,000. This latter number highlights
the significant importance of such providers in the City, but the monitoring should have
been focused solely on those households benefiting from the project in District 2, i.e.
1200 households.


                                            14
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderate

63.     Reliable data were not available during appraisal to carry out an economic
analysis. A financial analysis for the extension of the Kabul water supply system was
based on financial data collected over a limited time and forecasted on the basis of
benefits expected from the new infrastructure. After cancellation of the Kabul water
supply component project funds were directed towards technical assistance activities.

64.     The project’s contribution to supporting expenditures of local staff and operations
brought measurable gains. At the start of the restructured project in 2010, AUWSSC had
an operating deficit of US$1,7m7. By the end of the project, revenues had increased with
increased metering and a significant tariff increase, backlogs in electricity bills had been
eliminated, and O&M was improved, as described in Section 3. The deficit was reduced
to a surplus of US$0.03m in 2013. A total of US$14,7m of project funds was spent on
technical assistance and financial support to AUWSSC, excluding the consulting contract
for the preparation of new investments. This equates to a 12% benefit which would have
not been possible at all without the direct operational budget support and technical
assistance provided by the Bank. The costs involved in achieving the project objectives
are therefore considered moderately reasonable with the benefits.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.      Before restructuring, the project had made limited progress towards achievement
of the original PDO, and 6% of the final grant proceeds had disbursed at the very end of
the original grant period. The project is therefore rated Unsatisfactory before
restructuring. In the context of the conflict state and the difficulties that it presents, the
restructured project made remarkable progress in institutionalizing major reforms in the
urban water supply and sanitation sector. It has established a firm platform upon which
further institutional support can strengthen and deepen reforms, and build a water utility
that is able to meet the enormous challenges of urban water supply and sanitation service
delivery in Afghanistan. The project is rated Moderately Satisfactory after restructuring.
As per the guidelines for outcome rating of projects with formally revised project
objectives, the weighted rating is shown in Table 1 below.




7
  Computed as Total Operating Revenues less Total Operating Expenses, based on the figures reported in
the audited financial statements. The operating revenues reported were the billed water sales, and not the
cash received from water sales


                                                   15
Table 1 Calculation of outcome rating of projects with formally revised project objectives
                                                   Against Original Against Revised
                                                                                             Overall
                                                         PDOs               PDO
1. Rating                                                                Moderately
                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                                        Satisfactory
2. Rating value                                            2                  4
3. Weight (% disbursed before/after PDO change)          5.6%              94.4%              100%
4. Weighted value (Row 2 x Row 3)                         0.1                3.8                3.9
5. Final rating (rounded)                                                                  Moderately
                                                                                           Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

66.    A pilot community water project improved the quality and quantity of water for
1,200 families in an unplanned area outside the master plan limits of Kabul Municipality.
The private service provider is now extending the network to an additional 800 families.
Access to piped water supply is expected to bring greater benefits to women and children,
who play a major role in collecting and storing water for domestic use.

    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

67.      The restructured project focused on the institutional strengthening of AUWSSC
and achieved the results described in Section 3. The project had a positive impact on the
institutional structure of the entire urban water supply and sanitation sector in
Afghanistan. The legal and institutional framework that has established AUWSSC, and
the establishment of a management structure with a corporate mindset has created an
enabling environment for improved service provision. The Government of Afghanistan
did not provide any grant assistance to AUWSSC operations. The Bank’s support was
critical for creating confidence in the Government’s reforms. The project interventions
strengthened the local utility from within, with the financing of operating expenses, and
the salaries of local Afghans who constituted the management team. The Bank is the only
source of such direct budget support. Most donor funds tend to be ring-fenced and
managed directly by the donor agency, predominantly supporting new infrastructure, and
technical assistance from international consultants. The Bank’s support was therefore key
in supporting the reform efforts.

    (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There are no additional unintended outcomes and impacts.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

68.  The project has supported the establishment of AUWSSC as a new water utility.
However, for achievements of the project to be sustainable, strong support from the

                                                 16
Ministry of Finance is required to support the utility in appointing key staff with the
appropriate skills, providing appropriate compensation packages, and allowing
management autonomy in decision making. The deepening fiscal crisis in Afghanistan
due to the imminent withdrawal of foreign troops places gains from the project at
considerable risk. Revenue collection could fall if an economic downturn leads to a
significant reduction in household incomes. The absence of continued IDA support to the
sector through investment project financing would be a significant setback to the sector
reforms.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

69.      During preparation there was strong impetus for reform across all sectors as the
new government came into place. The preparation team strongly supported the urban
water and sanitation sector, and supported a policy structure that is well accepted and
practiced internationally. However, the project’s design was unrealistically ambitious in
the context of the post-conflict state, where the political structure had changed, a new
legal framework was being developed, and decades of conflict had left fragmented
institutions with limited capacity and few formal systems and processes. Institutional
risks, country context risks, as well as risks posed by components to be financed by other
donors were not adequately anticipated and created significant challenges during
implementation. Project preparation did not leverage the development knowledge of the
Bank, and advice provided in internal review meetings by Bank experts was not given
adequate consideration at the design stage. Disbursement conditions tied the project
unnecessarily, resulting in the Client being unable to access grant proceeds until the end
of the original grant period.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.    Before restructuring, the Bank’s quality of supervision was unsatisfactory. The
Bank conducted concurrent supervision of both the ARTF financed Afghanistan Short
Term Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project (P092162) and AUWSP. By June 2008,
it was clear that all components of the project were delayed, including achievement of
grant covenants. The project was rated Unsatisfactory for both implementation progress
and achievement of development objective. There is evidence of proactive action
proposed by the supervision team: (i) restructuring was proposed in 2007, which was
delayed by a management review of the urban water program; (ii) revision of the
implementation arrangements and the establishment of a project management unit was
proposed in 2008; and (iii) even though there was no clear documentation of a Mid Term
Review (MTR), a mission did take place November 2-10, 2008 which identified specific

                                           17
interventions to strengthen implementation, which were reflected in the subsequent
project restructuring. However, in spite of reported delays, no disbursement against the
project, and consistent Unsatisfactory and Moderately Unsatisfactory supervision ratings,
the Bank did not take any proactive action until restructuring at the end of the original
grant period in June 2010.

71.     After restructuring, Bank supervision was satisfactory. Consistent Moderately
Satisfactory ratings for implementation progress and Moderately Satisfactory and
Satisfactory ratings for achievement of development objectives indicated substantial
improvement in project performance 8. The Bank’s supervision oversight played a key
role in ensuring that reforms were implemented and political interference was mitigated.

72.      The Bank allocated sufficient budget and staff resources for the Project. In
contrast to the post-conflict conditions during preparation, security deteriorated markedly
during supervision, with increases in attacks on civilians, government officials and UN
facilities. This affected staffing within the Bank, with turnover of task team leaders. In
spite of task team leadership changing four times during implementation, the project was
consistently supervised twice a year. Significant day-to-day implementation support was
provided throughout, including from New Delhi when the security situation deteriorated
markedly. From 2012, team continuity was ensured by the Bank by having the team
leader based in Kabul. The delegation of field based task team leadership in the latter
stages of the project saw an immense drive from the supervision team to push the
disbursements, which resulted in 97.5% of the grant being disbursed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

73.     The project was poorly designed and not implementable in the country context.
Little was done to proactively restructure the project, in spite of consistently poor
performance ratings from 2007 to 2010. The Bank’s performance was rated
Unsatisfactory for quality at entry and supervision before restructuring. However, after
restructuring, the project implementation began in earnest, and the Bank played an active
role in supporting reforms and driving project implementation, resulting in achievement
of the development objective. The Bank’s performance after restructuring is rated as
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is therefore rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance



8
  On June 14, 2014 the project was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory to emphasize the need for client action
on disbursement delays and audit completions. This was upgraded back to Moderately Satisfactory in the
final supervision mission at the end of June 2014.




                                                   18
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74.      The Government instituted significant reforms in the urban water and sanitation
sector that place it in line with international practice. If sustained, these reforms will
shape the effectiveness of the sector to fulfill the substantial urban service delivery
challenges the country faces. The government played a critical role in supporting
AUWSSC in its tariff reform. The residential volumetric tariff increase ranged from
150% - 315%. This was a significant increase that inevitably created public pressure.
However the government remained firm in justifying the tariff increase to constituents. In
addition, the government supported the disconnection of illegal connections and the
institution of penalties for illegal connections, which sets the standard for customer
behavior going forward.

75.     There was resistance to the formation of AUWSSC from within MUDA, and the
Board of AUWSSC continues to be subject to governance pressures that hamper its
performance. The Ministry of Finance was in a position to offer greater leadership in the
reform process, first as the Chair of the Working Group to complete an inventory of
assets and CAWSS staff, subsequently as Chair of the Liquidation Committee that took
over the task of asset inventory and staffing, and thereafter as Chair of the Board of
Directors of AUWSSC. The Ministry of Finance could have provided greater impetus
and encouragement for the transformation of AUWSSC, and could have played a greater
role in safeguarding AUWSSC from political interference in staffing.

76.     Disbursements by the Special Disbursements Unit (SDU) of Ministry of Finance
remained a challenge throughout the implementation period. SDU instituted disbursement
requirements that were not required by the Financing Agreement, placing the completion
of external audits on the critical path of disbursements. This persisted up to the project
close, when the grace period was extended by two months to ensure full utilization of
grant proceeds.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.     In the context of Afghanistan, where decades of conflict left failing infrastructure
on a massive scale, and ongoing security threats continue to hamper progress, AUWSSC
has performed remarkably well. The management team has shown a firm commitment to
extending services and has demonstrated tangible improvements in performance in a
relatively short period. Metering levels increased from 36% to 72% of connections over
the project period. In Kabul, for example, a program to legalize connections yielded 700
additional connections within a period of 6 months, with customers being charged a
penalty fee over and above the normal connection fee, and were disconnected if they did
not comply. A significant increase in tariffs for all customers, including a residential
volumetric tariff increase that ranged from 150% - 315% was convincingly justified by

                                            19
the management. These demonstrated political and management commitment, and in a
short time, AUWSSC is showing tangible progress towards cost recovery.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.      Even though the government performance had significant shortcomings that
hampered project implementation, the implementing agency’s performance drove the
achievement of the project development objective. The approval of the tariff increase was
an important achievement for both the government and AUWSSC that plays a significant
role in improving the financial sustainability of the sector in the future. The context of the
conflict state presents difficult operating conditions, under which the Borrower was able
to undertake significant reforms. The overall Borrower performance is therefore rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

   6. Lessons Learned

The Bank’s role in supporting public reform:

79.      The Bank is well placed to support a reform agenda if it is willing to sustain
support over the long term. Implementation though government agencies, even if weak,
facilitates institutional development by putting clients in the driver’s seat and promotes
learning by doing.

80.     Key policy actions should be addressed upstream during project preparation.
Risks should be comprehensively analyzed and incorporated into the project design.
Disbursement conditions should be designed very carefully, or avoided altogether, to
avoid tying up project funds unnecessarily.

81.    Operational budget support was effective in supporting the utility reform agenda.
By financing the shortfall between revenue and cost, AUWSSC could initiate activities to
reduce costs and advocate for increased tariffs. Direct budget support provided resources
for O&M and rehabilitation, which improved performance levels of the existing system.

Operations in fragile and conflict states

82.     Fragile and conflict states present a unique context that must be well understood
and factored into project design. Peer reviewers from other fragile and conflict states can
help to share best practices. Management should ensure rigorous quality at entry and
timely restructuring.

83.     Sector and operational knowledge are equally important in fragile and conflict
states to ensure project designs that are implementable. CMU and fiduciary staff in
country offices can play an important role in integrating operational knowledge across the
country portfolio.

                                             20
84.     In a post-conflict country, the presence of field-based Bank staff to provide
intensive and continuous implementation support is critical, particularly for procurement,
financial management and project management. The Bank could consider seconding staff
to government offices to provide short term on-the-job support. The presence of field
based task team leaders with strong operational experience is important for problem
solving in fragile environments. The Bank could also consider the use of reimbursable
advisory services to complement supervision. This may be a good alternative to the use
of consultants, especially to support a reform agenda, where the use of Bank specialists
can help overcome vested interests and poor consultant quality.

85.      Project designs in fragile and conflict affected countries should consider
simplification to reduce the use of international consulting firms as far as possible, in
favor of individual consultants. The experience with the procurement and contract
management of international consulting firms in fragile and conflict affected countries
indicate: (i) international consulting firm contracts are large, and their procurement takes
time, especially for the quality and cost based selection process; (ii) often by the time
firms mobilize, key staff have changed, and time is lost in finding adequate replacements
(iii) the communication of the report findings is often not effectively done, especially in
an environment where English is poor and reading large consultant reports is difficult;
(iv) because of the rotating nature of key staff as per their technical proposal, field
presence is often not long enough to foster relationships that contribute to knowledge
transfer.

Donor coordination

86.    Donor financing in the form of co-financing of Bank operations, or independent
financing of standalone projects should take precedence over parallel financing of
interdependent project components. The objectives of an IDA supported project should
be achievable independently of donor activities, where the government often has little or
no control on the content, sequencing, or quality of activities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                                   Percentag
                                                          Restructu   Actual/Lat      e of
                                            Appraisal
                                                             red          est      Restructu
                                            Estimate
              Components                                  Estimate     Estimate       red
                                             (USD
                                                            (USD        (USD       Estimate
                                            millions)
                                                          millions)    millions)     (USD
                                                                                    million)

Component 1: Institutional Development
                                                    8.2        10.2          6.9      68
of AUWSSC
Component 2: Financial Support to
                                                    5.6         6.0         11.4     190
AUWSSC
   i) Operations and maintenance costs,
   including salaries of non - managerial                       4.4          9.6     218
   staff
   ii) Management staff salaries and
                                                                1.6          1.8     113
   bonuses
Component 3: Extension of the Kabul
                                                  18.3            0
Water Supply System
                     Total Baseline Cost          32.1         16.2
Contingencies                                      7.9          1.8
                      Total Project Costs         40.0         18.0         18.3     102

(b) Financing

                                                     Restructured Actual/Latest
                                        Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                      Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)    millions)
Borrower                                                 0.00         0.00        .00
IDA Grant                                               18.00         18.3        102




                                             22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Institutional development of AUWSSC

This component aimed to establish AUWSSC operational, implementation, procurement
and financial management capability by providing technical assistance, training, and
support for salaries of a new management team.

Corporatization of AUWSSC. As per the Presidential Decree signed on January 25, 2006,
CAWSS was to be dissolved and replaced by AUWSSC, a public corporation with its
own Board of Directors, appointed by the Ministry of Finance and MUDA. Consultants
to prepare the documentation needed for the corporatization of AUWSSC were financed
by the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF). The consultant was
mobilized in October 2006 and outputs included a review of existing laws and regulations
affecting urban water supply and sanitation service delivery, drafting of the Articles of
Incorporation; and an inventory of assets, which could not be completed due to the lack
of asset registers in provincial towns.

Technical Support. A technical support consultancy was a major consultancy for
providing technical assistance for the operationalization of AUWSSC, by providing
management and operational assistance to AUWSSC and SBUs to improve efficiency,
commercialization and expansion. This was a key consultancy to build capacity for day-
to-day operations from experienced staff from a large established utility. The prolonged
procurement process resulted in the Consultant mobilizing towards the end of 2011 and
no longer providing the specialists presented in the proposal. The following outputs were
produced as part of this consultancy:

   1) Investment Plan covering for a ten year period for AUWSSC HQ, 6 Strategic
      Business Units (SBUs), 11 Sub-SBUs and 11 other cities which have been subject
      of feasibility studies in the water and wastewater sector.

   2) Draft bye-laws and amendments required for the Articles of Incorporation of
      AUWSSC

   3) MoU between AUWSSC-HQ and SBUs establish the formal relationship between
      them. The MoU would set out (i) the investment program AUWSSC-HQ was
      committed to implement and the additional production and distribution capacities
      to be created; (ii) the minimum service standards the SBU will have to be achieve,
      (iii) the minimum financial standards that the SBU will have to achieve; (iv) the
      financial assistance AUWSSC was committed to provide to complement revenue
      from user charges; and (v) the format and the frequency of the reporting by SBU
      on their technical, commercial and financial operations to AUWSSC-HQ.

   4) AUWSSC organization structure

   5) Report on establishing a communication and public awareness strategy

                                           23
   6) Quarterly Tariff and Cost Recovery Analysis Reports

   7) Quarterly Financial Projection Reports

   8) Quarterly Operational Reports

   9) Proforma Accounts for AUWSSC and the SBUs for FY 1388 (2009/10),1389
       (2010/11), 1390 (2011/12) , and 1391 (2012/13)

Training

   1) Management Training Plan

   2) Training of AUWSSC Board of Directors on their fiduciary role and
      responsibilities

Requirements for the operationalization of the financial management, accounting, billing
and collection, and asset management systems, were not completed.

External audit: An external Auditor was appointed under this component to audit the
financial statements of AUWSSC for FY 1388 (2009/10), 1389 (2010/11), 1390 (2011/12),
and 1391 (2012/13).

Pilot scheme for expanding water supply services by small private operators: A study
of private sector water service providers was conducted under this project with support
from the Government of Australia’s aid agency AusAid. The study showed that the
public was willing to pay commercial rates for the convenience of a safe and reliable
piped water supply. Private companies had established commercial operations by
rehabilitating abandoned wells or drilling new wells and installing pumping stations and
reservoirs, as well as networks of pipes to deliver water directly to households through
metered connections, and were charging connection fees, and tariffs from 25 Afs/m3 to
85 Afs/m3. The study concluded that private sector investment in water supply
infrastructure and private participation in the operation of water supply delivery was an
important option for accelerating the provision of safe drinking water for the residents of
Kabul. As follow-up one scheme for expanding water supply services by small private
operators was piloted under this project for the District 2 Qol e Abchakan pilot scheme (i)
wells and pumps including mechanical and electrical equipment (ii) Supply and
installation of transmission and distribution networks (iii) civil works including
guardroom, pumps, generators, boundary walls and office building. The scheme
extended the existing network, and increased the quantity of water supplied, benefiting
1,200 households. The private operator is expected to extend services to an additional
800 households.

Preparation of a new water supply project for Kabul: This was a major consultancy to
develop a feasible program of priority actions for rehabilitating the existing water supply
system and for providing water supply and wastewater services in unserved area in

                                            24
Eastern part of Kabul City. It also included an assessment of the technical assistance
needs for AUWSSC for the next five year period. The Consultant mobilized in May 2013
and produced all the outputs within a 13 month period. The outputs were found to have
partially responded to the terms of reference and lacked the level of rigor that was
necessary in preparing a Bank financed project. The following outputs were produced:

     1) Existing water and wastewater situation in project area

     2) Rehabilitation needs of the existing water production, transmission and storage

     3) Conceptual design report on water and wastewater and phased investment plan

     4) Feasibility study report for priority investment and related procurement plan

     5) Detailed engineering designs of rehabilitation of the existing systems and draft
        bidding documents

     6) Design reports for priority investment for water supply and wastewater and draft
        bidding documents

  7) Final bidding documents for priority investment for water supply and wastewater
Component 2: Financial support to AUWSSC operations

Under this component AUWSSC was entitled to claim the reimbursement of a portion of
reasonable’ operating expenses, including energy, chemicals, parts, small repair
contracts for regular maintenance, and salaries and bonuses of managerial staff.

AUWSSC Management Team, Advisors and Professional Staff: The project financed
the following positions in AUWSSC, which included the senior management team, key
technical advisors, and professional staff competitively recruited under fixed term
contracts that included a market based compensation packages.

                  Positions                  Status           Contract Signed       Contract end

              Director General         Position was filled        06-May-09             30-Jun-14
1.
             Operations Manager        Position was filled        01-March-10           30-Jun-14
2.
               Internal Auditor        Position was filled         14-Dec-13            30-Jun-14
3.
              SBU Head Herat           Position was filled         21-Feb-12            30-Jun-14
4.
             SBU Head Kundoz           Position was filled         14-Sep-10            30-Jun-14
5.
             SBU Head Kandahar                                                          30-Jun-14
6.                                     Position was filled         14-Sep-10
              Finance Manager                                                           30-Jun-14
7.                                     Position was filled        08-June-13



                                             25
           Technical Manager                                            30-April-14
8.                                  Position was filled    25-Oct-10
            SBU Head Kabul                                               30-Jun-14
9.                                  Position was filled    14-Sep-10
           SBU Head Mazar                                                30-Jun-14
10.                                 Position was filled    14-Sep-10
          SBU Head Jalalabad        Position was filled    13-Feb-13     30-Jun-14
11.
             Sr. HR Officer         Position was filled    1-Jan-13      30-Jun-14
12.
         Sr. Accountants Officer    Position was filled   26-Mar-13      30-Jun-14
13.
        Sr. Planning and Budget
                                    Position was filled    1-Jan-13      30-Jun-14
14.              Officer

         Sr. Commercial Officer     Position was filled    16-Feb-13     12-Jun-13
15.
           Contracts Engineer       Position was filled    25-Sep-13     30-Jun-14
16.
            Sr. Strategic
                                    Position was filled   24-Mar-13     31-March-14
17.      Communication officer

          Finance officer for
                                    Position was filled    25-Feb-14     1-Jun-13
18.     Receivable and Payables

        Finance officer for fixed
                                    Position was filled    15-Oct-11     30-Jun-14
19.       asset and inventory

         Surveyor for Technical
                                    Position was filled    8-Oct-13      30-Jun-14
20.           Department

           Corporate Services
                                    Position was filled    1-Jan-13      12-Jun-13
21.            Manager

        Executive assistant to GD   Position was filled    1-Jan-13      28-Feb-14
22.
                IT officer          Position was filled    25-Sep-13     30-Jun-14
23.
         Sr. customer officer for
                                    Position was filled   15-Mar-14      30-Jun-14
24.               KSBU

          Design Engineer for       Position was filled   15-Mar-14      30-Jun-14
25. D
          Sr. Engineer project
                                    Position was filled   16-March-14   15-May-14
26.         implementation

              HR assistant          Position was filled    08-Jan-14     30-Jun-14
27.
         Sr. Finance officer for
                                    Position was filled   15-April-14    30-Jun-14
28.              KSBU




                                          26
          Sr. Operation officer for
                                      Position was filled         21-Jan-14         30-Jun-14
29.                KSBU

            Sr. Engineer project
                                      Position was filled         01-Jan-14        30-April-14
30.             development

          International Technical
31. I                                 Position was filled          5-Jan-14         30-Jun-14
                  Advisor
    n
              Senior Advisor          Position was filled         1-April-14        30-Jun-14
32. S
              Internal Auditor        Position was filled         14-Jan-13        15-June-13
33.
             Finance Manager          Position was filled         05-Dec-10       30-August-11
34.
              Internal Auditor        Position was filled         01-Jan-12        20-March-12
35.
             Finance Manager          Position was filled         01-Sept-11        31-Dec-12
36.
               Internal Audit         Position was filled        01-April-10        30-Aug-11
37.
         Senior Accountant officer    Position was filled         15-Oct-11        30-June-13
38.
         Senior Accountant officer    Position was filled         15-Oct-11         31-Dec-12
39.
            SBU Head Jalalabad        Position was filled         14-Sept-10        31-Dec-12
40.
                IT Assistant          Position was filled         01-July-14           NA
41.
          Performance Reporting
                                                            Position not filled
42.            Coordinator

             Customer Service
                                                            Position not filled
43.            Coordinator

           Water Supply network
                                                            Position not filled
44.            Coordinator

          Water and Waste Water
                                                            Position not filled
45.       Treatment Coordinator




In addition to the salaries of managerial and non-managerial staff, the project financed
operations and maintenance costs, including electricity and parts. Operational equipment,
including survey equipment, lab chemicals and equipment, chlorine, and water pumps
were purchased. The project financed the procurement of office equipment, including
computers, scanners, printers, furniture, the bidding documents for office buildings for
AUWSSC Headquarters.



                                            27
Tariff adjustment. An improvement of AUWSSC’s Working Ratio was unlikely to be
achieved by improving commercial operations (metering, billing and collection) and
reducing operating costs, such as pumping costs, and by reducing physical leaks. Thus, it
was necessary to increase the average revenue per cubic meter (m3) of water billed and
collected. An estimate of a sustainable water tariff, based on available data prepared by
the technical assistance consultant in the Quarterly Tariff and Cost Recovery Analysis
Reports, was used to justify an adjustment in the tariff level. The following tariff
adjustment was approved:



            AUWSSC tariff before and after the tariff revision approved in June 2012
             Tariff category                Before revision             After revision
                                  Metered Connections (Afs/m3)
     Commercial                                     20                         35
     Residential Planned
             ½ inch connection                      6                          25
             ¾ inch connection                      8                          25
             1 inch connection                      10                         25
     Residential Unplanned                          4                          12
                               Unmetered Connections (Afs/month)
     Commercial
             ½ inch connection                     640                       2100
             ¾ inch connection                     640                       3150
             1 inch connection                     640                       4200
     Residential Planned
             ½ inch connection                      80                        240
             ¾ inch connection                     160                        480
             1 inch connection                     320                        960
     Residential Unplanned                          50                        150
                                 Connection Fees (Afs/connection)
     Residential
             ½ inch connection                    1000                       2000
             ¾ inch connection                    2000                       4000
             1 inch connection                    4000                       8000
     Commercial
             ½ inch connection                    2000                       4000
             ¾ inch connection                    4000                       8000
             1 inch connection                    8000                      16000
     Labor for Connection                          300                        450
     Meter Maintenance (Afs/year)                  300                        450




                                               28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable




                                    29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                           Responsibility/
              Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Christophe Bosch           Lead Water & Sanitation Spec.       GWADR Task team leader
Charles Delfieux           Water & Sanitation Specialist       GWADR Technical specialist
                                                                     Water       resources
Nagaraja Rao Harshadeep    Sr. Environmental Spec.             GENDR
                                                                     specialist
Alain Locussol             Consultant                          SASDU Technical specialist
Sheila Braka Musiime       Chief Counsel                       LEGES Legal
Asta Olesen                Senior Social Development Spec      SASDS Safeguards
Supervision/ICR
Deepal Fernando            Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2 Procurement
                                                                      Task Team
Karine Fourmond            Water & Sanitation Specialist       SASDU Leader ARTF and
                                                                      PPIAF Grants
                                                               CTRFC- Financial
David C. Freese            Senior Finance Officer
                                                                 His  Management
Mariam Haidary             Program Assistant                   SASHD Program assistance
Philippe Huc               Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.         MNSWA Task team leader
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi        Operations Officer                  SASDU Operations support
                                                                      Social Development
Asila Wardak Jamal         Consultant                           SASDI
                                                                      Specialist
Shyamal Sarkar             Sr Sanitary Engineer                SASDU Task team leader
Alain R. Locussol          Consultant                          SASDU Technical specialist
Pratibha Mistry            Water & Sanitation Specialist       GWADR ICR author
Sheila Braka Musiime       Chief Counsel                       LEGES Legal
                                                                      Financial
Kenneth O. Okpara          Sr Financial Management Specia      SARFM
                                                                      Management
Asta Olesen                Senior Social Development Spec      SASDS Safeguards
                                                                      Small scale operators
Maria Perisic              Senior Operations Officer           SASDA
                                                                      study
Mohammad Arif Rasuli       Senior Environmental Specialist      SASDI Safeguards
Richard L. Symonds         Consultant                           FFIDR Sr Legal Counsel
Deepali Tewari             Lead Urban Specialist               GSURR Task team leader
Minerva Espinosa-Apurada   Program Assistant                   GWADR Program assistance



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                             3.25                    20.01
  FY05                                            14.15                    61.28
  FY06                                            37.77                   175.78

                                             30
  FY07                           0.00      2.08
  FY08                           0.00      0.00
                  Total:        55.17    259.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                        0.00         0.00
  FY05                        0.00         0.00
  FY06                        0.00         4.66
  FY07                       24.89       117.96
  FY08                       25.97       116.74
  FY09                       70.64       255.88
  FY10                       41.91       151.01
  FY11                       23.17        78.78
  FY12                       32.63       136.48
  FY13                       28.50       109.06
  FY14                       47.55       170.89
  FY15                       24.10        56.41
                  Total:    319.42      1197.87




                           31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Project Profile

                          Details of Financing Agreement
Name of Project                         Afghanistan Urban Water Supply Project
Grant No.                                                 H-2250
Project ID                                               P087860
Grant Amount                           SDR 27.9 Million = USD 43.775 Million
                                   Between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and
Parties to Agreement                 International Development Association (IDA)
Project Implementation entity                  MUDA, CAWS, AUWSSC
Key Stakeholders                    MoF, World Bank, MUDA, CAWS, AUWSSC
Grant Agreement Date                                   July 5th 2006
Project Closing date                                  June 30th 2010
                                      Project is extended up-to June 30th 2012 with
                                 cancelation of SDR 15.664 Million from the original
Amendment no.1
                                     Grant amount as a result SDR 12.236 Million
                                                remained balance of Grant
Amendment no.2                          Project is extended up-to 30th June 2014


Background of the Project

1.      Government of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (GOIRA) entered into a Grant
Agreement with the World Bank International Development Association (IDA) on July 5,
2006 for a grant of SDR 27.900 million (USD 43.775 million). The stated objective of the
grant was to increase access to and ensure reliability of water supply and sewerage
service in urban centers. The stipulated closing date of the project was June 30, 2010
which the IDA extended twice. IDA first extended it up to 30 June 2012 and then up to
30 June 2014. While approving the second extension IDA cancelled USD 24.577 million
(SDR 15.664 million) as well as they have replaced one of the project developmental
objective which was “Extension of the Kabul water supply system” with the new activity
of (i) preparation of a new water supply project for Kabul, and (ii) a pilot scheme for
expanding water supply services by small private operators as a result only USD 18.9
million grant’s fund remained available for a project.

Project Objectives:
    a) Institutional development of AUWSSC;
    b) Financial Support to AUWSSC;
    c) Extension of the Kabul water supply system where it was replaced by a new
activity “(i) preparation of a new water supply project for Kabul, and (ii) a pilot scheme
for expanding water supply services by small private operators” during second
amendment

                                           34
Part-1 of the project: Institutionalization of AUWSSC:

AUWSSC was newly established corporation and it was totally new formation of the
governmental entity in form of corporation which was always a big challenge to manage
and operate independently, BCE consultant was hired under the project to form a
structure and policies for the newly established corporation, but the existent management
situation and its human capital adoptability to a new system was not diagnosed
systematically and without considering these factors BCE’s assignment was designed in
terms of its ToRs also selected methodology for the improvement in its management
system was not effective that’s why its result was not as desired at overall but despite that
AUWSSC had done better efforts in its institutionalization process.

If we refer to the description of the Schedule-1 of financing agreement project objectives
descriptions are highlighted below:

(a)     Reorganization of CAWSS governmental enterprise into a public Corporation
which was decided based on the presidential decree and the process of hiring key
personnel, managerial staff, Director General was supported by the this project to
organize this new corporation for the better management and development of urban
water supply and sewerage services as well as quality management of overall water
supply activities throughout the country, fortunately this process is successfully
completed and a new AUWSSC is organized well established and managing its water
supply services properly throughout the country where we can judge its performance
results based on the performance indicators and its results which is highlighted in the
aide-memoire prepared during mission.

(b)    Development and enhancement of capacity in the newly formed AUWSSC
through the provision of technical assistance and training, (i) preparation of operations,
procurement, accounting and financial management procedures are in place as per the
government of Afghanistan accepted regulations, (ii) Internal audit is in place, (iii) HR
department is developed, (iv) the carrying out of feasibility studies are responsibility of
AUWSSC Technical department which is in place, (v) AUWSSC’s each year financial
statements are audited by the External auditors, (vi) proper management of planning,
financing, and water supply activities are in proper and continue operation.

Component-2: Financial Support to the CAWSS Operations (USD 9.6 M)

At the time of project preparation, AUWSSC was facing significant financial problems
where before the establishment of new corporation, CAWSS was operating as
government enterprise having low revenue compare to its expenses that’s why
government of Afghanistan was supporting it by giving subsidies financial support each
year to recover its deficit financial position. Operational costs were partly and irregularly
paid, no financial resources were available to recruit more staff as required to operate the
rehabilitated and extended CAWSS systems throughout the country.



                                             35
Government of Afghanistan has decided to replace CAWSS by new corporation as
Afghanistan Urban Water Supply & Sewerage Corporation (AUWSSC) where the new
AUWSSC will have to do an independent operation and also take-off the financial burden
from government which was paid to it as subsidies each year. By the date…….. New
AUWSSC is established where the newly established corporation was required to manage
its operation without the government financial support.

At this crucial and challenging time period under the world bank project AUWSSC got
the provision of 40% of financial support against its operational expenses for four years
SY-1388, 1389, 1390, 1391 and for the six months of 1392 which added a great value to
AUWSSC and it helped the corporation to take out the corporation from deficit to a
surplus financial position, during the project time AUWSSC has cleared its all liabilities
and dues which was left from that CAWSS financial performance and now in future
AUWSSC can bear it’s all type of operational expenses by generating its own revenue
through the supply of enough clean drinking water services to its customers.

Objective no.3: Extension of the Kabul SBU water supply network:

During 2nd amendment of the project some amount of grant fund was canceled and this
project developmental objective was also replaced by construction of TWO CDC projects
was added to the project and also designing of the new Investment project for Kabul SBU,
fortunately the CDC Qule-Abchakan project is successfully implemented and the 2nd
CDC Dogh-Abad project is not implemented because of time constraints and the lengthy
and rigid procurement procedures, 2nd the Kabul SBU new investment project designing
is successfully implemented where AUWSSC is now working the proposal finalization
which will be officially submitted to the bank for their further support.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
 Though ultimately the project objectives are achieved, but the project is not
   implemented as it was planned from timing perspective, the slow pace of
   disbursement and improper monitoring over the project progress asked 3-times more
   time period.

   AUWSSC management’s capabilities of project implementation were not taken into
    account, how much they need support from government and the Bank as project
    supervisory entity.

   Duties and responsibilities within the AUWSSC were not defined clearly for each
    managers and subordinates in-part of project implementation that’s why AUWSSC
    management faced problems and project required 3-times extension.

   AUWSSC existing problems in management system were not diagnosed by Board of
    Director and the Bank to help them accordingly.




                                           36
   BCE assignment was not termed based on AUWSSC actual need also methodology
    for the capacity building and system development was not based on the existing
    situation diagnostics that’s why its result is not as it was desired.

   Lesser control or watch of HQ over its SBUs & Sub SBUs.

   Lesser direction, guidance or no constant watch of borrower over the project
    implementation and its outcomes during project progresses (time period).

   Condition of external auditors for reimbursement and mixing of duties in external
    auditors ToRs where external auditors were required to complete the expenditure
    verification and financial statements audit together.

   Though the planned activities under the project didn’t took place on time but still it is
    been managed with initial allocated fund and did not required additional cost caused
    by extra time. AUWSSC has got the maximum possible benefit of the project
    allocated profit where it has played a vital role in the betterment of overall financial
    position.

   Financial management and procurement: During initial stages of the project
    implementation it was quite challenging for newly established corporation to manage
    the procurement and financial issues effectively but specially at the last two years the
    management has learnt lessons from the project past experiences and they were able
    to manage their procurement and financial activities effectively and efficiently which
    helped AUWSSC to disburse the remaining fund under the project in limited time
    period and get the targeted result.


Assessment of Outcomes

   The project had three developmental objectives, 1st Institutionalization of newly
    established corporation AUWSSC, where based on systematic evaluation we can
    observe certain improvements in its general management and its operational activities
    which helps AUWSSC to utilize the available resources efficiently and have
    expanded its services to many new cities also provide far better services than that of
    old enterprise and also generate two times better revenue compare to that SY-1388
    financial performance which all are because of new management team and their
    policies.

   2nd objective was to give financial support to AUWSSC which will bring the newly
    established corporation from deficit to a consistent and perpetual surplus financial
    position, fortunately AUWSSC financial position shows extra ordinary financial
    performance in last two years, the reason behind the current better financial position
    is that project had got about 40% financial burden of the corporation at the beginning



                                             37
    stages and later on gradually AUWSSC did managed to take out itself from deficit to
    a consistent better financial position.

   3rd objective of the project was to extend the Kabul SBU water supply network
    which was latter on replaced with the CDC project implementation and fortunately
    one of the CDC project which was Qole-Abchakan CDC is implemented successfully
    and one of that left because of time limitation and improper planning for the project
    procurement activities and the rest staff. Also the Kabul SBU new investment project
    is designed through one of the International consultants and the project is
    implemented successfully and AUWSSC will be requesting for its construction work
    and its actual implementation which will add greater value to AUWSSC and
    specifically this project will fulfill the needs of major portion of the Kabul city which
    was not benefited from AUWSSC services.

Project achievements

   Project has bring the governmental enterprise to a new independent Corporation and
    supported the corporation to standardize its managerial and operational activities and
    take-off the financial burden from government and perform independently, generate
    its own revenues and bear its own expenditures.

   Project has financially supported the newly established corporation which was in
    deficit financial position and now within 5-years corporation has cleared its all
    liabilities and from now onward it can perpetually perform independently with
    providing better services.

   CDC project is implemented for Kabul SBU which helped in the expansion of
    services and raised the capacity of production and services.

   AUWSSC team has experienced some new managerial practices which helped in the
    management capacity building.

Overall outcome Rating

   AUWSSC Management team do rate the overall project output as Highly Satisfactory
    result, though the project implementation got certain delays but ultimately the
    project’s overall values are absorbed and got the maximum benefits of it.

Risks to development outcome

   AUWSSC had done significant achievements in a too shorter period of time but it do
    needs further support in standardizing its management information systems also
    retaining of the competent managerial staff whose role was of value to AUWSSC.
    Following are risks which can affect AUWSSC perpetual performance in the sector:



                                             38
   AUWSSC may lose the management team who was managing the newly established
    corporation overall activities during last five years, and they were paid under World
    Bank project fund.

   AUWSSC’s information management system is still not standardized where it was
    expected that these activities will be managed under new World Bank project. And if
    it doesn’t happened the current information system will be negatively interpreting
    organization’s performance, and organization’s performance cannot be secured in
    long run, as we are currently facing a problems with the Board of Directors in case of
    our Financial Statements material misstatements which is caused by improper
    financial management system.

Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance

   The Bank team did not evaluated the client’s capabilities of managing the project
    implementation, as well as they did not diagnosed the existing problems within the
    management system of newly established corporation which has direct impact on the
    project implementation and opportunities utilization.

   At the ending period of the project they have diagnosed the existing problems within
    the management system that’s why they turned their attention and did constant watch
    over the project implementation and the client’s performance and ultimately the client
    could disbursed the whole project fund according to the financing agreement
    provisions and achieved its targeted objectives.

   At final stages of project the Bank staff listened to client’s suggestions and
    accordingly they showed flexibility which helped client to get the desired results
    efficiently.

   As proper management and effective implementation of project was challenging for
    newly established corporation. If the Bank could have constant watch on the project
    implementation process on quarterly basis it would have pushed the client to expedite
    the project implementation and would have helped the client to move forward and get
    the desired result efficiently.

   We rate the Bank’s performance satisfactory as over-all but Highly satisfactory ate
    the last 12-months of the project period which helped AUWSSC to manage the 50%
    of remaining project developmental objectives in a 25% remaining time period.
    Managing these bulky activities in such a limited time period was just because of
    close coordination and some flexibilities of Bank’s staff which added a great value to
    the project and basically to AUWSSC.

Borrower Performance


                                           39
   During the last year of the project life we have observed our implementation
    weaknesses and ultimately in too limited time period we were able to manage the
    project developmental objectives and get the maximum benefits of the project fund.

   With the help of the project and its values we were able to take-out the corporation
    from its financial deficiencies to a better financial position where now AUWSSC can
    independently take-on its burden, and can provide 3-times more water supply services
    than that of CAWSS enterprise where it was 50% financial burden on government.

   Better management team is in place which can manage its project and better water
    supply services to its customers.

   AUWSSC could have done better if they had a proper project implementation plan as
    well as annual action plan, also they should have a monitoring and evaluation
    practices which could have helped them diagnose their problems and find
    recommended solutions.

   At the beginning stages of the project during FY-2006, the project was managed
    under the old CAWSS and MOUD management team where up-to year 2010 the
    project did not had any significant achievements as a portion of the grant amount was
    canceled during first amendment on October 2010 and the important time period is
    wasted that’s why the project got too much delays and it does affected the project.

Lessons Learned

   The Bank’s policies and generally accepted regulations are better cleared to the client.

   Management have learnt that at the beginning of the project we should have a proper
    project implementation plan, and a monitoring team to make sure that project is going
    on as it is planned and the targeted objectives are achieved.

   The obstacles affecting the project implementation process is highlighted and can be
    minimized during coming projects.

   The project progress and its outcome have to be checked periodically and proper
    policies and procedures has to be in place to make sure the project’s objectives are
    secured and achieved.

   Client has to get the close coordination of the Bank and get advantages of their
    consulting activities.

   During the designing of the new project the borrower should give an opportunity to
    the client what they basically need, what are their priorities, and which work adds
    more value to them which can be included in the next projects.



                                            40
   The Bank’s management team should have a constant watch on the project progress
    and ask the client regarding its performance results and outputs.

   The Bank should give an independency and freedom to client to take decision in
    prioritizing the project activities and also have both client and borrower should have a
    close coordination meetings an order to make better the project implementation.




                                            41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Technical Annex

2. Financing Agreement.

3. Project Restructuring Papers.

4. Mission Aide Memoires and Management Letters.

5. Project Implementation Status Reports.

6. Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (2006) Interim Afghanistan
   National Development Strategy: An Interim Strategy for Security, Governance,
   Economic Growth & Poverty Reduction

7. Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (2008-2013) Afghanistan
   National Development Strategy: A Strategy for Security, Governance, Economic
   Growth & Poverty Reduction

8. Implementation Completion Report for the Afghanistan Short Term Urban Water
   Supply and Sanitation Project (P092162)

9. Implementation Completion Report for the Afghanistan Emergency Infrastructure
   Reconstruction Project (P077779)

10. Implementation Completion Report for the Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project
    (P083919)

11. World Bank, Afghanistan Transitional Support Strategy, March 2003

12. World Bank, Afghanistan Interim Strategy Note FY12-14

13. Extension of the Kabul Water Supply System, Final Design of Headworks Short
    Term Project, Vol. 1.1 Design Report, January 2008, JV Beller Consult - IGIP –
    BETS

14. AUWSSC Financial Statements and Auditor’s Reports




                                            43
MAP




      44
