 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14714

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/09/2015

               Country: Afghanistan
             Project ID: P087860                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Af: Urban Water              Project Costs (US$M):                      40.0                  18.3
                         Sector Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      40.0                  18.3
      Sector Board:        Water                       Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                 05/25/2006
                                                                 Closing Date:            06/30/2010           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Water supply (73%); Central government administration (27%)
          Theme(s):        Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (29%); City-wide Infrastructure and
                           Service Delivery (29%); State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (28%);
                           Infrastructure services for private sector development (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Robert Mark Lacey       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

Original Objective: " to assist the Recipient in increasing access to, and reliability of, the water supply and sewerage
service in its urban centers by: (i) establishing adequate institutional arrangements for the management of water
supply and sewerage; and (ii) extending the water supply system in Kabul" (Financing Agreement dated July 5, 2006,
Schedule 1, p.4).

The Grant Technical Annex p.4 lists the objective as follows: "to initiate actions to: (i) transform CAWSS [Central
Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage] into a technically viable operation; (ii) establish the financial sustainability
of the Afghan Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Company (AUWSSC - CAWSS’ successor); (iii) increase access to
and reliability of the water supply service in Kabul; and (iv) prepare a follow-up project under which more substantial
institutional and financial objectives could be achieved and coverage further expanded in Kabul and provincial towns".


Revised Objective: "to assist the Recipient to develop the capacity of the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and
Sewerage Corporation for operational management and investment planning and implementation" (Amendment to
Financing Agreement dated October 1, 2010, Schedule 1, Attachment 1). 5.6% of the amount of the Grant disbursed
at closure had been disbursed at the time of the Amendment.

This ICR Review carried out a split evaluation based on the original objectives as stated in the original Financing
Agreement and the revised objective stated in the October 2010 Amended Financing Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 10/01/2010

c. Components:

Component 1: Institutional Development of the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation
(AUWSSC) (appraised US$8.2 million; actual US$6.9 million) planned to re-organize the Central Authority for Water
Supply and Sewerage Corporation (CAWSS) into a public corporation to be responsible for the management and
development of urban water supply and sewerage assets and for the provision of quality water supply and sewerage
services in urban areas, through the provision of legal and technical advisory services. The activities also included
strengthening and improving the institutional capacity of the Strategic Business Units (SBUs) through, inter alia, the
preparation and execution of memoranda of understanding between AUWSSC's headquarters and each SBU, and
designing of a public private partnership arrangement for the management of water supply and sewerage services in
selected cities.

Component 2: Financial Support to AUWSSC (appraised US$5.6 million; actual US$11.4 million) aimed at
strengthening of the newly created AUWSSC, through the provision of financial support, including payment of
operation and maintenance costs, salaries of managerial and non- managerial staff, and bonuses.

Component 3: Extension of the Kabul Water Supply System (appraised US$18.3 million; actual US$0 million) aimed
at increasing access to and reliability of the water supply service in Kabul by developing the Logar II Water Supply
Scheme through, among other things, the development and equipping of a well field, the construction of a pumping
station, the supply and laying of pipes and equipment for the construction of a transmission line and the extension of
the distribution network, and the construction of a reservoir.

Revisions in the October 2010 restructuring:

    Component 1 was modified to include i) preparation of an investment program to increase water supply for Kabul;
     and ii) the development and implementation of a pilot scheme to expand water supply services by small private
     operators.
    Component 2: No changes.
    Component 3: Cancelled.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: The actual project cost was US$18.3 million, 46% of the appraised estimate of US$40 million due to
cancellation of civil works (about half of the estimated project cost), as a result of implementation delays.

Financing: Of the original IDA grant in the amount of US$40 million, US$18.3 million had been disbursed at project
closure. The IDA grant was supplemented with US$24.5 million of parallel financing from the German Development
Corporation (KfW), which was to provide institutional development to transform CAWSS into the independent
corporate utility AUWSSC, invest in the first phase of the medium term investment plan for urban water supply
infrastructure, prepare the detailed engineering designs and costing, and conduct construction supervision.

Borrower contribution . No Borrower contribution was planned, and none materialized.


Dates: The project closing date was extended three times by a total of 4 years from the original closing date of June
30, 2010 to June 30, 2014. The first extension was for three months to September 30, 2010 to allow for the Bank’s
internal processing of the project restructuring, which was completed on October 1, 2010. The 2010 restructuring
extended the closing date to June 30, 2012. The third extension was for an additional two years to June 30, 2014 to
allow completion of technical assistance activities and audits.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objective
High.
At appraisal, in 2005, piped water coverage in Afghanistan was estimated at 18%, among the lowest in the world.
Sewerage coverage was limited to a few Soviet-era apartment complexes in Kabul that served less than 2% of the
population. The Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage (CAWSS), then a department within the Ministry of
Urban Development Affairs (MUDA) responsible for urban service delivery across the country, was characterized by
poor operational, commercial and financial performance. The Government’s Interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy (ANDS) (March 2006) identified water supply and sanitation as a priority area for public
infrastructure investment. The Government aimed to supply piped water by 2010 to 50% of households in Kabul, and
30% of households in other major urban centers. To achieve this target, the Government developed the Urban Water
Supply and Sewerage Sector Policy, Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Institutional Development Plan, and
the Presidential Decree to corporatize CAWSS to the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation
(AUWSSC). The project development objectives were relevant to the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy of 2003
identifying water supply and sanitation as a key priority for investment, as well as the Bank's Interim Strategy of
FY12-14 aiming at improving provision of basic services, in particular urban and water services.

Revised Objective.
High.
The revised project development objective was highly relevant to the Government's focus on enhancing water supply
and sanitation services reflected in the Afghanistan National Development Strategies, and the Bank's Interim
Strategies at appraisal and completion aiming at improving provision of basic services. In particular, the Bank's
Interim Strategy Note of FY12-14 aimed at improving urban and water institutions and services. It emphasized that
key services including water and sanitation were inadequate for a growing urban population, and municipal authorities
lacked capacity to address them; the Note (p.25) specifically mentioned extension of further assistance to AUWSSC.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Original Objective.
Modest.
The investments in urban water supply and sanitation in Kabul (Component 3) as well institutional development and
financial support of the newly created water utility AUWSSC (Components 1 and 2) were intended to help increase
access to, and reliability of, the water supply and sewerage service in the country's urban centers.

A number of weaknesses in design led to delays and eventually cancellation of the third component related to civil
works. First, design did not factor in sufficiently the capacity of implementing staff, the political and legal context of the
post conflict state, and the lack of data and information on public institutions (ICR, p.6). Second, the project was
designed on the premise of AUWSSC being established before disbursements would begin, even though AUWSSC
had not yet been established as a legal entity at appraisal. These disbursement conditions resulted in the Recipient
being unable to access grant proceeds until the end of the original grant period in 2010. Third, design did not
adequately take account of the fact that during the period of conflict there were no functioning processes for the legal
registration of land and other facilities, in either the central government cadaster or the municipalities. As a result, a
lengthy process for asset re-registration, assessment and title transfer from CAWSS to AUWSSC substantially
delayed the corporatization process. Fourth, the project's third infrastructure component was dependent on the
preparation of detailed engineering designs financed by the German Development Corporation (KfW) as a parallel
financing, and these were delayed.

Revised Objective.
Substantial.
The revised project development objective was clear. Management and operational assistance to AUWSSC and
SBUs were intended to develop their capacity for operational management, and a pilot scheme for water supply
expansion by small private operators was expected to help AUWSSC develop capacity for investment planning and
implementation.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Original Objective : to assist the Recipient in increasing access to, and reliability of, the water supply and sewerage
service in its urban centers by: (i) establishing adequate institutional arrangements for the management of water
supply and sewerage; and (ii) extending the water supply system in Kabul. Modest.

Outputs
  Technical assistance was provided to transform CAWSS into an independent corporate entity- the Afghan Urban
    Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation (AUWSSC)- with an externally recruited management structure,
    accountability to a Board of Directors, and specific mandate to become a profitable business. The technical
    outputs included: draft bye-laws and amendments required for the Articles of Incorporation of AUWSSC;
    Memoranda of Understanding between AUWSSC-HQ and SBUs establishing the formal relationship between
    them; and AUWSSC organizational structure (assisted by a consultancy recruited at the end of 2011).

Outcome
    The corporatization process was completed. AUWSSC was established in May 2009. AUWSSC is accountable to
     its Board of Directors (BoD); Ministry of Urban Development Affairs appoints BoD Members; BoD accountable to
     Ministry; BoD appoints senior executives in AUWSSC; BoD responsible for AUWSSC's financial results.
    Civil works to extend the water supply system in Kabul were cancelled. There is no evidence of increased access
     to, or reliability of the water supply or the sewerage system in the Recipient's urban centers as a result of the
     actions taken prior to the project restructuring.

Revised Objective: to assist the Recipient to develop the capacity of the Afghanistan Urban Water Supply and
Sewerage Corporation for operational management and investment planning and implementation. Substantial.

Outputs
  Management and operational assistance was provided to develop the AUWSSC's capacity, including Quarterly
    Tariff and Cost Recovery Analysis reports, Quarterly Financial Projection Reports and operational reports, Prof
    orma Accounts for AUWSSC and the SBUs , Management Training Plan, a 10-year investment plan, a report on
    establishing a communication and public awareness strategy.
  Training was carried out for the AUWSSC Board of Directors on their fiduciary role and responsibilities.
  An external auditor was appointed to audit the financial statements of AUWSSC for FY 1388 (2009/10), 1389
    (2010/11), 1390 (2011/12), and 1391 (2012/13).
  Requirements for the operationalization of the financial management, accounting, billing and collection, and asset
    management systems were not completed .
  Technical assistance was provided (i) to pilot a scheme for expanding water supply services by small private
    operators for District 2 (Qol e Abchakan) in Kabul, and (i) to develop a feasible program of priority actions for
    rehabilitating the existing water supply system and provide water supply and wastewater services in unserved
    area in Eastern part of Kabul City.

Outcome

Operational management.
    Four financial statements of AUWSSC were produced and audited, exceeding the target of two.
    The accounts receivable performance of AUWSSC (the average number of months of revenue required to
     recover outstanding customer bills) improved from 3.5 months to 3 months but did not reach the target of 2
     months.
    The working ratio (calculated as total annual expenses excluding depreciation divided by total annual revenue),
     as reported by AUWSSC, improved from 1.17 to 0.68, exceeding the target of 1. This shows that costs were
     covered by revenue by a factor of almost 1.5. If the audited financial statements are used to assess AUWSSC’s
     ability to cover its basic operating costs from billed water sales, the ratio (calculated as total operating revenues
     divided by total operating expenses) improved from 1.6 in 2010 to 0.99 in 2013. An AUWSSC operating deficit of
     US$1.7 million at the start of the restructured project in 2010 became to a surplus of US$0.03 million in 2013.
    Average collections per connection increased from 988 Afs in 2010 to 2,363 Afs in 2014, well above the target of
     1,400 Afs.
    80% of samples tested met residual chlorine standards, below the target of 95%. The ICR notes that this value
     was reported at project closure but could not be verified (the procurement of chlorine, included in the revised
     procurement plan, was dropped due to delays).
    Metering levels increased from 36% to 72% of connections over the project period (ICR, p.13).
    An average tariff adjustment of 226% was approved by Presidential Decree on 11 June, 2012 for metered
     connections in residential areas, with the aim of improving AWSSC's financial viability. An estimate of a
     sustainable water tariff based on available data prepared in the Quarterly Tariff and Cost Recovery Analysis
     Reports was used to justify the adjustment.
    There is no formal budgeting or reporting relationship between SBUs and HQ and the decision making and the
     budgeting structure is still centralized (ICR, p.14).

Investment planning and implementation.
    1,200 household connections in Kabul were provided by small private operators, exceeding the target of 500. An
     additional 800 households were expected to benefit beyond this project's closure (ICR's Results framework).
    During project implementation, AUWSSC expanded urban operations from 14 towns to 43 towns (direct operation
     in 38 towns and joint operations with local municipalities in 5 towns).
    Water coverage by household connections increased from 17% of the urban population in 2010 to 20% in 2014,
     and water coverage by public water points decreased from 5% to 3% over that period (ICR, p.12)

5. Efficiency:

An economic analysis was not carried out at appraisal due to lack of reliable data (Technical Annex p.15). An ex-ante
financial analysis for the extension of the Kabul water supply system was based on the financial data collected over a
                                                                         3
limited time and forecast on the basis of average revenue per m collected from the new infrastructure; the Financial
Internal Rate of Return was estimated at 5.6%, with Financial Net Present Value at minus Afg 1,430 million (US$28.6
million) at a discount rate of 10% (Technical Annex p.15). The Kabul water supply component was cancelled during
implementation, and the project's funds were directed towards technical assistance activities.

The project's four year delay was affected by a number of administrative and operational inefficiencies that included
weaknesses in the Bank's quality at entry (see Section 8a below), political interference in the transition process from
CAWSS to AUWSSC (see Section 9a below), and procurement and disbursement delays.

Efficiency is assessed as modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                            Point Value                       Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                        No
      ICR estimate                     No
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original Objective: Based on high relevance of objectives, modest relevance of design, and modest ratings for
efficacy and efficiency, the outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Revised Objective: Based on high relevance of objectives, substantial relevance of design, substantial efficacy but
modest efficiency, the outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Based on the disbursement shares of 5.6% and 94.4% prior to and subsequent to project restructuring in October
2010, the overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Financial risk. The country's deepening fiscal crisis could result in a significant reduction in household incomes,
      thus effecting revenue collection.

     Institutional risk . The newly established water utility requires stronger support from the Ministry of Finance in
      appointing key staff with the appropriate skills, providing appropriate compensation packages, and allowing
      management autonomy in decision making. The ability to hire staff against the organizational needs of the new
      AUWSSC is hampered by the need to ensure retention of former CAWSS staff that may not be sufficiently skilled.


     Political and security -related risks remain high.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design was built on the Bank's multi-sector emergency infrastructure reconstruction project in
Afghanistan financed in 2002-2006. The project design had significant weaknesses that led to marked delays in
project implementation. In particular, disbursement conditions tied the project unnecessarily, resulting in the
Government being unable to access grant proceeds until the end of the original grant period in 2010 (see Section
3b above). The risk assessment was not comprehensive, in particular for implementation of the reforms in political
and legal context of the post conflict state. The infrastructure component was not ready for implementation at the
time of approval. The ICR (p.7) notes that during preparation it was confirmed that detailed designs were ready
and bidding documents could be prepared before the end of 2006 by consultants. However, it was not until almost
18 months later, in June 2008, that the consultant finalized the cost estimates based on the detailed design
(Implementation Status Report). Procurement delays and risks posed by components to be financed by other
donors (especially given the perennial delays in other projects financed by the donor community) were not
adequately assessed. Lack of data and information was not factored into the M&E design (see Section 10a
below). The provisions for safeguards and fiduciary compliance appeared adequate (see Section 11a below).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Before the October 2010 restructuring, supervision was carried out jointly for this project and the Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund- financed urban water supply and sanitation project (P092162). According to the ICR
(p.17), delays were apparent during the first year of project implementation and the supervision team proposed
project restructuring in 2007 and in 2008. The project was restructured in 2010, and as the ICR (p.17) reports the
project was consistently supervised twice a year (from New Delhi when the security situation deteriorated
markedly). The task team leadership changed four times during implementation, and from 2012, team continuity
was ensured by the Bank by having the team leader based in Kabul. The ICR (p.18) notes that the Bank’s
supervision oversight played a key role in ensuring that the institutional reform was implemented.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government instituted important reforms in the urban water and sanitation sector in line with international
practice. The Government played a critical role in supporting financial viability of AUWSSC through its tariff
reform, despite public pressure. In addition, the Government supported the disconnection of illegal connections
and the institution of penalties for their establishment.

According to the ICR (p.19), the Ministry of Finance was in a position to offer a stronger leadership in the reform
process and could have played a greater role in safeguarding AUWSSC from political interference in staffing. In
addition, the Ministry of Finance's Special Disbursements Unit (SDU) instituted disbursement requirements that
were not required by the Financing Agreement, placing the completion of external audits on the critical path of
disbursements. This persisted up to project closure, and the grace period had to be extended by two months to
enable full utilization of the post-restructured grant proceeds.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

AUWSSC was the implementing agency. According to the ICR (p.19), AUWSSC performed well in a difficult
post-conflict conditions. The AUWSSC management team showed firm commitment to extending services and
achieved improvements in its performance in a relatively short period.

The ICR (p.10) finds that procurement skills and staffing within AUWSSC were limiting factors. There were
substantial delays in procurement of managers, advisors, and consultants that slowed down project
implementation.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
 a. M&E Design:
   The Results Framework in the Technical Annex (Annex 8) included indicators, which are usual for monitoring
commercial, financial and service performance of utilities. However, AUWSSC did not have any processes in place to
collect, collate and analyze operational and financial data from SBUs in the level of detail required.

b. M&E Implementation:

During restructuring, the intermediate results indicators in the restructured project were simplified to measure key
performance areas that were easier to measure (ICR, p.8). The project development objective level indicators were
revised to: i) number of water utilities that the project is supporting; ii) AUWSSC is fully corporatized and took over
operation in urban areas; and iii) number of household connections in Kabul provided by small scale local providers.

The ICR p.12 notes inconsistencies between financial data and indicator definitions in Implementation Status and
Results (ISR) Reports and those in the Restructuring Paper. The ICR also found that data reported in the ISRs could
not be verified. Externally audited financial reports and quarterly operational data were provided by the AUWSSC's
Finance and Operations Departments respectively.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR (p.12) reports that for the purpose of assessing AUWSSC’s performance, the ICR used the data presented
in the audited financial statements.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
This was a Category B project that triggered the following safeguard policies: OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment;
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement; and OP 4.11 Cultural Property.

An environmental and social management framework was developed in keeping with emergency operations in
Afghanistan (ICR p.9). No progress was made in the planned construction of infrastructure. After restructuring, the
infrastructure component was cancelled and the scope of the project was limited to institutional development of
AUWSSC and preparation of a new proposed project. However, the restructured project remained Category B, and
the environmental and social management framework remained in effect. One pilot scheme for small scale providers
was implemented, where a mitigation plan for short term impacts was included in the contract for the small civil works
component (ICR, p.9). The ICR contains no information on OP 4.12 or OP 4.11, although in the absence of civil
works, it is likely that there were not triggered.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The ICR (p.10) reports that the Bank’s procurement guidelines were followed. Procurement
responsibility for the first six months was with consultants financed from the Afghanistan Short Term Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation Project (P092162), and subsequently with a Technical Advisor for the Ministry of Urban
Development Affairs (MUDA), for the next three years. The key issue affecting procurement was poor engineering
designs, which led to inaccurate cost estimates. After the project was restructured, procurement responsibility was
with AUWSSC, conducted through the centralized Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services (ARDS)
established in 2003. The departure of key procurement and finance managers, and the deteriorating security
conditions in 2013, resulted in a gap in the development of a complete procurement filing system, in which all records
were to be transferred from ARDS to AUWSSC. There were no reported cases of misprocurement.

Financial management. The ICR (p.9) reports that there were no internal control accountability issues. Project annual
financial reports were prepared and acceptable audit reports for the financial years were received within six months of
the end of the financial year. In 2013 there were deficiencies in the quality of the quarterly IFRs, but these were
subsequently rectified and accepted by the Bank. Financial management performance ratings reflected the need for
strengthening internal controls such as internal audits and improvements to the annual work program and budget
planning (ICR, p.9). The ICR does not state whether the opinions of the external auditors of the project were
unqualified or not.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately           Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory
                              Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory         and supervision is rated moderately
                                                                                 satisfactory. Since the overall outcome
                                                                                 is rated moderately satisfactory, the
                                                                                 overall Bank performance is rated
                                                                                 moderately satisfactory as per
                                                                                 OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:

    Implementation though government agencies, even if weak, facilitates institutional development by putting
     clients in the driver’s seat and promotes learning by doing.

    Disbursement conditions should be designed very carefully, or avoided altogether, to avoid tying up project
     funds unnecessarily.

    Rigorous quality at entry is essential, and timely restructuring should be carried out if needed.

    Project designs in fragile and conflict affected countries should consider simplification to reduce the use of
     international consulting firms in favor of individual consultants, in order to minimize large contracts and lengthy
     procurement time, key staff turn-over, and insufficient field presence.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise, outcome- oriented, and internally consistent. It is candid in describing the project design and
reasons behind the need to restructure the project. It offers a frank discussion of issues affecting the project. The
lessons are evidence- based. The aggregation of the overall Bank performance rating was not in accordance with the
ICR guidelines. There was also no mention of whether or not external project audits were qualified.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
