Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3996 - IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4756 - IN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Orissa Socio-Economic Development Program) 
 
among 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF ORISSA 
 
Dated November 10, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3996 - IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4756 - IN 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 2004 among INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF 
ORISSA (Orissa), acting by its Governor. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association and the Bank have received from India (the 
Borrower) a letter dated September 24, 2004, attaching a letter from Orissa describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal 
framework and public institutions of Orissa (hereinafter called the Program), declaring 
Orissa’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and the Borrower’s support 
thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association and the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
Orissa has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in the 
Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank; 
 
(C) 
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty seven million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,400,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(D) 
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an aggregate principal 
amount of eighty five million Dollars ($85,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(E) 
the Program will be carried out by Orissa with the Borrower’s assistance and the 
Borrower will make available to Orissa the local currency equivalent of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement and of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
-2- 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, in the Loan Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Loan 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 2.01. Orissa declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Program. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Orissa shall from time to time, at the request of the Association 
and the Bank, and in consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with the 
Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the Program, the actions 
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, Orissa shall furnish to the 
Association, the Bank and the Borrower for their review and comment, a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association and the 
Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Orissa shall promptly inform the Association, the Bank and the Borrower 
of any condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the 
performance by Orissa of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, Orissa shall consult the Borrower and exchange views with the Association 
and the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-3- 
Section 2.03. Orissa shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objective thereof; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, the Bank and the Borrower, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of 
the report and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
implementation of the Program and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on 
the conclusi
ons and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.  
 
Section 2.04. (a) Orissa shall utilize the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) 
of the Loan Agreement for its budgetary expenditures.  Orissa undertakes that any of 
such amounts shall not be used to finance expenditures under a contract in respect of 
which the Association or the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of Orissa during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without Orissa having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
(b) 
If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
such amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent 
with paragraph (a) above, Orissa shall be liable, upon request from the Association or the 
Bank, as the case may be, to refund such amount to the Association or the Bank through 
the Borrower.  Amounts refunded to the Association or the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for 
cancellation. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Orissa shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial conditions; and 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 (b) 
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Orissa shall: 
 
(i) 
have the said records, accounts and financial statements audited 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than four months after the date of the 
Association’s and the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as 
well as the audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Orissa shall, no later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the 
Rupee amounts transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement, provide a 
confirmation to the Association and the Bank showing the date and the Rupee amounts 
received from the Borrower, and stating that such amounts have been credited to the 
consolidated Fund of Orissa on that same date. 
 
(b) 
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Orissa shall, no later 
than sixty (60) days after the date of such request, provide to the Association and the 
Bank an audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank 
showing the date and the Rupee amounts transferred by the Borrower to Orissa pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the Bank 
and Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
Page  6
-5- 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; 
or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates 
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, 
the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Orissa of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)  
 
Page  7
-6- 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Orissa: 
 
Chief Secretary 
 
Government of Orissa 
Orissa 
India 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
845-2239 CSGK IN 
91-80-2258913 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be 
taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Orissa shall 
designate in writing, and Orissa shall furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Orissa, 
and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of Orissa to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the 
extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information to 
Orissa shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by the Association; 
and 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
(c) 
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and 
in the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
 
 /s/ Michael F. Carter 
 
Country Director, India 
 
STATE OF ORISSA 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ U. Sarat Chandran 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-8- 
SCHEDULE 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
 
Growth-enhancing Reforms
1. 
(a) 
Orissa has adopted a new industrial policy (IPR 2001) which, among 
other things, focuses on: 
 
(i) 
selective streamlining of laws and procedures; 
 
(ii) 
rationalizing entry regulations for private investors; and 
 
(iii)  
strengthening the capacity of the Government to perform 
regulatory role in a more transparent and effective manner. 
 
(b) 
Orissa has, consistent with the new IPR, initiated the implementation of 
the first set of administrative measures including: (i) adopting measures to improve the 
labor inspection regime; and (ii) introducing transparent and standard land rates for 
allotment of government land. 
 
2. 
Orissa has adopted a Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Policy 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank and has initiated the implementation of the 
said policy, including: (a) closing 10 unviable enterprises; (b) implementing a voluntary 
retirement scheme resulting in separation of over 25,000 employees; (c) initiating the 
privatization of 10 enterprises, including completing the process in respect of one such 
enterprise; and (d) initiating the restructuring of 3  key enterprises. 
 
3. 
Orissa has taken various measures to reform the power sector, including:  
(a) initiating a consultative process with state level public and private stakeholders with a 
view to developing an agreed Business Plan to achieve financial viability of the sector 
over the medium term; and (b) ensuring the payment of current electricity bills by state 
government departments of at least 95% of billing in the last quarter of Fiscal Year  
2003-04 as compared to 88% in the same quarter of the previous Fiscal Year. 
 
Fiscal Reforms and Expenditure Policy
4. 
Orissa has tabled in the Legislative Assembly of the State a Medium Term Fiscal 
Reform Framework (MTFRF) for the State, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
setting out policies, strategies and actions for carrying out a program of fiscal reforms 
covering the period from Fiscal Year 2002-03 to Fiscal Year 2007-08, with the objectives 
to:  
 
Page  10
-9- 
(i) 
convert the primary (non-interest) deficit of 1.5% of Gross State 
Domestic Product (GSDP) in Fiscal Year 2002-03 into a primary 
surplus of more than 2% percent of GSDP by Fiscal Year 2007-
08; and 
 
(ii) 
reduce the  overall fiscal deficit (net borrowing) from 9% of 
GSDP in Fiscal Year 2002-03 to no more than 3.5 percent of 
GSDP by Fiscal  Year 2007-08. 
 
5. Orissa 
has: 
 
(i)  
reduced the primary deficit from Rs.25 billion (6.5% of GSDP) 
in Fiscal Year 1999-2000 to less than Rs.7 billion(1.5% of 
GSDP) in Fiscal Year 2002-03 and to an estimated Rs.6.7 billion 
(1.4% of GSDP) in Fiscal Year 2003-04; 
 
(ii) 
reduced the overall fiscal deficit from 9.7% of GSDP in Fiscal 
Year 1999-2000 to an estimated 8.3% of GSDP in Fiscal Year 
2003-04; 
 
(iii) re
duced the ratio of salaries to state’s own revenues from over 
160% in Fiscal Year 1999-2000 to an estimated 99% in Fiscal 
Year 2003-04; and  
 
(iv) 
reduced the ratio of salary and pension bills to state’s own and 
mandated revenue from 110% in Fiscal Year 1999-2000 to an 
estimated 72% in Fiscal Year 2003-04; 
 
Public Expenditure Management and Governance Reforms
6. 
Orissa has made progress satisfactory to the Bank and the Association in 
prioritization of public spending through the implementation of the findings of zero-
based investment reviews including (i) closure of 83 unproductive schemes; and  
(ii) completion of 41 selected high-priority infrastructure investment schemes during 
Fiscal Years 2002-03 and 2003-04. 
 
7. 
Orissa has taken a number of measures to improve public procurement and 
financial accountability, including (a) approving a Development Action Plan on the basis 
of the findings of a State Financial Accountability Assessment for the purpose of 
strengthening the financial accountability system; (b) requiring the posting on website of 
tenders and bid documents for works costing more than Rs.5 million; (c) stipulating 
maximum time for scrutiny of tenders; and (d) providing incentives for timely completion 
of works. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
8. 
Orissa has taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency and 
productivity of the civil service, including: (a) separating 10% of 36,000 
temporary/casual employees; (b) continuing the de facto hiring freeze on civil service 
recruitment; and (c) redeploying about 1,200 regular employees from surplus to deficient 
departments. 
 
Human Development
9. 
Orissa has taken measures to ensure that ‘grants-in-aid’ are released to private 
educational institutions only on the basis of certificate of compliance with specified 
conditions by the qualifying institutions. 
 
10. 
Orissa has: (a) obtained cabinet  approval of, and published, a new strategy in the 
health sector which identifies priority health outcomes; and (b) approved a new Drug 
Management Policy for improving procurement of drugs on the Essential Drugs List and 
for framing Standard Treatment Guidelines. 
 
