                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                     Report No. 32765




                   SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                           ON

                                        A CREDIT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.4 MILLION (US$ 40 MILLION EQUIVALENT) AND

                                         A LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 85 MILLION

                                           TO

                                          INDIA

                                           FOR

                 THE ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                          (LOAN NO. 47560-IN/CREDIT NO. 39960-IN)


                                     DECEMBER 21, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                         (Exchange Rate Effective)

                                  Currency unit  =    Rupees (Rs.)

                                           Rs. 1 =    US$ 0.023218

                                        US $ 1   =    Rs.45.38

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                              April 1 ­ March 31

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CESCO Central Electricity Supply Company               MDM       Mid-Day Meals
DFID  Department for International Development         NTPC      National Thermal Power Corporation
DES   Directorate of Economics and Statistics          OERC      Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission
FR&BM Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management        OHSP      Orissa Health Sector Plan
                                                       OSEDL     Orissa Socio Economic Development
GIS   Geographic Information System                              Loan/Credit
GoO   Government of Orissa                             RBI       Reserve Bank of India
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                           SHGs      self-help groups
GSDP  Gross State Domestic Product                     SFAA      State Financial Accountability Assessment
IMR   Infant Mortality Rate                            TFC       Twelfth Finance Commission
MTFP  Medium-Term Fiscal Plan




                                    Vice President:      Praful Patel
                                 Country Director:       Michael F. Carter
                                   Sector Director:      Sadiq Ahmed
                                   Sector Manager:       Kapil Kapoor
                                   Task Managers:        V.J Ravishankar and Marina Wes




                                                      2

                                 Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                       For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Operation ID: P081882                                                 Operation Name: The Orissa Socio-Economic
                                                                      Development program
Team Leaders: V.J. Ravishankar, Marina Wes                            TL Unit: SASPR
                                                                      Report Date: 12/21/2005

1. Program Data

                  Name:     The Orissa Socio-Economic Development                    L/C Number:     Loan No. 47560-IN
                            Progam Loan/Credit                                                       Credit No. 39960-IN
  Country/Department:       INDIA                                                         Region:    South Asia

      Sector/subsector: BH-Sub-natl govt admin (60%); AZ-Gen agri/fish/for sec (10%);
                            YZ-Gen ind/trade sector (10%); EZ-Gen education sector (10%);
                            JA-Health (10%).
                 Theme: Policy Reform for Development


KEY DATES
                                                                                Original              Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:        January 7, 2003                                 Effective:    December 2, 2004      December 2, 2004
   Appraisal:     October 7, 2003                                     MTR:      n/a
   Approval:      November 2, 2004                                 Closing:     July 31, 2005         July 31, 2005

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           Government of Orissa
                     Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful Patel                                    Praful Patel
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                               Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:                 Kapil Kapoor                                    Kapil Kapoor
Team Leader at ICR:             V.J. Ravishankar, Marina Wes                    V.J. Ravishankar, Marina Wes
ICR Primary Author:             V.J. Ravishankar, Marina Wes

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
                                          Outcome: S
                                      Sustainability: L
               Institutional Development Impact: M
                               Bank Performance: S
                          Borrower Performance: S

                                                      QAG (if available)               ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: N/A                                 S
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time: No                                     No

3. Program Description

3.a. concise description of the overall program, citing any changes since the previous operation
The Government of Orissa's (GoO's) strategy to accelerate growth and poverty reduction is articulated in its
Tenth Five-Year plan and its draft "Vision 2020" strategy. The Government's core medium-term objectives
include: (i) GDP growth of 7-8% per year; (ii) reducing poverty by 7 percentage points during 2002-07 and by a
further 15 percentage points during 2008-12; (iii) ensuring that all children complete 5 years of schooling; (iv)
attaining universal primary education for all children aged 6-14; (v) lowering the Infant Mortality Rate (IMR)
by 3.5 percent per year, to 46 per 1000 life births in the next 15 years; (vi) increasing access to safe drinking
water; and (vii) reducing the gender gap in wage rates.

With these objectives in mind, the multi-pronged strategy of the Orissa Socio Economic Development Program
(OSEDL) focuses on:
    (i)      economic growth-enhancing reforms covering agriculture and land administration, regulatory
             framework governing private enterprise, and privatization and restructuring of public enterprises.
    (ii)     fiscal reforms aimed at improving the revenue system, saving on unproductive expenditures while
             increasing the fiscal space for priority public interventions and investment;
    (iii)    measures to strengthen administrative effectiveness, financial management and accountability,
             public procurement, anti-corruption, and service delivery;
    (iv)     investments in human development, including in education, health, and social protection; and
    (v)      poverty and human development monitoring & evaluation.

Revised components. The original components were not substantively revised, but consistent with the concept
of programmatic loans, the program itself is evolving over time. In light of Orissa's fiscal crisis, initial reforms
focused on the immediate necessity of fiscal correction. On the back of the recent fiscal improvements and
recent upturn in growth prospects, the focus of the reform effort has now shifted to support accelerated, broad
based and inclusive economic growth. Moving forward, the program will progressively begin to address the
huge challenges the state continues to face in accelerating human development. New actions have been added to
the program to support social protection and women's empowerment. Increased emphasis is also being placed
on measures to improve the performance of agriculture and allied activities.

3.b. brief description of the operation and its relationship to the program
The Bank Board approved the first of a proposed series of development policy loan/credit in November 20041,
in the amount of US$125 million, to support the first phase of the state's Socio-Economic Development
Program (OSEDL). OSEDL I sought to support a subset of 10 Prior Actions, as part of the overall reform
program and development strategy of Orissa. A complete list of Prior Actions supported by OSEDL I is given
in Annex I.

The development policy loans are part of an overall program of Bank assistance to Orissa, consistent with the
emphasis in the India Country Strategy approved by the Board on August 26, 20042. Support for poor and
reforming states is one of the major thrusts of this strategy. Orissa is one of India's poorest states and also one
of the most consistent reformers in recent years, thus making it an ideal candidate for continued Bank support.
In addition to OSEDL, the program includes:

    · A State Roads Project under preparation, focusing on investments of high priority for economic growth
         and poverty reduction in the state;




1R2004-0192,/2(IDA/R2004-0243/2)

2R2004-170.



                                                          2

    · A Rural Poverty Reduction Project under preparation, focusing on enhancing income earning
         opportunities for the rural poor, through investments in social capital including women's self-help
         groups;
    · A follow-on Water Resources project (expected but yet to be formally requested) that builds on the
         success achieved with participatory irrigation management under the recently completed water
         resources consolidation project;
    · A second health project (expected but yet to be formally requested), innovatively designed using recent
         analytical work, with multi-sector implementation arrangement, focused on reducing infant, child and
         maternal mortality to accelerate achievement of these key Millennium Development Goals in the state;
    · A Study on Economic Growth and Environment, under preparation, including options for equitable
         sharing of benefits from growth of extractive industries;
    · A Study of Agricultural Marketing, including value chain of selected products, to better inform GoO as
         it attempts to promote competition in the sphere of agricultural product marketing and storage services;
    · Dissemination of the findings of the Orissa Investment Climate Assessment Report;
    · Technical assistance for implementation of second generation reforms in the power sector, whose
         success is an essential component of improving the investment climate;
    · A pilot project to promote tourism, focusing on developing a cultural heritage site around ancient
         temples in the capital city, using a participatory approach involving the local community; and
    · A pilot project to expand income earning opportunities through the production and marketing of
         handlooms and medicinal plants, mobilizing non-governmental organizations to contribute to local
         capacity building.

Programmatic development policy lending plays a critical role in enhancing the effectiveness of these varied
forms of Bank support, by (i) enhancing space in the state budget for such priority development initiatives; (ii)
strengthening overall public financial management and effectiveness of public spending; and (iii) catalyzing
institutional development, including enabling mechanisms for improving government efficiency and for
innovations in service delivery.

The Bank is currently preparing OSEDL II, a follow-up operation to support components of the second phase of
the Orissa Socio-Economic Development program, scheduled to be presented to the Board during the third
quarter of 2005/06. The operation supports, in particular, economic growth-enhancing reforms as well as the
institutionalization of fiscal stabilization and government modernization.


4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The state has achieved remarkable progress in its fiscal correction objectives, and has over fulfilled the targets
set in its medium-term fiscal plan (2003-08). Prudent fiscal management has been institutionalized with the
enactment of the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management Act in 2005. Substantial progress has
been made in the implementation of reforms in the regulatory environment for private investment. Economic
growth has picked up and human development indicators are improving, albeit slowly.

A detailed description of achievements and the present status of program components are described in Annex 1.
In the summary discussion that follows, program objectives are grouped as outlined above.

4a. economic growth-enhancing reforms
Regulatory framework for private enterprise. GoO is continuing to move ahead with the implementation of the
"New Industrial Policy", supported by OSEDL I. The single window system has now been operationalized and
GoO has also notified the Industries Facilitation Rules earlier this year. Key provisions of the new legislation
include: (i) introduction of a Combined Application Form, reducing the number of application clearance forms


                                                          3

for establishment of industries required from 18 to one;(ii) introduction of a time bound clearance system; and
(iii) self-certification for compliance with provisions of applicable industry and labor related Acts & Rules;

Dividends are beginning to appear: private investor interest in large-scale investments in Orissa has increased
significantly and now involves large-scale foreign direct investment, including the largest ever foreign direct
investment project in India (US$ 12 billion), by the South Korean steel company POSCO. During 2004-05,
investment rose to US$32 million, up from US$0.7 million in 2003/04. Orissa rose to first rank among Indian
states, according to data compiled by the Center for Monitoring the Indian Economy, on "investment projects
under implementation". Economic growth has accelerated in recent years, including faster growth in mining,
agriculture and service sectors; real growth is estimated at 7.5% on average over the past two years (2003/04
and 2004/05), compared to less than 4% during the 1990s. Although manufacturing growth has been stagnant
so far, it is expected to pick up as ongoing investments are completed and go into production.

Agriculture. Improving the productivity, market orientation and access of agricultural produce in Orissa is
critical to reducing poverty. The hand-over of irrigation management to water user associations was an
important achievement under the Bank supported Orissa Water Resources Consolidation Project3. This process
of institutional reform has continued during 2005, with the amount of irrigated land handed over rising from 0.5
million hectares to 0.75 million. Computerization of land records, which will lead to significant reductions in
transaction costs is also proceeding and is scheduled to be completed by end-2005. To facilitate private
investment in marketing yards and storage facilities for agricultural products, and to enable contract farming,
amendments to the Agricultural Produce Markets Act were approved by the Orissa Cabinet on February 28th
2005 and introduced in the State Legislature on April 5th 2005. It is expected to be passed during the current
winter session of the Legislature, and implementation will be monitored during 2006.

Public enterprise reform. Orissa has continued its progress with public enterprise reform over the past year.
The privatization program is moving ahead, and the privatization of 3 further enterprises, in addition to the
enterprise supported by OSEDL I, is planned to be completed shortly. Assets have now also been sold in 6 of
the closed enterprises. This program has contributed to the improvement in the state's fiscal position, by
reducing and eliminating the burden of providing budget support to loss making enterprises. Such support,
excluding the power sector, amounted to about 1% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2000-01. The
program has contributed to reducing the outstanding contingent liability on account of state guaranteed loans
raised by public enterprises ­ from US$ 1.15 billion (9.6% of GSDP) on March 31, 2004 to US$ 0.85 billion
(6.6% of GSDP) on March 31, 2005.

Power sector. Over the OSEDL-I period, there has been mixed progress in Orissa's power sector reforms. On
the positive side, reforms have continued to deliver improvements in service quality, facilitate lucrative power
exports by the state-owned transmission and trading company, and stabilize sector finances, including full
coverage of operating costs from tariff collections. On the negative side, reforms under OSEDL-I progressed
slower than expected ­ particularly in the areas of system loss reduction and service extension into rural areas.

Over the last 12-18 months, consumers have reported improvements in the quality of service (per 2005 surveys
linked to the Investment Climate Assessment), and discoms have improved collections (estimated to be 90% in
2004/05 compared to 85% in 2003/04 and 80% in 2002/03), enabling them to cover operating costs and
servicing a part of the stock of accumulated debt. These improvements have been aided by cheaper bulk power
supply (due to good monsoon rains and a higher proportion of lower cost hydropower) and favorable changes in
the customer mix on account of general improvements in the business climate. Aggregate technical and
commercial (AT&C) losses, while still high by industry standards, have continued to improve - 47% in 2004/05
compared with 52% in 2003/04 and 55% in 2002/03 (details in Annex III).

3 Implementation Completion Report No. 31323: India Orissa Water Resources Consolidation Project (Vol 1) India




                                                          4

This progress has built on reforms completed prior to OSEDL 1 - unbundling of the vertically-integrated power
utility, establishment of the autonomous Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission (OERC), privatization of
distribution, privatization of one generation plant and private participation (49%) in another power plant, and
improvements in the payment discipline of government departments.

While reasons for slow progress with reforms under OSEDL-1 are complex, they include a lackluster effort by
owners and management of the distribution companies and insufficient incentives in the regulatory framework
to improve system efficiency or to connect rural customers more aggressively. A hands-off attitude by the
Government has not helped the reform process in a sector where a constructive public-private partnership will
be vital for the reforms to succeed. Poor performance of the largest distribution company, CESCO, and walkout
of its private management in 2003 resulted in OERC placing the company under state management, revoking its
operating license in early 2005, and initiating its re-privatization. Pre-qualification of interested buyers is
underway (5-6 companies have submitted PQ documents) and the privatization process is expected to be
completed by March 2006. The performance of the other three private distribution companies, all owned by the
same business house (Reliance Energy) has also been lackluster. The successful re-privatization of CESCO will
increase regulatory and competitive pressures on the other 3 companies to improve performance..

The OERC has approved, in February 2005 and after much debate between the licensees, GoO and other
stakeholders, the Business Plans for the performance improvement of the four distribution companies. The
OERC order obliges the discoms to meet specified system loss reduction targets (3-4% per year over the next 3
years) and obliges GRIDCO (the bulk power supplier) and GoO to assist the discoms to restructure the stock of
their debts on affordable terms.

Establishment of a credible mechanism to ensure timely and full payment of current electricity bills by both
state and local governments was another outcome that was expected in 2004-05.              While payments by
government departments (accounting for about 5% of total billing) have improved (from 81% in 2004/05 and
about 86% for the first 6 months of 2005/06), payment mechanisms need further strengthening. Payments by
urban local bodies (including water supply departments) have also remained poor (about 50% of billings) and
credible payment mechanisms have not been instituted. Finally, the government has dragged its feet on
supporting the OERC's financial independence (funding rules have only recently approved by the GoO and sent
to the Accountant General's office for approval) and strengthening the policing and prosecution of electricity
theft as required under the Electricity Act 2003 (while 5 special police stations were established in early 2005,
they have not become operational because the courts are ill-prepared to render speedy justice).

The focus of subsequent Bank-financed operations in support of power sector reforms under Orissa's Socio-
Economic Development Program will be on advancing the efficient commercialization of the sector and
extending electricity services to rural areas in a demand-responsive and sustainable manner. Reform actions to
be completed prior to appraisal of OSEDL-II 2 will include implementation of agreed debt-restructuring actions
under the OERC order pertaining to CESCO, an improving trend in the payment of the government's electricity
bills, and progress in establishing a framework to improve payments for electricity by urban local bodies. The
attention to supporting CESCO is based on the concerted steps it has taken over the last 6-9 months to improve
performance (while the management of the other 3 discoms appears to have deteriorated) and because the
support will improve the prospects for CESCO's re-privatization. State government support to the three
privately-managed distribution companies is likely to be linked to improvements in their management and
overall performance, including adhering to the aggregate technical and commercial loss reduction targets set in
the OERC Order.

In the years ahead, the Bank expects to support the extension of electricity services to rural areas where less
than 30% of the population have access to service (by helping put in place demand-responsive and sustainable
service provision arrangements) and to support the continued improvement in commercial performance of the
distribution companies (including implementation of their approved business plans).




                                                        5

4b. fiscal reforms and expenditure policy
The overall fiscal health of the Government of Orissa has experienced a significant improvement during the
period 2000-2005. The targets set by the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) approved in August 2004, which
formed the basis for appraisal and negotiation of OSEDL-I, have all been met (Annex II and Figures 1 ­ 4).
Preparation of annual budgets consistent with an approved MTFP has been institutionalized through the
enactment of the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management (FR&BM) Act, 2005, which came into
effect from June 14, 2005. The Act stipulates that GoO shall achieve a current balance by 2008/09, with overall
fiscal deficit contained within 3% of GSDP. It also mandates several measures for fiscal transparency including
annual reporting of unpaid bills along with the cash based financial accounts.

According to the latest figures provided by the Accountant General, the primary fiscal balance has been
converted from a deficit of 6.5% of GSDP in 1999/00 to a surplus of 2.7% in 2004/054 ­ a correction of 9.2
percentage points in five years (Figure 1). Orissa has managed to raise its own revenue to GDP ratio from 6.3%
in 1999/00 to 9.2% in 2004/05. The state's own revenues increased by 20% in real terms in 2004/05 alone,
accounting for nearly half of the correction in the primary balance that year. Revenue enhancement has been
largely the result of strengthening of tax administration and improved tax compliance, aided by strong anti-
corruption actions.       Expenditure contraction has been achieved mainly through wage bill restraint and
closure/reform of loss making public enterprises. The state no longer faces liquidity constraints as it did until
2003. There was not a single day in 2004/05 when GoO was in overdraft with the Reserve Bank of India, in
striking contrast to the pre-2004 period. The overall fiscal deficit has declined to 3.1% of GSDP in 2004-05,
way ahead of the targets set by the Orissa FR&BM Act (Figure 2)

                        Figure 15                                                     Figure 2

   -8.0%           Primary Balance (% GSDP)                                       Fiscal Deficit (% of GSDP)
                                                                   12.0%
              -6.5%
   -6.0%                                                           10.0%      9.7%               9.2%               MTFP
                                                                                                               8.3%
                                                   MTFP                                                  8%         Target
   -4.0%               -2.7%                                       8.0%                                                 7.1%
                                 -2.6%            Target
                                                                   6.0%
   -2.0%                                   -1.5%                                                               4.6%

                                                                   4.0%
    0.0%                                                                                             Achieved
                                                     0.7%          2.0%                                                3.1%
    2.0%                                                    2.7%
                                     Achieved                      0.0%
    4.0%                                                                 1999/00  2000/01  2001/02   2002/03 2003/04 2004/05

         1999/00   2000/01  2001/02   2002/03   2003/04  2004/05



Expenditure composition, although still burdened by the state's high debt servicing burden, is also improving.
The ratio of the salary bill to the state's own revenues ­ selected by GoO as a key indicator of its fiscal reform
efforts ­ has been reduced from over 150% in 1999/00 to less than 90% in 2003/04; it is estimated to have
fallen below 80% in 2004/05. Capital outlays increased by 18% in real terms in 2004/05, recovering from a low
base. Out of 25 high priority investment schemes identified by zero-based investment reviews, 18 were
completed in 2004-05. The sectoral composition of recurrent spending, net of interest and pension payments,
has also improved slightly in favor of human development spending.

After increasing since the mid-1990s to a peak of 63% in 2002/03, the debt stock to GSDP ratio has now begun
to decline (Figure 3). The ratio of interest payments to total revenue has declined even more rapidly, as a result


4    Primary surplus in 2004-05 adjusted to exclude one-time factors affecting that year's outcome.
5    MTFP targets of August 2004 have been used in the graphs. Since actual figures, as per AG accounts, were not
     available for 2003-04 at the time of negotiation of OESDL I, best estimates that GoO had made in consultation with
     the Bank team were used. Now the actuals of 2003-04 as well as the preliminary actuals for 2004-05 are available and
     have been used (audited finance accounts would be available by the time OSEDL-II is negotiated).


                                                                6

of debt swaps arranged with the Government of India during 2002-05, and additional debt pre-payment by GoO
during 2004-05, using OSEDL-I financing. The interest to revenue ratio fell from its peak of 40.2% in 2001-02
to 28.6% in 2004-05 (Figure 4). It is projected to decline further to below 20% by 2009-10.

                            Figure 3                                                         Figure 4

                          Debt/GSDP (%)   MTFP                                 Interest/Revenue (%)
     80%                                 Target69%       72%   45%                                         M TFP
     70%                            63%
                                                               40%                                        Target
                                                                                                                 33.3%
     60%                55%                                    35%

     50%                                             59%       30%
            47%                                                25%
     40%                                                                                       Achieved
                                          Achieved                                                               28.6%
                                                               20%
     30%                                                        15%

     20%                                                        10%

                                                                5%
     10%  1999/00  2000/01 2001/02 2002/03  2003/04 2004/05
                                                                0%
      0%                                                            1999/00  2000/ 01 2001/ 02 2002/ 03 2003/ 04 2004/05




The MTFP, currently being updated to take into account the 2004-05 outcome and the Twelfth Finance
Commission (TFC) award, is expected to strengthen the already observable shift in the economic composition
of public expenditure in Orissa, away from interest payments, salaries, pension, subsidies, loans and guarantees
to unviable public enterprises; towards capital outlays and non-wage operations and maintenance in
infrastructure and human development. GoO is committed to make space in the updated MTFP for adequately
enhancing allocations for road maintenance, education and health care, so as to qualify for earmarked
conditional central grants (under the TFC award) as well as available donor funds under centrally sponsored
programs.

4c. public financial management, administration and accountability

Based on the findings and recommendations of the State Financial Accountability Assessment (SFAA), 20046,
GoO prepared and approved a detailed Development Action Plan (DAP) in August, 2004. Since then, a number
of measures have been initiated to achieve greater transparency, performance orientation and openness in all
areas of financial accountability (see Annex I). Some of these initiatives, along with fiscal reform measures, are
already bearing fruit, as evidenced by improved financial performance during the year 2004/05 and the fact that
the State has not resorted to overdraft or advances from Reserve Bank of India (RBI) during the year, for the
first time in 22 years. Increased focus and close monitoring of the submission of Utilization Certificates for
central plan and centrally sponsored programs has resulted in almost doubling in the utilization of such central
funds, from Rs. 14.65 billion in 2003-04 to Rs. 28 billion in 2004-05.

While many states find it difficult to proceed against high level corruption, by proceeding against its own senior
officers (39 cases filed in 2004-05), GoO has sent a strong signal about its commitment to tackle corruption.
According to official statistics published in Crime in India, Orissa has one of the highest levels of registered
cases on corruption among all states, indicating better anti-corruption enforcement. Strengthened anti-
corruption initiatives in 2003-04 contributed to the excellent revenue performance in 2004-05, as a result of
improved compliance with tax laws and reduced degree of tax evasion. The commitment to anti-corruption
provides a strong base to take forward more critical reforms in the areas of prevention and enforcement,
including reforms in corruption prone systems and processes.




6    The State Financial Accountability Assessment (SFAA) was conducted by the World Bank and Department for
     International Development (DFID) in collaboration with GoO.



                                                            7

Following a recent decision of the political leadership to move as rapidly as possible towards implementing e-
procurement in the state to achieve transparency and fair competition, GoO has appointed a consultant to
conduct an assessment of system requirements and prepare the action plan for implementing e-procurement. To
ensure participation across sectors, it has established an E-Procurement Committee, consisting of the Secretaries
of Water Resources, Panchayati Raj, General Administration, Works, Information Technology, and Rural
Development. Government approval of a comprehensive Anti-Corruption Action Plan, including reforms in the
procurement system, is a prior action for appraisal of OSEDL-II.

With respect to public administration reforms, the actions supported by OSEDL-I included civil service
restructuring through the termination of temporary staff, redeployment of regular staff and a freeze on new
recruitment in non-essential categories. The hiring freeze is still in place, with select exemptions in priority
areas. The salary bill for temporary staff has fallen dramatically, from US$ 7 million in 2003/04 to an estimated
US$ 4 million in 2004/05. The state government has also succeeded in redeploying 3378 staff (against the target
of 1200 supported by OSEDL I). The bulk of redeployed staff comprise of teachers who have been placed in
underserved schools and educational institutions.

There has been considerable progress in taking forward service delivery reforms using e-governance and
Information Technology applications. Computerization of land records has been completed in 151 out of 172
tehsils, with Records of Rights being made available to all land owners. Digitization of cadastral maps has
begun. The Transport Department is carrying out the computerization of driving licenses and motor vehicle
registration and the modernization of border check posts. GoO is also piloting in the capital city of
Bhubaneswar an ambitious plan to strengthen municipal services, including computerization of property taxes,
Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping, and registration of births and deaths. E-governance is also
being used to monitor progress, both physical and financial, of poverty alleviation schemes by the Panchayati
Raj department.

Recognizing the need to establish appropriate institutional mechanisms to lead and implement public
management reforms, GoO is in the process of designing a comprehensive and overarching Orissa Modernizing
Government Initiative. The objective is to support a series of cross-cutting and department-specific reform
processes aimed at improving the efficiency, transparency and accountability of government in delivering better
public services, particularly for the poor. The program will consist of a pool of Technical Assistance that can be
utilized by Departments and training institutions to develop methodologies and tools, to implement reforms and
to strengthen monitoring and evaluation systems.

4d. human development

Education. GoO has taken important measures to utilize the available resources more efficiently. First, the
reorganization action plan of the Department of School and Mass Education is now being finalized. This plan
includes abolishing non-essential posts and redeploying staff to those areas where more support is required. A
second measure is recruitment of para-teachers, who now constitute one-third of the total elementary education
teachers in the state. In order to optimally use the available human resources, the state needs to focus on rational
teachers' deployment and redeploying staff to those areas where more support is needed

Given that 60% of all salary expenditure by the Department of Higher Education is in the form of grants-in-aid
and that `grants-in-aid' has limited success in enhancing equity and quality of education, GoO has taken a
number of steps to limit aid to private institutions, and censure them for non-performance. There has been a
complete freeze on the number of educational institutions receiving such grants, while aid has been
discontinued in the case of 21 high schools where not a single student has passed in the last three years.
Moreover, for all institutions that became eligible for grants post-1994, salary-based grants have been replaced
by block grants, which are 40 percent of the pre-revised 1994 salary scales.




                                                          8

Health. Orissa significantly lags behind the rest of India on several critical health indicators, including infant
and child mortality. A Bank assisted Orissa Health Systems Development project, due to close shortly, has
revealed several institutional weaknesses that hamper effective delivery of health care services. Currently, the
largest category of expenditure across all levels of public health care is for salaries ­ more than 85%. The
successful implementation of fiscal reforms has enabled GoO to begin correcting this imbalance in expenditure
composition. . A comprehensive Orissa Health Sector Plan (OHSP), aligned closely with the National Rural
Health Mission strategy, is in an advanced stage of preparation. Implementation of this plan is expected to
address many of the institutional weaknesses. Actions supported under OSEDL-I include:

    · Departmental Reorganization. GoO has taken a number of steps identified by the Organizational
        Review conducted in 2003-04, including: the abolition of some departmental posts, conversion of
        paramedical staff to district cadres, and posting of Indian Systems doctors to single doctor primary
        health care centers on a pilot basis, in order to mitigate the short supply of doctors in rural areas.
    · Drug Management. A centralized drug procurement system is in place and operational; an essential
        drug list has been compiled; standard treatment guidelines have been developed and are being utilized
        by health facilities; and a computerized drug inventory management system is functional. Although the
        drug budget remains substantially under-funded, these actions collectively have resulted in cost savings,
        and improved availability of essential drugs at public health facilities.

Several positive initiatives are already ongoing or soon to be started, towards improving the effectiveness of
public expenditure on social welfare and anti-poverty programs, an area that did not feature in the policy
dialogue under the first Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit. An impressive database has been
created on core anti-poverty programs. In some districts, distribution of food grains has been transferred from
Fair Price Shops to women's self-help groups (SHGs). A July 2005 circular transfers management of Mid-Day
Meals (MDM) implementation to women's SHGs.


4e. poverty and human development monitoring & evaluation

The framework for poverty and human development monitoring consists of three subcomponents: (i)
strengthening institutional capacity for design and execution of large-scale surveys and data processing; (ii)
improving institutional capacity for poverty analysis; and (iii) expenditure tracking of selected anti-poverty
schemes. Progress is being made on all fronts:

    · The capacity of the Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES) to collect and process socio-
        economic data has been appreciably strengthened. This has substantially decreased the time needed for
        processing of general economic and poverty-related data (in some instances from several years to only a
        few months). With the help of the World Bank and DFID, extensive training is being conducted for the
        statistical officers from DES headquarters and from district offices in various aspects of data
        management, including poverty-related statistics.

    · GoO has published the Orissa Human Development Report 2004, which presents detailed analysis of
        determinants and correlates of poverty and key human development indicators. This not only provides a
        baseline but also identifies key constraints for poverty and human development in Orissa.

    · An Expenditure Tracking Study, focusing on rural employment programs and child feeding programs,
        was launched by GoO with Bank support in early 2005. The purpose is to go beyond simple tracking of
        expenditures, and identify issues that hamper the delivery of services under the two programs, including
        mis-targeting and flouting of rules or guidelines. GoO has agreed to conduct a Workshop in early 2006,
        with participation of the Bank and other donors, to help translate the findings of the Expenditure
        Tracking Study and other quick evaluations of important ongoing programs, into actions for improving
        the effectiveness of public expenditure on social protection.




                                                          9

4f. ratings
The outcome of OSEDL I is rated satisfactory on the basis of the objectives and outputs achieved as described
in the above subsections. Sustainability is considered likely, even though the program is still at an early stage.
The primary risk is that implementation of the policy program may be slower than planned because of
institutional capacity constraints, but this risk is mitigated somewhat by the fact that important up-front actions,
laying the foundations for subsequent reforms, have already been taken. To help alleviate capacity constraints,
and in close cooperation with other donors, the Bank team has ensured that sufficient technical assistance is
available to follow through on the policy measures supported by the program. Moreover, the renewed political
mandate following the 2004 elections has strengthened the commitment of the Chief Minister and his team to
press ahead in implementing the reform program and to broaden its scope, thereby ensuring sustainability of
reform momentum for the next few years. Several components of the reform program, including in public
expenditure and financial management, as well as in governance, indicate that the structures needed to support
reform processes are becoming institutionalized. Institutional development is rated as modest as these structures
are still in an early stage.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Most of the measures supported by OSEDL I were within the Government's control and good progress has been
made in implementing the reform agenda, with encouraging outcomes (discussed above). However, in the
power sector, measures required to improve performance involved actions not only by the Government, but also
by private distribution companies and an independent regulatory authority (OERC). While the Government
attempted to reach a negotiated agreement on a power sector Business Plan in early 2004, such negotiations did
not yield fruit partly due to lack of cooperation from the main private players. Rather than delay the first
operation on account of factors beyond the government's control, the Bank team took a flexible approach and
negotiated OSEDL-I without requiring an agreed business plan as a prior condition, while at the same time
reducing the size of the operation to US$125m instead of US$150m as originally envisaged. The Regulator has
now issued an Order on the Business Plan (in February 2005), and implementation of this order as well as
improved payment levels of current electricity bills by government departments to distribution companies is a
condition for successful appraisal of OSEDL-II.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank performance is rated as satisfactory on basis of the following criteria:

    · The Bank has been proactive and played a supportive role in the State through its long-standing
          engagement with Orissa. Simultaneously, the Operation was only processed by the Bank after the
          record of implementation of the initial stage of the policy program became persuasive. At the political
          level, this coincided with elections returning the incumbent Chief Minister and coalition, unlike in
          many other Indian States, for a second term. This strengthened the commitment of the Chief Minister
          and his Team in pressing ahead with the implementation of Orissa's Socio-Economic Development
          Program.

    · The Operation was informed by significant analytical work, including a number of Bank notes, as well
          as work done by GoO and DFID. These documents assisted in the design of the loan/credit operation
          and enabled the Bank Team to be proactive in the design of a robust yet flexible and realistic program
          of support in a difficult environment.

The Borrower's performance and ownership and implementation of the program has also been satisfactory. All
the key reforms supported by the Operation were implemented prior to Board Approval. The reform program
has been owned by the State, and is backed by political commitment at the highest level. Key policy papers that
underpin the policy program have been approved by the Cabinet and GoO's strategy to accelerate growth and
poverty reduction is articulated in its Tenth Five-Year plan; and its "Vision 2020" is under preparation.




                                                          10

Continuation in leadership of the key policy team in the Government of Orissa has greatly aided the ownership
and implementation of the program.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

One of the key lessons learnt in the course of the policy dialogue with the Government of Orissa as well as with
other Indian states is the need for strong analytical underpinning for designing effective state level policy based
lending. This has been adequately assured in the case of Orissa. Another lesson is the need to take into account
the political economy of implementing reforms. For the reform program to gain public support and be
politically sustainable in Orissa, it is essential to move beyond the original immediate objective of fiscal
correction, and address the key developmental needs of this poor state. This lesson has informed and continues
to influence the design of the program and of the operation. Taking into account political economy factors has
also led to a gradualist approach to the privatization of public enterprises in the state, given that the national
government has placed privatization largely on hold for the time being, due to political opposition.

The state is on track to have fulfilled 9 out of 10 indicative milestones for OSEDL-II by December 2005, and
thereby qualifies for the second loan/credit in the series, which is expected to be delivered during January-
March, 2006.




                                                          11

       ANNEX I: Outcomes of reforms supported under OSEDL I and indicative triggers for OSEDL II

 Reforms supported under                    Intermediate Outputs/Outcomes                         OSEDL II indicative triggers
           OSEDL I


                                       I. ECONOMIC GROWTH-ENHANCING REFORMS
                               Objective: Improving the regulatory environment for private enterprise
Adoption of "new industrial       Private investor interest in Orissa has increased       As envisaged in the new industrial policy,
policy", and implementation       dramatically over the past 12 months.                   Government to approve the Industries
of first set of administrative    During 2004-05, Orissa has risen to first rank          Facilitation Bill and pave the way for
measures in line with the         among Indian states, according to data compiled by      establishment of a `single window' (SW)
policy, including adopting        the Center for Monitoring the Indian Economy, on        mechanism. GoO to notify the Industries
measures to improve the           "investment projects under implementation". A           Facilitation Rules, including the following
labor inspection regime, and      record number of investment proposals were              key provisions: (i) Introduction of a
introducing transparent and       received over the past one year amounting to about      Combined Application Form (CAF), reducing
standard rates for allotment      Rs. 1200 billion (US$ 28 billion).                      the number of application clearance forms for
of government land.                                                                       establishment of industries required from 18
                                  Real growth is estimated at 7.5% on average over        to one;(ii) Introduction of a time bound
                                  the past two years (2003/04 and 2004/05),               clearance system; and (iii) Self-certification
                                  compared to less than 4% during the 1990s.              for compliance with provisions of applicable
                                                                                          industry and labor related Acts & Rules.
                                  Investment has increased from US$0.7 million in
                                  2003/04 to US$32 million in 2004/05. Estimates of
                                  proposed investment suggest a further increase will
                                  take place in 2005/06.

                                     Objective: restructuring and privatization of public enterprises
Continued progress with           Privatization of 3 more units is now at an advanced     Continued progress with implementation of
(non-power) Public                stage. Assets of 6 of the closed enterprises have       (non-power) Public Enterprise reforms,
Enterprise reforms, including     been sold.                                              including privatization/divestment of at least
closure of 10 unviable                                                                    2 additional units.
enterprises, separation of        Reduction in the direct fiscal burden and contingent
over 25,000 employees             liabilities generated by loss making public
under the voluntary               enterprises ­ loans advanced by the state
retirement scheme, initiation     government have declined from 0.9% of GSDP in
of restructuring plans for 3      2003-04 to 0.4% in 2004-05; outstanding state
key enterprises, and              guaranteed debt of public enterprises and agencies
initiation of privatization of    has declined from 9.6% of GSDP to 6.6% in the
10 enterprises, including         same period.
completion of the
privatization process for one
of these.
                      Objective: to improve financial performance and strengthen reliability and access to supply
Initiate a consultative           The financial performance of the sector has             Establish a credible mechanism to ensure
process with state level          improved, with the three privately managed              timely and full payment of current electricity
public and private                distribution companies paying 100% of their bulk        bills by both state and local governments;
stakeholders in the power         supply tariff bills for over a year, and also servicing finalize and publish the Business Plan and
sector with a view to             a part of their dues to National Thermal Power          begin implementation; operationalize
developing an agreed              Corporation (NTPC). The publicly managed                measures to curb theft.
Business Plan to achieve          distribution company (CESCO) has reduced the
financial viability in the        gap between billing and payment to Rs.10 million
sector over the medium term;      per month, down from Rs.60 million half a year
also, ensure payment of           ago. Preliminary estimates for 2004-05 indicate
current electricity bills by      overall collection efficiency of 89% (for all the
state government                  distribution companies aggregated together)
departments, of at least 95%      compared to 85% in the previous year; the private
of billing in Jan-Mar 2004        discoms are collecting over 95% of bills from
                                  government departments while CESCO still lags
                                  with collection levels of about 66% from
                                  government departments.

           Objective: to improve agricultural connectivity, security of land tenure and the efficiency of public investment

Table in the State Legislature  Amendment to the Orissa Agricultural Produce            Introduce amendment to the Orissa
draft Rules under the Paani     Markets Act has been introduced and is awaiting         Agricultural Produce Markets Act so as to lift
Panchayat Act, to ensure        approval by the legislature.                            state monopoly and enable private investment
empowerment and                                                                         in marketing yards and storage facilities.
effectiveness of water user     Agriculture growth has accelerated to more than
associations; Initiate          10% on average during 2003/04 and 2004/05,
improvements in land rights     compared to negative growth during the nineties.
including by computerizing
land records.  7                The hand-over of irrigated land under water user
                                associations is continuing and 0.75 million hectares
                                has now been handed over; up from 0.5 million
                                hectares in late 2004.

                                Computerization of land records has been
                                completed in 151 out of 172 tehsils, up from
                                around 60 in late 2004, with records of land rights
                                being made available to all owners.


                                     II. FISCAL REFORMS AND EXPENDITURE POLICY
                                              Objective: to achieve fiscal sustainability

Table in the State Legislature  Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget                   Table in the State legislature a Fiscal
a Medium-Term Fiscal Plan       Management Act, 2005, enacted and effective.            Responsibility Bill.
(MTFP) that targets a
primary surplus of over 2%      Primary fiscal surplus of 2.7% of GSDP achieved         Execution of the 2004/05 budget, and budget
of GSDP and overall fiscal      in 2004/05.                                             targets for 2005/06 to be consistent with the
deficit (net borrowing) of                                                              MTFP
less than 3.5% by 2007/08.      Overall fiscal deficit was 6.6% in 2003-04
                                according to audited accounts and 4.6% excluding        Primary deficit to decline below 0.5% of
Primary deficit reduced from    one-time impact of securitization of power sector       GSDP in 2004-05.
Rs. 25 billion (6.5% GSDP)      dues; it was reduced to 3.1% of GSDP in 2004-05.
in 1999/00 to less than Rs. 7
billion (1.5%) in 2002/03       State's own revenues increased by 20% in real
and estimated Rs. 6.7 billion   terms in 2004-05, accounting for 45% of the
in 2003/04 (1.4%); overall      correction in primary balance. Central tax
fiscal deficit reduced from     devolution and grants accounted for 27% while
9.7% of GSDP in 1999/00 to      expenditure contraction accounted for the
8.3% in 2003/04                 remaining 28%.

                          Objective: to improve the composition of public spending towards priority sectors
Reduce the ratio of salaries    The ratio of salaries to state's own revenues has       Reduce the ratio of salaries to the state's own
to state's own revenues from    declined below 80% in 2004/05 (over-fulfilled the       revenue further to 96% in 2004/05.
over 160% in 1998/99 and        target of 96%), largely due to rapid revenue growth
1999/00 to an estimated 99%     and also due to a tight recruitment policy and some
in 2003/04; and the ratio of    redeployment of surplus staff.
salary plus pension to state's
own revenue plus mandated       The ratio of revenue balance to revenue receipts        Continue to decrease the ratio of revenue
transfers from 110% in          has fallen from -15.1% in 2003-04 to - 5.4% in          balance to revenue receipts to below -18% in
1999/00 to an estimated 72%     2004/05 (over-fulfilled target of -18%).                2004/05.
in 2003/04.
                                The consolidated debt to revenue receipts ratio has     Reduce the ratio of consolidated debt to
                                fallen from 335% in 2003/04 to 293% in 2004/05          revenue receipts from an estimated 354% in
                                (over-fulfilling target of 344%).                       2003/04 to 344% in 2004/05.




      7 These actions were not supported by OSEDL I, but they were included in GoO socio-economic development program.



                                                                          13

                  III. PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY
                                       Objective: to improve budget formulation and execution

Progress in prioritization of   Actual resource realization for the state's Annual     Annual Plan 2004-05 to aim at enhancing
public spending through the     Plan exceeded the target in 2004-05, along with        development outcomes, with a smaller but
implementation of the           significantly less than targeted accumulation of       fully funded State Plan, improved utilization
findings of Zero-Based          additional debt.                                       of centrally financed and co-financed schemes
Investment Reviews,                                                                    and with emphasis on quality and
including closure of 83         Utilization of centrally financed and co-financed      effectiveness of expenditure.
schemes and completion of       schemes has risen from US$ 330 million in
41 selected high-priority       2003/04 to US$ 620 million in 2004-05, through
infrastructure investment       improved cash management.
schemes during 2002/03 and
2003/04.                        Against the target of 25 major infrastructure
                                projects identified, 18 were completed in 2004/05,
                                which is in addition to the completion of 24
                                projects in 2003-04 and 17 in 2002-03. A further 11
                                identified projects have been completed so far in
                                2005-06.

                             Objective: to improve public financial accountability and reduce corruption

Government approval of a        The MTFP approved in August 2004, the 2005/06          Begin implementation of Action Plan to
Development Action Plan to      budget and updated summarized accounting               strengthen public financial accountability,
strengthen the system of        information have been published on Government          including enhancing financial information
financial accountability in     Website. Budget at a Glance, 2005/06, provides         published in budget documents; Anti-
the state, based on the         enhanced levels of information on the state of         corruption action plan, covering measures to
findings of a State Financial   Orissa's finances, including the size and costs of     strengthen prevention, enforcement and
Accountability Assessment;      establishment, details of debt and contingent          public awareness to be finalized by GoO.
issue Government Order to       liabilities.
post on the website tenders
and bid documents for works     The State has not resorted to overdraft or short-
costing in excess of Rs. 5      term advances from RBI during the year, for the
million, stipulate maximum      first time in 22 years.
time for scrutiny of tenders,
and provide incentives for      Prosecution of a number of senior officers and
timely completion of works.     wealthy tax evaders for corruption has received
                                wide publicity in the local media, has had
                                significant impact on tax compliance and revenue
                                collection in 2004-05.

Objective: Streamline state govt. by eliminating obsolete or unnecessary functions, and improve efficiency and effectiveness of govt.


Initiate implementation of      The salary bill for temporary staff has been reduced   Continue implementation of civil service
civil service reform by: (i)    further from an estimated US$ 7 million in 2003/04     reform by: i) Piloting a Human Resource
separation of at least 10% of   to an estimated US$ 4 million in 2004/05.              Management Information System in
36,000 temp/casual staff (ii)                                                          Education department; (ii) further reduction
freeze in recruitment, with     75% of vacant regular posts at entry level             of salary bill for temporary workers over
exceptions for demonstrated     abolished (14388 positions).                           02/03 and 03/04 figures; (iii) 75% of vacant
needs in socially-essential                                                            regular posts at entry level identified and
areas; and (iii) redeployment   3378 employees have been redeployed (of these          eliminated (except for freeze exempted posts);
of 1200 regular employees       1776 are teachers who have been redeployed within      and (iv) maintenance of recruitment freeze
from surplus to deficient       their own department)                                  with selected exceptions.
departments/functions.




                                                                          14

                                                   IV. HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
                                       Objective: Improve quality of and access to education

Issue Government Order to         There has been a freeze on the number of higher      Finalize reorganization action plan along the
release grants-in-aid only on     educational institutions receiving such grants;      lines of the Organizational Review of the
the basis of certification that   while aid has been discontinued in the case of 21    Department of Education and implement its
the school/college qualifies.     high schools where not a single student has          first phase, including abolition of non-
                                  passed in the last three years. Institutions that    essential administrative posts and
                                  became eligible for grants post-1994 are now         redeployment of qualified staff to head
                                  receiving block grants not linked to the salary      teacher posts.
                                  bill.

                                  A high level Task Force formed by the
                                  department has finalized the plan for
                                  reorganization at the state and sub-district levels;
                                  the final draft is yet to be approved by
                                  Government.

                                      Objective: Improve quality of and access to health care

Government approval and           GoO has taken a number of steps identified by        Implement first phase of reorganization of the
publication of a Health Sector    the Organizational Review conducted in 2003-         Department of Health, along the lines of
Strategy that identifies priority 04, including: the abolition of some departmental    Organizational Review. Progress in
health outcomes; approval of a    posts, conversion of paramedical staff to district   implementing the drug management policy.
Drug Management Policy for        cadres, and posting of Indian Systems doctors to
improving procurement of          single doctor primary health care centers on a
drugs on the essential drugs list pilot basis, in order to mitigate the short supply
and for framing of standard       of doctors in rural areas. A centralized drug
treatment guidelines.             procurement system is in place and operational,
                                  an essential drug list has been compiled, and a
                                  computerized drug inventory management
                                  system is up and running.

                                  Number of institutional deliveries has increased
                                  from 32.7% in 2002/03 to an estimated 35.9% in
                                  2004/05




                                                                           15

Annex II: Fiscal Summary




                                       Fiscal Summary: 1999/2000-2004/05
Per cent GSDP                          1999/00     2000/01      2001/02    2002/03    2003/04   2003/04        2004/05    2004/05
                                        Actuals    Actuals      Actuals     Actuals  Actuals/a   MTFP          Actuals/a   MTFP
Revenue                                   15.2%       17.8%        16.3%      18.7%      17.5%    19.6%            20.2%     20.3%
   State's own revenue                      6.3%       7.4%         7.3%       8.8%       8.2%      9.0%            9.2%      9.2%
   Central resources                        9.0%      10.4%         9.0%       9.9%       9.4%    10.6%           11.0%      11.1%
Non-interest expenditure                  21.7%       20.5%       18.9%       20.2%     16.8%     21.0%           17.5%      20.7%
   Current Expenditure excl interest      18.7%       16.9%       16.3%       17.3%      14.9%    17.4%            15.7%     17.6%
      o/w salary bill                     10.1%        9.8%         8.4%        9.4%      7.3%      9.0%            7.3%      8.9%
      o/w pension                           1.8%       2.1%         2.3%       2.8%       2.2%      2.6%            2.2%      2.7%
Capital Outlay                              2.1%       2.2%         2.0%       2.4%       1.6%      2.7%            1.8%      2.7%
Net Lending                                 1.0%        1.4%        0.6%       0.4%       0.4%      0.9%          -0.02%     0.33%
Primary Balance                            -6.5%       -2.7%       -2.6%       -1.5%      0.7%     -1.4%            2.7%     -0.4%
Interest Payments                           3.2%        5.9%        6.5%       6.6%       5.3%      6.9%            5.8%      6.8%
Overall balance                            -9.7%       -8.6%       -9.2%       -8.0%     -4.6%   -8.37%            -3.1%     -7.1%
Memo items:
Salary/ Own revenue                        161%        133%        115%        106%        89%    99.3%              79%       96%
Interest/ Revenue                         21.0%       33.1%       40.2%       35.1%      30.3%    35.3%            28.6%     33.3%
Salary/ Rev. Exp (net of interest &
pension)                                  59.5%       66.6%        60.1%      64.3%      57.0%    60.8%            53.8%     59.6%
Current (Revenue) Balance/GSDP             -6.7%       -5.0%       -6.5%       -5.2%     -2.6%     -4.7%           -1.3%     -4.1%
Current balance/Revenue Receipts          -43.7%     -27.9%       -40.1%     -28.0%     -15.1%   -23.9%            -6.4%    -20.1%
Outstanding Debt/Revenue Receipts          311%        307%        343%        338%      335%      354%            293%      344%
Outstanding Debt/GSDP                       47%         55%         56%         63%     58.8%       69%           59.1%        72%

GSDP (Rupees Billion)                     386.29      387.28      432.93     439.74     538.30    466.12          576.38    501.08


 a/ Actual figures have been adjusted to exclude impact of one-time shocks, including securitization of power sector
    liabilities in 2003-04; and one-time receipt of interest, dividend and loan recovery from power utilities in 2004-05.




                                                                  16

Annex III: Power Sector Performance

                                  Table 1: Financial Performance of the Power Sector
                                                   EBID                                  Net Profit
                                      Rs. Bn.              % GSDP               Rs. Bn.             % GSDP
                 1996/97                -0.96                -0.36%               -2.95               -1.11%
                 1997/98                -1.05                -0.33%               -3.19               -0.99%
                 1998/99                -2.29                -0.64%               -5.79               -1.63%
                 1999/00                -0.27                -0.07%               -5.24               -1.36%
                 2000/01                0.34                 0.09%                -5.83               -1.50%
                 2001/02                1.43                 0.33%                -5.24               -1.21%
                 2002/03                -4.22                -0.95%              -11.58               -2.63%
                 2003/04                8.06                 1.50%                0.02                 0.0%
                 2004/05                7.65                 1.33%                0.17                 0.3%
        Notes: EBID is Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation. All figures are for Transmission and
        Distribution only. Source: Estimates provided by Gridco and Distribution companies




                                         Table 2: Efficiency of the Energy Sector
                                                             2000-01   2001-02     2002-03   2003-04      2004-05
  Collection efficiency                                      77%       74%         80%       85%          90%
  Transmission and distribution (T&D) Loss                   47%       50%         44%       44%          41%
  Aggregate Technical & Commercial (AT&C) Loss               59%       63%         55%       52%          47%
Source: Gridco and Distribution companies
Note: Collection Efficiency=Collections/Current Billing




                                               Table 3: Collection Efficiency
                                          Government Departments           Municipalities/Notified          Combined
                                                                          Area Committees (NACs)
                                           FY2004            FY2005        FY2004         FY2005        FY2004    FY2005
 CESCO                                       n.a.             66%            n.a.           41%           n.a.      62%
 NESCO                                       93%              94%            47%            52%           85%       84%
 SOUTHCO                                     88%              106%           46%            96%           84%      104%
 WESCO                                      106%              99%            60%            35%          100%       86%
 Average for 3 Private Discoms               96%              100%           52%            56%           90%       92%
 (Nesco, Southco, Wesco)
 Average for all Discoms                     n.a.             81%            n.a.           49%           n.a.      76%
Note: Collection Efficiency=Collections/Current Billing (excl Delayed Payment Surcharge, DPS) except in case of CESCO where
current billing includes DPS also.




                                                                17

