              Public Information Document of the Orissa Economic Revival Credit/Loan

Report No.                         26550 - IN
Project Name                       Orissa Economic Revival Credit/Loan
Region                             South Asia Region
Sector                             Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                         P081882
Borrower (s)                       Government of India (GoI)
Beneficiary                        State of Orissa
Implementing Agency                Government of Orissa
Contact Person                     Mr. P. K. Mishra, Special Secretary Finance, Govt. of Orissa.
Date PID Prepared                  September 19, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date           September 30 ­ October 10, 2003
Projected Board Date               June 10, 2004

Country and Sector Background:
India is expected to register growth of around 6% in the fiscal year 2003/04, slightly above the average
achieved over the last decade. After slow and uneven growth (4.8%) last year due to a bad drought,
growth has picked up with a better monsoon this year, even higher export growth (18% for last year),
higher import growth, and further signs of an industrial recovery. Reforms continue at a slow and
unsteady pace. Fiscal consolidation remains as elusive as ever, and the debt/GSDP ratio continues to
increase. Despite this, interest rates (real and nominal) on government debt are at all time lows. Inflation
has increased somewhat but remains under control at around 5%. The current account has been in surplus
for the last two years, and looks to stay there on the back of strong remittances and exports of services
(especially but not only IT). Reserves are US$84 billion or 20 months of imports (July 2003). The capital
account remains largely closed, and external debt is low and declining. India's underlying growth trend
remains around 6-6.5%, satisfactory for countries at higher per capita income levels but insufficient for
India to accelerate poverty reduction. Accelerating growth beyond 6.5% will require a more aggressive
reform effort by the government to remove the obstacles that constrain India's growth potential. Many of
the reforms required to accelerate India's growth and reduce poverty need are in the domain of the states,
as articulated by India's Ninth Plan. The states also make up half of the consolidated fiscal deficit, and
thus fiscal reform at the state level is key.

The State of Orissa Located on India's east coast, between West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, Orissa
comprises 4.7% of India's land mass, 3.7% of the population and over 5% of India's poor. It is today the
poorest of India's 14 major states, despite its rich endowment of mineral wealth, forests, lakes, rivers, a
long coastline, and a rich and ancient history with vast untapped potential for both cultural and eco-
tourism. With a population of 35 million, almost half of whom are below the official poverty line, annual
per capita income in the state (about US$250) is the same as in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh 15 years
ago, and Uttar Pradesh almost 10 years ago. About 85% of the population are in rural areas. Regional
disparity is marked, with a relatively well-off coastal area, having historically benefited more from trade
and public investment, and an extremely poor and isolated interior, populated largely by tribal forest
dwellers. The Scheduled Tribes (STs) constitute 22% of the total population in Orissa (compared to 8%
in India) and 40% of the poor in the state.

Following a fiscal crisis in the late 1990s, Orissa is now establishing a track record of reform. This
extends beyond the fiscal domain into key sectoral policies. Orissa is well-known for the significant
progress in power sector reform. It is also a leader in public enterprise reform, with significant closures
and sales. And the state is moving to bring the private sector in to develop desperately needed
infrastructure, including in ports, to enable Orissa at least to exploit its coastal position.

Project's Objectives and Description
The objective of the proposed programmatic Orissa Economic Revival Loan (OERL) is to support
implementation of critical economic, fiscal and administrative reforms needed to revive economic growth
and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the medium term.            The easing of fiscal constraints and
improvements in systems of service delivery will, among other things enable Orissa to effectively utilize
additional project assistance in key sectors in future years. OERL is a single-tranche loan/credit, based on
upfront actions to support Orissa's reform program, and is anchored in the Government's medium-term
fiscal framework.


The proposed Operation starts the fourth World Bank sub-national lending program in support of fiscal,
governance and structural reforms by states of India, following operations in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,
and Uttar Pradesh. It is the first in a proposed series of such operations during 2003-08 to support the
medium-term program for economic revival by the Government of Orissa, India's poorest state with 35
million population.    The Government of Orissa is moving away from a public sector dominated
development process towards a private-sector centered economic growth strategy and public-private
partnership for sustainable development. The paradigm shift supported by these operations -- from public
sector dominated to private sector-led economic growth with improved public sector management ­ is
aimed at lifting Orissa from fiscal crisis, and economic stagnation, with little progress against its massive
poverty (47% poverty headcount) -- to a path of sustained economic growth, fiscal sustainability and
improved governance over the medium-term.


GoO's reform program includes: (a) growth-enabling reforms to enhance the business environment for
private sector enterprises and encourage infrastructure development (b) fiscal reforms aimed at
establishing a medium-term transparent and sustainable fiscal framework and improving the equity,
efficiency, and composition of public spending; (c) governance and administrative reforms to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of public administration and enhance service delivery; and (d) poverty and
human development monitoring and evaluation. Measures to improve revenue mobilization, public
expenditure management and financial accountability should reduce waste and the state's dependence on
debt financing, while increasing fiscal space and the efficiency with which public resources are utilized in
furthering the state's economic and social development. Improvements in governance and administrative
effectiveness combined with growth-enabling structural reforms should lead to increased private
investment and more rapid poverty reduction over time.

Rationale of Bank's Involvement
A focus on reforming state is an important part of the India Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
was discussed by the Board in April 2001. The India CAS highlights support for states that: (i) have
chosen to embark on a comprehensive program of reforms; (ii) expressed interest in entering into a
partnership with the Bank; and (iii) have relatively high poverty. The thrust of the Bank's assistance to
these states is to support through adjustment lending a comprehensive program of fiscal, governance, and
growth-promoting reforms, combined with institutional reforms and targeted investment interventions in
sectors critical to growth and poverty reduction, such as power, irrigation, forestry, health, education and
selected anti-poverty programs. All three strategic principles are applicable to the proposed Operation.
Orissa has embarked on a comprehensive medium-term reform program. The Bank has also had a
partnership with DFID in Orissa, which is one of the latter's partner states in India. The additional
financing which the Bank can provide will help ensure that high-priority expenditures are protected rather
than crowded out at a time of fiscal stress. It also provides financial backing for the state's reform
program and contributes to Orissa's effort to reduce its interest burden and free up resources for
development.

To ensure transparency, a common criteria and equal access for all states, GOI has recently issued a set of
guidelines on structural adjustment lending (SAL).1 Finalized in December 2002, these guidelines
emphasize that any state seeking SAL assistance should have a multi-year reform program for sustainable
poverty reduction that:

· Aims at generating primary and revenue surplus and limiting consolidated fiscal deficit to less than 3
     percent over a medium-term (3-5 years);
· Includes a program for subsidy elimination and a sustainable program for power sector subsidy
     elimination or containment;
· Reforms civil services including reduction in administrative costs of governance; and
· Reforms public sector enterprises including disinvestments.

The Guidelines also state that "An overall focus on poverty reduction and sector specific parameters
(infrastructure, education, etc.), which are ingredients of MDGs, should also be reflected in the action
program of the SAL." The proposed operation is consistent with the new guidelines on adjustment
support for states prepared by the GOI.


Financing
Total:             US$ 100 million equivalent.
IBRD:              US$ 50 million equivalent.
IDA:               US$ 50 million equivalent.

Implementation
The Chief Secretary of GoO will coordinate the overall program. The nodal agency for the fiscal and
public expenditure management reforms is the Finance Department. Administrative reforms are the
responsibility of the Administrative Reforms Cell under the General Administration Department. Under
the private sector development component, the Departments of Energy, Public Enterprises, Industry and
the Agriculture Production Commissioner have primary responsibility for the power sector, PE reforms,
industrial deregulation and agricultural policy reform components respectively.                        The Development
Commissioner is responsible for oversight of the Poverty Task Force.

Sustainability, Social Impact and Poverty Monitoring
Orissa's comprehensive reforms are initiated by a reform-minded government and developed through
active consultations with stakeholders. Orissa's strengths include a capable bureaucracy and good growth
potential. A credible track record in reforms has been established by the GoO.

Orissa's reforms are expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction through various channels.
Specifically:
     · Fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources on poverty-reduction related
          developmental expenditures.
     · Improved poverty monitoring will help the GoO better track poverty and adjust policies and
          programs accordingly.
     · Governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public services, and also help to reduce
          corruption, which tend to hurt the poor disproportionately.
     · Deregulation will help to improve the investment climate, especially for small and medium-sized
          enterprises, and thus improve rural growth to help generate non-farm employment, of benefit to
          the poor.


1"Structural Adjustment Assistance Facilities Guidelines," Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government
of India, December 2002.

    · Negative impacts on displaced workers through public enterprise reforms are being mitigated by
        severance packages and job market counseling services.

Environment
The only component of the operation that has potential environmental impact is the privatization/closure
of public enterprises, which is being supported by DFID under a parallel operation. The state Pollution
Control Board monitors adherence by all public and private sector units to all-India environmental
standards on an annual basis, and environmental audits to international standards have been carried out
for selected enterprises, with support from DFID.

Contact Points
Task Team Leaders: V.J. Ravishankar and Marina Wes
The World Bank

Marina Wes
Senior Economist
1818 H Street
Washington DC 20433
Tel: (202) 458 1390

V.J. Ravishankar
Senior Economist
70 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 110 003
Tel: (91) 11 461 7241

