Page  1
Public Information Document for the Orissa Socio
-
Economic Development Credit/Loan
Report No. 
29965
Project Name
Orissa Socio
-
Economic Development Credit/Loan
Region
South Asia Region
Sector
Pover
ty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                        
P081882
Borrower (s)
Government of India (GoI)
Beneficiary
State of Orissa
Implementing Agency
Government of Orissa
Contact Person
Dr. U. Sarat Chandran, Principa
l Secretary Finance, Govt. of Orissa.
Phone: +91 674 2536950
Date PID Prepared
September 19, 2003
Appraisal CompletionDate 
June 18, 2004
Projected Board Date
October 21, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background: 
India has made significant p
rogress in improving the living standards of its citizens since launching wide
-
ranging reforms in 1991, even though the pace of reform has been uneven.  Real GDP growth averaged 
5.8% during the 1990s, and poverty fell significantly, though the exact degree
 of decline is debated.  After 
slow and uneven growth in 2002/03, due in part to a bad drought resulting in negative agricultural growth, 
the growth performance in 2003/04 was excellent with an estimated growth rate of 8.2%.  This was driven 
by a good mons
oon, continued strong service sector performance, and further recovery in the industrial 
sector.  Medium
-
term growth prospects in India depend critically on the pace of structural reform and 
fiscal consolidation.  Sustaining an 8% economic growth rate will
 require an aggressive reform effort by 
all levels of government to encourage private investment. However, the persistence of high consolidated 
fiscal deficits of the central and state governments since the mid
-
1990s has prevented India’s growth 
potential 
from being fully realized.  Although at the center there are early signs that the 
fiscal and revenue 
deficits have fallen below their peak of 2001/02, and that the debt stock has stabilized, the combined 
fiscal deficits of the states remains high and debt 
and debt service continues to rise.
While India’s economic and social performance has been impressive on many accounts, it has also been 
uneven; the performance of India’s states is increasingly divergent. As much as 54% of the poor (around 
150 million pe
ople) now live in four states alone: Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. 
Following the liberalization of 1991, most of the middle and high
-
income states were able to take greater 
advantage  of  the  new  conditions,  because  of  better  initial  condi
tions,  governance,  infrastructure  and 
human resources than the poorer states. Both in the eighties and nineties, average real GDP per capita in 
the poorer states grew at around 2.5% annually; average real GDP growth per capita in the other states 
increased
 from 3.1% in the 1980s to 4.8% in the 1990s. As a result, per capita income in Orissa decreased 
from 74% of the national average in 1989/90 to 58% in 2001/2002.    
There is an increasing recognition of the importance of state reforms to solve India’s na
tional economic 
problems, including the large national fiscal deficit (where the states’ share is now close to one
-
half). 
More and more states are embracing reforms, and significant progress is being made in a number of 
important areas to strengthen the in
centives facing states to undertake fiscal reforms. A number of reform
-
linked facilities have been established, and hard
-
budget constraints have been improved in the power 
sector with improved payment mechanisms introduced for central suppliers.
Page  2
The Stat
e of Orissa
Located on India’s east coast, between West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, Orissa comprises 4.7% of 
India’s land mass, 3.7% of the population and over 5% of India’s poor.  It is today the poorest of India’s 
16 major states, despite its rich endow
ment of mineral wealth, forests, lakes, rivers, a long coastline, and a 
rich and ancient history with vast untapped potential for both cultural and eco
-
tourism.  With a population 
of 35 million, almost half of whom are below the official poverty line, annu
al per capita income in the 
state (about US$250) is the same as in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh 15 years ago, and Uttar Pradesh 
almost 10 years ago.  
About 85% of the population are in rural areas.  
Regional disparity is marked, with 
a relatively well
-
off 
coastal area, having historically benefited more from trade and public investment, 
and an extremely poor and isolated interior, populated largely by tribal forest dwellers.  The Scheduled 
Tribes (STs) constitute 22% of the total population in Orissa (compa
red to 8% in India) and 40% of the 
poor in the state. 
2. Project’s Objectives and Description
Orissa Socio
-
Economic Development Programme
Following a fiscal crisis in the late 1990s, Orissa is now establishing a track record of reform. The Orissa 
Socio
-
Economic  Development  Programme  supports  implementation  of  critical  economic,  fiscal  and 
administrative reforms needed to revive economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the 
medium term.  The easing of fiscal constraints and improvements in 
systems of service delivery will, 
among other things enable Orissa to effectively utilize additional project assistance in key sectors in 
future years.  The multi
-
pronged approach of GoO’s reform program includes:

 
economic  growth
-
enabling  reforms  covering
  agriculture  and  land  administration,  regulatory 
framework governing private enterprise, and privatization and restructuring of public enterprises; 

 
fiscal reforms aimed at improving the revenue system, saving on unproductive expenditures while 
increasing 
the quality of public spending in priority sectors and enhancing the effectiveness of 
public investment; 

 
measures to strengthen governance and administrative effectiveness, including in the areas of 
public  expenditure  management  and  financial  accountabili
ty,  public  procurement,  service 
delivery, and government organization; and 

 
investments in poverty monitoring and human development, including in education, health, and 
social protection.
Orissa Socio
-
Economic Development Credit/Loan
The objective of the p
roposed credit/loan is to support the first phase of the Orissa Socio
-
Economic 
Development  Program.  The  Orissa  Socio
-
Economic  Development  Credit/Loan  is  a  single
-
tranche 
Operation,  based  on  upfront  actions  to  support  Orissa’s  reform  program,  and  is  anchore
d  in  the 
Government’s medium
-
term fiscal framework. It is the first in a proposed series of such operations during 
2004
-
08 to support the medium
-
term development program of the Government of Orissa. 
Some  of  the  key  reforms  and  achievements  of  the  governme
nt  in  2003/04  include:  improved  fiscal 
outcomes; tabling in the State Legislature of a Medium Term Fiscal Reform Framework (MTFRF) during 
2003
-
08,  committing  to  a  substantial  fiscal  correction;  implementation  of  steps  to  improve  public 
procurement  and  stat
e  financial  accountability;  progress  with  public  enterprise  reform  including  the 
closure,  restructuring  and  privatization  of  a  number  of  enterprises  under  the  state’s  public  sector 
restructuring policy; implementation of the first set of administrative mea
sures to improve the business 
Page  3
environment, and government approval and publication of a health sector strategy identifying priority 
outcomes.
3. Rationale for Bank’s Involvement
Since 1997, the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India has
 included a focus on states 
undertaking comprehensive reforms, in order to support the leaders of change and to serve as a catalyst to 
the state
-
level reform process.  With the widening gulf of the reforming and non
-
reforming states in India, 
leading to a 
concentration of poverty and poor social indicators in a few states, the current India CAS 
[R2004
-
170] proposes to go as far as possible in opening up new opportunities for engagement with 
India’s poorest states, while retaining an essentially reform and p
erformance
-
based approach to the states. 
To  ensure  transparency,  a  common  criteria  and  equal  access  for  all  states,  GOI  has  issued  a  set  of 
guidelines  on  structural  adjustment  lending  (SAL).
1
  Finalized  in  December  2002,  these  guidelines 
emphasize that any
 state seeking SAL assistance should have a multi
-
year reform program for sustainable 
poverty reduction that:

 
Aims at generating primary and revenue surplus and limiting consolidated fiscal deficit to less than 3 
percent over a medium
-
term (3
-
5 years);

 
Inc
ludes  a  program  for  subsidy  elimination  and  a  sustainable  program  for  power  sector  subsidy 
elimination or containment;

 
Reforms civil services including reduction in administrative costs of governance; and

 
Reforms public sector enterprises including disinve
stments.
The Guidelines also state that “An overall focus on poverty reduction and sector specific parameters 
(infrastructure, education, etc.), which are ingredients of MDGs, should also be reflected in the action 
program  of  the  SAL.”  The  proposed  operati
on  is  consistent  with  the  new  guidelines  on  adjustment 
support for states prepared by the GOI.      
The additional financing that the Bank can provide through the proposed Credit/Loan will help ensure 
that high
-
priority expenditures are protected rather t
han crowded out at a time of fiscal stress.  It also 
provides financial backing for the state’s reform program and will enable Orissa to finance the direct costs 
of reforms as well as to substitute cheaper for costlier debt. The relatively concessional ter
ms of Bank 
assistance would enable Orissa to achieve a more rapid decline in its debt service burden than would 
otherwise be possible.
4. Financing
Total:
US$ 125 million equivalent.
IBRD:
US$ 85 million equivalent.
IDA:
US$ 40 million equivalent.
5.
 Implementation
The Chief Secretary of GoO coordinates the overall program. The nodal agency for the fiscal and public 
expenditure 
management 
reforms 
is 
the 
Finance 
Department. 
Administrative 
reforms 
are 
the 
responsibility of the Administrative Reforms Ce
ll under the General Administration Department. Under 
the private sector development component, the Departments of Energy, Public Enterprises, Industry and 
1
 “Structural Adjustment Assistance Facilities Guidelines,” Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government 
of India, December 2002.
Page  4
the Agriculture Production Commissioner have primary responsibility for the power sector, PE reforms
, 
industrial  deregulation  and  agricultural  policy  reform  components  respectively.    The  Development 
Commissioner is responsible for oversight of the Poverty Task Force. 
6. Sustainability, Social Impact and Poverty Monitoring
Orissa’s comprehensive reform
s are initiated by a reform
-
minded government and developed through 
active consultations with stakeholders. Orissa’s strengths include a capable bureaucracy and good growth 
potential. A track record in reforms is being established by the GoO. 
Orissa’s re
forms are expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction through various channels. 
Specifically:

 
Fiscal 
reforms 
will 
enable 
a 
greater 
share 
of 
resources 
on 
poverty
-
reduction 
related 
developmental expenditures.

 
Improved poverty monitoring will help
 the GoO better track poverty and adjust policies and 
programs accordingly.

 
Governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public services, and also help to reduce 
corruption, which tend to hurt the poor disproportionately.

 
Deregulation will help to im
prove the investment climate, especially for small and medium
-
sized 
enterprises, and thus improve rural growth to help generate non
-
farm employment, of benefit to 
the poor.

 
Negative impacts on displaced workers through public enterprise reforms are being m
itigated by 
severance packages and job market counseling services.
7. Environmental Aspects
The only component of the operation that has potential environmental impact is the privatization/closure 
of public enterprises, which is being supported by DFID u
nder a parallel operation.  T
he state Pollution 
Control Board monitors adherence by all public and private sector units to all
-
India environmental 
standards on an annual basis, and environmental audits to international standards have been carried out 
for s
elected enterprises, with support from DFID.
8. Contact Points
Task Team Leaders: 
Marina Wes
V.J. Ravishankar
The World Bank
The World Bank
Senior Economist
Senior Economist
1818 H Street
70 Lodi Estate
Washington DC 20433
New Del
hi 110 003
Tel: (202) 458 1390
Tel: (91) 11 461 7241
