                                                Documentof
                                             The World Bank


                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                                Report No. 26550-IN



       INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                                     AND

                    THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                     FOR

               A PROPOSEDLOANINTHE AMOUNT OFUS85 MILLION

                                                     AND

            A PROPOSEDCREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.4 MILLION
                                  (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                      TO

                                                    INDIA

            FORTHE ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                                            September28,2004




PovertyReductionand EconomicManagement
South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance o f their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          Currency unit:Rupees(Rs.) as of August 31,2004
                                         US$1 = Rs.46.30
                                        1billion= 100 crore

                                  GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR

                                        April 1-March31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A E S   American Electric Services                    NSS         National Sample Survey
AG      Auditor General                               NTPC         National Thermal Power Corporation
BJD     BijuJanata Dal                                O&M          Operations and Maintenance
BJP     Bhartiya Janata Party                         OERC         Orissa Electricity Regulatory
BPL     Below Poverty Line                                         Commission
BSES    Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply            OPGC         Orissa Power Generation Corporation
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                   OHPC         Orissa Hydro Power Corporation
CSPRO   Census and Survey Processing System           OSEDL        Orissa Socio-Economic Development
DES     Department o f Economics and Statistics                    Loan
DFID    UKDepartment for International                PHDMS        Poverty HumanDevelopment
        Development                                                Monitoring System
DSO     District Statistical Offices                  SGRY         The Sampooma Gramin Rojgar Yojana
FRBM    Fiscal Responsibility and Budget              UPA          UnitedProgressive Alliance
        Management                                    PDS          Public Distribution System
Go1     Government o f India                          PES          Public Enterprises
Go0     Government o f Orissa                         PHC          Primary Health Center
GRIDCO  GridCorporationo f Orissa                     PRIS         Panchayati Raj Institutions
GSDP    Gross State Domestic Product                  PTF          Poverty Task Force
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction         sc           Scheduled Caste
        and Development                               SFAA         State Financial Accountability
IDA     Intemational Development Association                       Assessment
IMF     International Monetary Fund                   ST           Scheduled Tribes
IPR     Industrial Policy Resolution                  TA           Technical Assistance
MDGs    MillenniumDevelopment Goals                   UPA          United Progressive Alliance
MDMP    Mid-Day Meal Program                          VAT          Value Added Tax
MoU     Memorandum o f Understanding                  VRS          Voluntary Retirement Scheme
MTFRF   Medium Term Fiscal Reform                     ZBI          Zero-Based Investment Review
        Framework
NCCDS   Nabakrushna Choudhury Center for
        Development Studies




           Vice President                 :    PrafUl Patel, SARVP
            CountryDirector               :    Michael F. Carter, SACIN
            Sector Director               :    Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
            SectorManagers                :    Kapil Kapoor, SASPR
            TaskManagers                  :    V.J. Ravishankar and Marina Wes, SASPR

                                                                                          FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                      INDIA

                                 ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CREDITLOAN


                                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

                  I. THESETTING                .................................................................................................................      1
                    A.     Background.........................................................................................................................        1
                    B. Recent Economic DevelopmentsinIndia...........................................................................                                 2
                    C.     Incentives for State-Level Reforms .................................................................................... 3

                  11.      ORISSA: DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REFORMPROGRAM                                                                               .............4
                    A.     Development Challenges ....................................................................................................                4
                    B. The Govemment's Strategy to Accelerate Growth andReduce Poverty............................                                                    8

                  111.     ORISSA'SREFORMPROGRAMFOR SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.. 9
                    A.     Growth-Enhancing Reforms............................................................................................... 9
                    B. Fiscal Reforms....................................................                                                                          .I4
                    C.     Govemance and Administrative Reforms                                                                           ........................  17
                    D. Human Development and Poverty monitoringandevaluation.........................................                                               23

                  IV.      THE PROPOSEDCREDITLOAN                               ..............................................................................      27
                    A .    Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for Adjustment Lending ..............................                                          27
                    B .    Loan Objective, Size, Design and Impact.........................................................................                         28
                    C.     Prior Actions for the First and Second Operations                                                                                       .30
                    D. Arrangements for Performance Monitoring .....................................................................                                30
                     E.    Benefits and Risks ......................................................................................



                                A. Govemment o f Orissa's Letter o f Development Policy
                                B. Program Policy Matrix
                                C. Medium-Term Fiscal Framework and Bank's Explanatory Note
                                D. Monitorable ProgramIndicators
                                E. Poverty inOrissa
                                F. Technical Assistance for Capacity Building
                                G. Public InformationNotice (IMF)
                                H. StatisticalAnnex
                  Map

                                                                             Task Team
                  Task Team Leaders: V.J. Ravisliankar (Senior Econoniist, SASPR) and Marina Wes (Senior Econoniist. SASPR);Peer
                  Reviebters:,Vfartin G. Rama (Lead Economist, E,4SPR) atid Richard Allen (Lead Public Sector Specialist, MNSED);
                  Team .Members: ModripeA. Adebowale (Senior Finance Oflcer, LOAG?),Syed I.Ahmed (Senior Counsel, LEGMS),
                  Asya Akhlaqire (Senior Private Sector Development Specialist, SASFP), Sliellka Arora (Legal Assistant. SARIM),
                  Ananya Basu (Senior Economist. SASPR H. Bhawani (Progrant Assistant. SACJN), Pooja Churamani (Research
                                                             ,
                  Anal?st, SASPR), Elrna Glinskaya (Senior Economist, SASPR), Peter F. Heywood (Lead Health Specialist, SASHD),
                  Stephen Howes (SASPR), Nalin Jena (Operations Officer. SASHD), Chingboon Lee (Lead Education Specialist.
                  SASHD), Vikram Merrori (PublicSector Management Specialist, SASPR), Rohit Mittal (Financial Analyst. SASEJ),
                  Mohan Nagarajan (Senior Economist. SASPR),Madliavi M. Pillai (Senior Natirral ResourcesManagement Specialist.
                  SASAR).Jriditli Plummer (Senior Financial Analyst. SASEI), Vinod Saghal (Lead Financial Management Specialist,
                  SARFM), Shiinalini Sarkar (Program Assistant, DECVPj, Rajesh Sinha (Senior Financial Analyst, SASEI), Rita Soni
                  (Program AssistantSASPR), Jyoti Sriram (Program Assistant. SASPR). Samriel Thangaraj (Senior Social Development
                  Specialist, SASES), Lipasana Varma (Research Analysi, SASPR); Mrrkrrl Asker (Consultant. Tax and Pensions Reforrns),
                  Natarajan Raman (Consirltant,Procurement), SalvatoreSchiavo-Campo (Consultant, Public Sector Management), P.
                  Sundaram (Comultatil, Civil Service Reform).


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may n o t be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                         INDIA
              Orissa Socio-Economic Development ProgramCreditnoan

                              Credit and LoanSummary

Borrower:                  Government o f India (GoI)
ImplementingAgency:        Government o f Orissa (GOO)
Beneficiaries:             State o f Orissa (population: 35 million)

Amount:                    US$40 million IDA and US$S5 million IBRD
Terms:                     The IBRD loan will be payable in 20 years, including 5 year o f
                           grace and annuity principal repayment, at six-month LBOR for
                           USD plus variable spread for variable rate single currency loan.
                           The IDA credit will be on standard terms with 35-year maturity
                           and IO-year grace period.

Description:               The proposed Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loadcredit
                            (OSEDL-I) would be the first in a proposed series over the next
                            five years to support the medium-term program for socio-
                            economic development o f Orissa, the poorest and perhaps most
                            fiscally stressed o f India's major states, located on its east coast
                           between West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.
                           Following a fiscal crisis in 1999, the State has in recent years
                            implemented a number o f measures to significantly reduce the
                           primary fiscal deficit and has established a track record o f
                           reform, which extends beyond the fiscal domain into sectoral
                           policies. The multi-pronged approach o f GOO'Sreform program


                                         economic       growth-enabling     reforms     covering
                                         agriculture    and land administration,      regulatory
                                         framework      governing    private   enterprise,   and
                                         privatization and restructuringo fpublic enterprises;

                                         fiscal reforms aimed at improving the revenue
                                         system, saving on unproductive expenditures while
                                         increasing the quality o f public spending in priority
                                         sectors and enhancing the effectiveness o f public
                                         investment;

                                         measures       to   strengthen      governance      and
                                         administrative effectiveness, including in the areas
                                         o f public expenditure management and financial
                                         accountability, public procurement, service delivery,
                                         and government organization; and

                                         investments in poverty monitoring and human
                                         development, including in education, health, and
                                         social protection.

                            Measures to improve revenue mobilization, public expenditure
                            management and financial accountability should reduce waste

                      and the state's dependence on debt financing, while increasing
                      fiscal space for development expenditures along with their
                      efficiency. Improvements in governance and administrative
                      effectiveness combined with growth-enabling structural reforms
                      should lead over time to increased private investment and
                      expanded access to improved basic services, particularly for the
                      poor. These are complemented by reform-linked assistance from
                      Government o f India (GoI), and concessional donor financing to
                      support the state's development.

Benefits:             The proposed operation, consistent with CAS objectives, aims to
                      stabilize the fiscal situation and introduce growth-enabling
                      reforms in the poorest o f India's major states, reinforcing recent
                      initiatives by Government o f India to accelerate economic
                      growth and improve public service delivery to reduce poverty.
                      Expected benefits include: (a) more rapid economic growth, (b)
                      improved fiscal performance and contribution to reduction o f
                      public sector borrowing in India; and (c) enhanced quality o f
                      governance and service delivery.

Risks& Mitigation:    The     Orissa    program    entails    significant     risks.  First,
                      implementation o f the reform program may be slower than
                      planned because o f institutional capacity constraints. Second,
                      opposition by powerful affected interests could slow down the
                      pace o f reform. Third, non-adherence to the targets set in the
                      Medium-TermFiscal Reform Framework (MTFRF) could derail
                      Orissa's adjustment path.
                      Several factors contribute to a mitigation o f these risks.      The
                      Government has already implemented important up-front
                      actions, laying the foundation for subsequent reforms. Starting
                      in 2001, the Government began to consult extensively with
                      various stakeholders, and awareness o f the necessity for fiscal
                      and economic reforms and their anticipated outcomes has
                      improved. Elections for the Orissa Legislature, which were due
                      in Spring 2005, were advanced by one year and have returned
                      the same alliance and Chief Minister to power, with a renewed
                      and strengthened mandate. Fairly broad ownership o f key
                      objectives has been built among senior political leaders,
                      bureaucrats and civil society. Careful consideration has also been
                      given in the design o f the reform program to broaden public
                      support, including in the areas o f public enterprise reform and
                      civil service reform.
                      To help alleviate capacity constraints, and in close cooperation
                      with other donors,       particularly the UK Department o f
                      International Development (DFID), the Bank i s trying to ensure
                      that significant technical assistance i s available to follow through
                      on the reform measures supported by the proposed operation.
                      Close attention i s also being paid to sequencing reforms in the
                      context o f a medium-term programmatic framework, so as to try
                      to avoid an overloaded agenda which would excessively strain
                      implementation capacity at a particular point in time and/or risk

                         a breakdown o f the consensual reform momentum that has been
                         built.
Scheduleof Disbursement: The loadcredit would be disbursed in one tranche in an amount
                         equivalent to US$l25 million upon effectiveness. The program
                         is designed so that all key actions have been taken prior to the
                         Board Presentation of the credit/loan. Satisfactory outcomes
                         against agreed milestones will be a prior condition for
                         subsequent credits/loans inthe proposed series.

Project IDnumber         IN-PO81882


 PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA PROPOSEDCREDITLOANTO INDIA FORTHE ORISSA
                              SOCIO-ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


1.       This document constitutes the Program Document on a proposed creditiloan to India for an
equivalent amount o f US$l25 million (US$40 million IDA equivalent and US$85 million BRD) to
support the first phase o f the comprehensive medium-term reform program o f Government o f Orissa
(described in Annex A'). This Program Document should be read in conjunction with the India Country
Assistance Strategy [R2004-170, discussed at the Board on August 26, 20041.                           The India Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) highlights support for reforming states as one o f the central thrusts o f the
Bank's strategy in India. It emphasizes, inparticular, the importance o f efforts to assist reform initiatives
inIndia's poorest states, including Orissa.

                                                 I. THESETTING

A.       Background

2.       Located on India's east coast, betweenWest Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, Orissa comprises 4.7%
o f India's land mass, 3.7% o f the population and over 5% o f India's poor. Despite its rich endowment o f
mineral wealth, forests, lakes, rivers, and a long coastline, Orissa remains the poorest, and perhaps the
most fiscally-stressed, of India's 14major states, and growth performance lags the all-India average. The
Biju Janata Dal (BJD), an ally o f the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), was elected in early 2000, and re-
elected inM a y 2004 for a second term that extends untilM a y 2009.
3.       The present government took office in 2000 at a time o f severe fiscal crisis caused by over-
expansion o f government and public enterprise in the past, with low returns and financed partly by high-
cost debt from Government o f India (GoI). The crisis had been aggravated by the unaffordable pay hike
awarded to government employees in line with the central FifthPay Commission award o f 1997 and the
supercyclone o f 1999. Like in many other Indian states, the fiscal crisis acted to galvanize the reform
momentum in Orissa. The Government o f Orissa (GOO)has designed a comprehensive reform program
for the socio-economic development o f Orissa; it has implemented the initial phase, consisting o f growth-
enabling, fiscal and governance reforms; and it has put in place institutional mechanisms to further
develop and deepen the reforms and broaden the agenda through 2007/08.2
4.       During the past few years, the record o f implementation o f the initial stage o f fiscal and
administrative reforms, the rescuing o f the power sector reform and the first steps in growth-enabling
reforms, became progressively stronger and i s now persuasive. The same i s true o f political commitment
from the highest level, as evidenced by the following:
              Tabling in the State Legislature o f a Medium Term Fiscal R e f o m Framework (MTFRF)
              during2003-08, committing to a substantial fiscal correction;
              Measures to reduce the primary fiscal deficit from 6.5% o f Gross State Domestic Product
              (GSDP) in 1999/00 to an estimated 1.4%in2003/04;
              Initiation o f broad consultations with civil society about the need for fiscal reforms and the
              rationale for the public enterprise and administrative reform;
              Measures to grapple with second generation reforms in the power sector, after mixed success
              with privatization o f distributionin 1999 (explainedinparas. 40 to 50 below);



'Annex  A shouldbereadin conjunctionwith the Medium TermFiscalFramework, which was tabled in the State Legislaturein
August 2004, and is presentedin Annex C.
 The Indian fiscal year runs from April 1'' to March 31"; 2003/04refers to the year ending on March 31,2004.

        0   Cabinet approval o f a Health Sector Strategy based on identification o f priority outcomes and
            effective public-private partnership;

        0   Implementation o f two zero-based investment reviews, entailing substantial reallocation from
            low-priority to more efficient and pro-poor projects, and speedier completion o f such
            projects;

        0   Adoption and implementation o f Industrial Policy Resolution-200 1, including adoption o f
            measures to improve the labor inspection regime and the introduction o f transparent and
            standard rates for the allotment o f land;

        0   Progress with the public enterprise reform program, entailing closure o f 10 unviable
            enterprises and initiation o fprivatizationo f 10units; and

        0   Initiation o f redeployment and phasing out o f redundant employees in the government
            workforce, including exit by over 3,500 non-regular employees.
5.      The Bank has had a long-standing engagement with Orissa and a targeted dialogue on major
administrative and fiscal reforms began in2001. To help underpin continued progress, both G o 0 and Go1
have requested the Bank to provide support for Orissa's Socio-Economic Development Program, in the
form o f programmatic structural adjustment lending. This Document explains the reform program o f
G o 0 and proposes Bank support, commensurate to the reformprocess and sequenced appropriately so as
to manage the risks involved. Following a background section including a discussion o f the national
context for state reforms, section I1provides a snapshot o f Orissa, outlining progress in development and
main challenges. Section I11reports on the proposed medium-term reform program, to be supported by
the proposed series o f Onssa Socio-Economic Development Loans (OSEDLs).                  The final section
discusses the Bank's assistance program inOrissa, and deals with project implementation and monitoring
issues.

B.      RecentEconomicDevelopmentsinIndia

6       Orissa's development challenge needs to be viewed within the context o f the country as a whole.
India has made significant progress in improving the living standards o f its citizens since launching wide-
ranging economic reforms in 1991, even though the pace o f reform has been uneven. Real GDP growth
averaged 5.8% during the 1990s, and poverty fell significantly, though the exact degree o f decline i s
debated. After slow and uneven growth in 2002/03, due in part to a bad drought resulting in negative
agricultural growth, the growth performance in 2003/04 was excellent with an estimated growth rate o f
8.2%. This was dnven by a good monsoon, continued strong service sector performance, and further
recovery inthe industrial sector. Medium-term growth prospects in India depend critically on the pace of
structural reform and fiscal consolidation.      Sustaining an 8% economic growth rate will require an
aggressive reform effort by all levels o f government to encourage private investment.
7.      However, the persistence o f high consolidated fiscal deficits o f the central and state governments
since the mid-1990s has prevented India's growth potential from being fully realized. These fiscal
deficits have been largely financed by borrowings, with a strategic shift towards long-term rupee debt
after the 1991 crisis. General government debt rose from 58% o f GDP at end-March 1986 to an estimated
86% o f GDP at end-March 2004. Debt servicing has begun to pre-empt a large a share o f public
resources, leaving too little room for developmental expenditure, especially in the poorer states. India's
vulnerability to an external crisis i s presently limited by its large reserves, equivalent to 15 months o f
imports, and its low level o f external public debt. (See Annex H).
8.      At the Center there are early signs that the fiscal andrevenue deficits have fallen below their peak
o f 2001/02, and that central debt i s stabilizing. Estimates indicate a central government fiscal deficit o f
4.5% o f GDP for 2003/04, significantly lower than the budgeted number o f 5.6%. The passage o f the
Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, which mandates elimination o f the current
account deficit o f the central government by March 31, 2008, i s an encouraging development.

                                                       2

Nevertheless, the combined fiscal deficit o f the states has stayed between 4-5% o f GDP; and the revenue
deficit between 2.5-3%. Although the combined states' primary deficit has been on a declining path since
2000, debt and debt service continues to rise, especially inIndia's poorer states.

9.       While India's economic and social performance has been impressive on many accounts, it has
also been uneven; the performance o f India's states i s increasingly divergent. As much as 54% o f the poor
(around 150 million people) now live in four states alone: Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and
Orissa. Following the liberalization of 1991, most o f the middle and high-income states were able to take
greater advantage of the new conditions, because o f better initial conditions, governance, infrastructure
and human resources than the poorer states. Bothinthe eighties and nineties, average real GDP per capita
inthe poorer states grew at around 2.5% annually; average real GDP growth per capita inthe other states
increased from 3.1% inthe 1980s to 4.8% inthe 1990s. As a result, per capita income in Orissa decreased
from 74% o f the national average in 1989/90 to 58% in2001/02.

10.      Recent political developments. The national elections o f April 2004 brought a new coalition to
office, committed to continue with economic reforms with greater emphasis on rural livelihoods, social
safety nets and rural development. This `United Progressive Alliance' (UPA) i s led by the Congress
Party and relies on leftist support in the Parliament. It has agreed on a National Common Minimum
Program, which retains the broadly liberal economic policy thrust o f the last decade but with a
strengthened emphasis on social programs and benefits to low income groups, especially in rural areas.
The maiden budget of the UPA Government, presented on July 8*, 2004, signals reasonable fiscal
restraint, including continued adherence to the FRBMAct; with a lump-sumallocation for additional pro-
poor initiatives contingent on achievement o f ambitious revenue targets.              Simultaneous assembly
elections held in a number o f states in April-May 2004 witnessed the defeat o f incumbent parties in the
majority o f cases, with the exception o f Orissa, where the incumbent coalition has been returned with a
renewed 5-year mandate. With the completion o f elections, the new governments at the Center and the
states face the challenge o f protecting vulnerable sections and investing in infiastructure and rural
development, while facing up to the prime necessity o f fiscal and power sector reforms, and creating
conditions that would encourage private investors and employment-oriented growth.

C.        Incentives for State-Level Reforms

 11.      Many o f the structural and fiscal reforms requiredto accelerate India's growth and reduce poverty
are in the domain o f the states. Improvements in the composition o f public expenditures, improvements
inthe investment climate (through the removal of bottlenecks inproduct and factor markets), as well as
more effective delivery o f health, education and safety-net services, all require significant policy and
institutional reforms at the state level. In addition, almost half o f the consolidated fiscal deficit i s made
up of the state-level deficits. State-level reforms are thus key to India's development.

 12.      The Government o f India has in the past few years intensified its efforts to support reform at the
 state level. Its Fiscal ReformFacility provides additional fundingto states on the basis o f improved fiscal
performance, and Orissa has been one of the beneficiaries. Go1 also has in place a scheme to enable
 states to benefit from debt restructuring through swapping low-interest for high-interest debt.           This
 initiative i s o f particular importance for heavily-indebted reforming states such as Orissa. In addition,
 efforts are being made to provide incentives for power sector reforms, and the Go1 has expanded the
 scope o f incentive-based fiscal transfers for urban reforms. Although these initiatives are in the right
 direction o f strengthening incentives for state reforms, they still account for a very small portion o f
 central resource transfers to states.
 13.      State-level adjustment loans and credits from external multilateral donors play a useful
 complementary role to GoI's own initiatives to encourage reforms by state governments. Extending such
 support to catalyze reforms in the lagging states, such as Orissa, i s o f particular strategic importance. To
 ensure that all states have common criteria and equal access to assistance, Go1issued a set o f guidelines


                                                        3

on structural adjustment lending.3 Finalized in December 2002, these guidelines emphasize that any state
seeking S A L assistance should have inplace a multi-year reformprogram that:

           0   Aims at generating primary and current surpluses and limiting the consolidated fiscal deficit
               to less than 3% o f GSDP over the medium term (3-5 years);
               Includes a program for subsidy elimination and a sustainable program for power sector
               subsidy elimination or containment;

           0   Reforms the civil service and reduces the administrative costs o f government; and

           0   Reformspublic sector enterprises including disinvestments.
14.        The Guidelines also state that "an overall focus on poverty reduction and sector-specific
parameters (infrastructure, education etc.) which are ingredients o f Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs), should also be reflectedinthe action program o f the SAL." The proposed Operation is broadly
consistent with these Go1guidelines on adjustment support for states.

            11.      ORISSA: DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REFORMPROGRAM

15.        Oriya society i s characterized by high incidence o f subsistence production, traditional land tenure
patterns and pronounced social and regional differences. With a population o f 35 million, almost half o f
who are below the official poverty line, annual per capita income inthe state (about US$250) i s the same
as inRajasthan and Madhya Pradesh 15 years ago, and Uttar Pradesh almost 10years ago. About 85% o f
the population lives in rural areas. Regional disparity i s marked, with a relatively well-off coastal area,
having historically benefited more from trade and public investment, and an extremely poor and isolated
interior, populated largely by tribal forest dwellers. The Scheduled Tribes (STs) constitute 22% o f the
total population in Orissa (compared to 8% in India), and 40% o f the poor inthe state. Annex Epresents
a profile o f poverty inOrissa.

A.         DevelopmentChallenges

16.        I n spite of rich natural resources, the rest of India is outgrowing Orissa. Onssa's growth has
lagged behind the all-India average during the 1990s. Orissa i s rich in mineral resources, with 26% o f
India's ore deposits, 23% o f coal, and 70% o f bauxite reserves. Forest cover i s also relatively high.
Fishing, mining and mineral-based industry
have been among the most important sources                     Table 1: Economic Growth in Selected States and All-India,

o f economic growth in the past.                 While                                    1960-2001
accelerated growth in the rest o f India has                                              (in percent)
lifted many out o f poverty, Orissa's progress
remains limited - even in comparison with                    Annual Growth     Orissa Andhra Pradesh     W. Bengal  All-India

other poor states. All the broad sectors o f the            1960161- I969170     4.4           1.5          2.5        3.0
state economy - agriculture, industry, and                  1970171- 1979180     2.3           3.2          2.9        3.6
services    - slowed down in the 1990s (Tables
1 and 2).          Mining and non-agricultural              1980181- I990191    5.0*           4.0          4.8        5.6

primary activities, which include forestry,                 I990191 -2000101     4.1           5.4          6.8        6.1
fishing and aquaculture, are the only sub-                  Notes: * 1980181to 1989190
sectors o f the economy that grew faster in the             Source: Central Statistical Organization Data
1990s compared to the previous decade.
Limited backward linkages o f some o f these sub-sectors has restricted the impact on employment and
poverty inthe State.


  "Structural Adjustment Assistance Facilities Guidelines", Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Govemment
o f India, December 2002.

                                                                4

17.      A key reasonfor Orissa's
relatively low growth is the poor                             Table 2: Orissa's Economic Growth 1980sand 1990s
                                                                                                        -
performance          of       agriculture.                                                (inpercent)
Agriculture i s the mainstay o f the
economy, providing employment                                                 Annual Growth Rate*              Contribution to Growth
to over four-fifths o f all workers-                                         1980-89        1991-00          1980.89          1991-00
even if its contribution to GSDP i s                     Primary               2.8             2.0                   41         20
only about one third. Small and                  Agriculture & Livestock       3.1             0.5                   35         1
marginal holdings predominate.                   Fishing & Forestry            - 0.9           2.4                              4
Over half o f the rural poor work                Mining &Quarrying             9.7            11.6                    6         15
as casual laborers and over one-                 Industry                      7.1             3.7                   22         20
third struggle to             subsist by         Services                      7.5             6.6                   37         60
cultivating small plots of land.                 Total GSDP                    5.0             4.1                  100        100
Orissa's agricultural sector i s less            Notes: *Trend rates using a semi-log regressionon GSDP data at 1993194 prices
diversified              and            less     Source: Central Statistical Organization data
commercialized than in any other
major Indian state. The low and declining productivity o f agriculture i s attributable in part to poor
investment in irrigation and low yields, regulatory constraints on private investment in marketing yards
and storage facilities, which, together with poor road connectivity, limits the market price realizable by
farmers inthe state.

18.       Following significant reductions in the 1980s, progress with poverty reduction has stalled
during the 1990s and nearly half of the population lives below the poverty line. About 17 million
people are below the official poverty line in Onssa - 47% o f the population. While poverty declined
significantly during the 1980s, at a rate
exceeding the all-India average, progress
in poverty reduction stalled during the
1990s (Figure l).4        Poverty declined in the
rural coastal region during the 1990s, but
rural areas in the southern interior region
witnessed an unprecedented increase in
poverty from 69% in 1993194 to 87% in
1999100 (poverty also increased slightly in
the northern interior region). Despite the
marked contrast in poverty rates across
regions, in absolute number the rural poor
are roughly equally distributed across
different regions (on account o f the very
high population density in the coastal
region).     High poverty in Orissa i s tied
mainly to low wages in agriculture, which
are inturn linked to low land productivity.


  Official estimates are not comparable between 1993/94 and 1999/2000 due to changes in the design o f the 1999100 survey. At
the All-India level, official estimates show a decline inpoverty from 36% inthe early 1990sto 26.1% in 1999-2000, but attempts
to adjust the household survey underlymg the 1999-2000 figures to make it comparable with earlier surveys result in a smaller
degree o f poverty reduction; how much smaller i s a matter o f considerable debate and estimates vary widely. One set o f now-
widely used estimates come from Deaton and Dreze's (2002) "Poverty and InequalityinIndia: A Reexamination", Economic and
Political Weekly, September 7. These estimates correct for non-comparability o f the 1993-94 and 1999-2000 surveys, and are
also based on poverty lines updated with revisedprice indices rather than the price indices that underpin the official poverty lines.
According to these estimates the headcount poverty ratio in 1999/2000 was 38.8% in Orissa. Using these adjusted estimates
changes the overall ranking o f Orissa as the poorest state in India to the second poorest (after Bihar). It does not change,
however, the trend o f little progress in poverty reduction in Orissa during the 1990s.


                                                                     5

19.         I n spite of recent improvements in literacy and population growth, Orissa lags behind the rest
of India on most indicators of human development (Table 3). Literacy and primary school enrolment
are close to the all-India averages, indicating success in catching up with the rest o f the country. The rate
o f annual population growth has slowed to 1.5% in the 1990s, lower than all-India (1.9%) and Orissa's
own rate in the previous decade (1.8%).                       However, Orissa i s still significantly behind with respect to
infant mortality and access to potable water, and the gap with respect to the prevalence o f underweight
children i s not narrowing. Although the status o f women in Orissa lags behind India as a whole, there are
welcome signs that the gender gap i s narrowing, as evidenced by school enrollment statistics and the
existence o f several thousand active women's self-help groups, both in coastal Orissa and in the interior.
Most social indicators remain considerably worse for the tribal population compared to others.

                                              Table 3: Orissa and India Selected Social Indicators
                                                                       -
                                                                        Orissa                              India
                                                        ,1983/~     1993~4     1999100      I983184    1993194     I999100
Poverty Headcount (percent)                              65.3       48.6       47.2         44.8       36          26.1
               Rural (percentj                           67.5       49.8       48.1         45.7       37.1        27.1
             Urban (percent)                             49.2       40.6       42.8         40.8       32.9        23.5
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)            163        122.1      a i          115        78.5        67.6
Under-five Mortality Rate (per `000live births)          nla        131        104.4        nla        109.3       94.6
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100,000 live births)        nla        nla        361          nla        nla         408
Prevalenceof Underweight children (percent)              nla        53.3       54.4         nla        53.4        47
Fully vaccinated children 12-23months                    nla        36.8       43.7         nla        35.4        42
Two doses or more of TT vaccination during pregnancy     nla        53.8       74.3         nla        53.8        66.8
Access to improved water source (percent)                nla        50.9       65.3         nla        68.2        77.9
Householdswith no LatrineRoilet facility (percent)       nla        87.8       86.5         nla        69.7        64
Adult Literacy rate (female)                             25.1       34.7       51           29.8       39.3        54.3
Adult literacy rate (both sexes)                         41         49.1       63.6         43.6       52.2        65.4
Enrollment rate 6-10 (both sexes)                        nla        67         75           nla        71          77
Enrollment rate 6-10 (female)                            nla        62         69           nla        65          73
Source: Planning Commission 2001; NFHS-1, NFHS-2

Note:

20.          Figure 2 shows Orissa's performance against some of the key MDGs. While Orissa appears to be
on track to meet some o f the MDGs infant mortality, access to safe water, and education enrolment,
                                                        -
many o f the other indicators are currently below target - such as the poverty rate, and the share o f births
attended by a healthprofessional. The incidence of underweight children i s highand remains a challenge.
21.          Socio-economic development of Orissa requires a rise in both quantity and quality of public
and private investment. As noted, public investments in the past have yielded low rates of return.
Orissa's infrastructure remains relatively underdeveloped, especially with respect to transport,
communication and rural electrification. Orissa does well interms o f roads, but only for unpaved and not
for pavedroads where it lags behind. Investments inmarketing yards and storage facilities, more balanced
use o f surface and groundwater irrigation, rural roads and upgrading o f linkages to the towns and the
ports, are essential for a vibrant market-oriented agricultural growth.                          Reliable power supply i s an
essential condition for employment intensive industrial and services growth, as well as for expanding
groundwater irrigation. Over the longer term, improving the effectiveness o f public investments in
elementary education and basic health, including with innovative forms o f public-private partnerships, are
necessary conditions for rapid poverty reducing growth.




                                                                       6

                    Figure 2: Progress in Orissa against the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)

I                    1. Poverty reduction
     -
   55.6                                                               I       2. Prevalence of underweight children

   -                                                                                                                    B
             48 6                                 60

      1.              & 47.2


  38.9      361
                     26.1                         10
                                                                      1987      1994       2001   2008    20150
'987       1994       2001       2008      2015
           Orissa MDGtarget -0rissa             - Actual                    Year

  --India-                                                              -- .C   Orissa MDGtarget -0rissa        - Actual
                 Actual                                                 __.-    India - Actual
                                                                                                                             ~




                    3. School enrolment




       71 6 /                   ~                                             78.5         67.6               e-50
       *'    684
                                                  , ` 60
  987        1994       2001         2008        2015
       Year
          .r OrissaM Etarget-0rissa             - Actual                --- e-  Orissa MDGtarget -0rissa
       --India-      Actual                                             __                                      - Actual
                                                                                India - Actual

         5. Proportion of births attended by a health                         6.Access to improved water sources
                          professional
                                                     r 100



                      42.3


              20.5                                                     I                                       , ` o
  1987       1994        2001        2008         2015                  1987     1994       2001    2008     2015
       Year                                                                  Year
        0     Orissa MDGtarget -0rissa            -Actual                       Orissa MDGtarget -0rissa        - Actual
     --India-Actual                                                     __      India Actual
                                                                                      -
Source: NFHSI,NHFS 11, NSS. The baseline for the MDGs i s based on extrapolation from existing data to the MDG baseline
year, 1990. Note that these are only a subset ofthe MDGs.

22.      Effective public investment is constrained by the acutefiscal crisis and cash crunch in which
Government of Orissa is caught. In spite o f recent progress, including in own revenue mobilization, the
fiscal deficit in Orissa remains high, estimated at 8.3% of GSDP in 2003-04. As explained in greater
detail in Section IIIB and in Annex C, the structural roots o f the fiscal stress in Orissa include an
excessively large and unaffordable civil service and a large debt ~verhang.~                    This results in a skewed
public expenditure composition with interest, salary, and pensions, absorbing 94% o f the state's total
revenue. Furthermore, although fiscal consolidation so far has been successful in reducing the primary
deficit, the large debt overhang has preventedsignificant reductions inthe overall fiscal balance.




  See INDIA: Strategy and Options for Fiscal Stabilization in Orissa (Report No. 15809-IN) and INDIA: Fiscal Reform and
Economic Growth in Orissa(Report No. 19234-IN).


                                                               7

B.       The Government's Strategyto Accelerate Growth and ReducePoverty

23.      As noted earlier, facing up to the severity of the fiscal crisis, Go0 began from early 2001 to
publicize and address its fiscal problems. Go0 has also recognized that (i)    restoring fiscal sustainability
cannot by itself accelerate growth and reduce poverty; (ii)        public acceptability and hence political
feasibility o f fiscal consolidation, involving downsizing o f the govemment, depends on the climate for
employment growth in the private sector; and (iii)    it is possible to encourage faster growth in some key
employment intensive sub-sectors without significant additional fiscal cost. It has therefore initiated the
process o f formulating a broader reform program for socio-economic development, to address the key
constraints to faster economic growth, effective service delivery, and poverty reduction.

24.      GOO'Sstrategy to accelerate growth and poverty reduction is articulated in its Tenth Five Year
Plan and draft "Vision 2020" strategy, under preparation. At the core o f the vision and strategy are:
efforts to encourage private sector growth to increase per capita incomes in Orissa, so that the widening
gap between the state per capita income and the national average i s first arrested and then reduced; and
efforts to enhance the quantity and quality o f public investment in human and social capital so that the
benefits o f income growth are more equitably distributedthan in the past. A Poverty Task Force (PTF),
established in 2002, has contracted a wide range o f technical work to feed into a Poverty Reduction
Strategy, currently under consultation and to be finalized in2004/05.

25.      Go0 has realized that poverty reducing economic growth would need to be broad based,
requiringacceleration o f growth o f both agriculture and non-agricultural sectors. Since the vast majority
of the poor are involvedinpaddy cultivation, and Orissa's importance as a source o f national grain supply
may increase as the foodgrain surplus and water deficient states beginto diversify out o frice and wheat --
raising productivity and value realization in paddy cultivation i s o f highpriority for poverty reduction in
this state. There is some scope for diversification into highvalue cash crops in selected regions, which
could be realized as market access improves for Onssa farmers. Other sectors also can and need to grow
faster  --such as tourism, handicrafts and other manufacturing sub-sectors with significant presence o f
small and medium scale producers -- to absorb the presently under-employed in agriculture and the future
unemployment that productivity enhancing agriculture technology i s likely to create.

26.       With the goals of accelerating economic growth to 6-6.5% per year and reducing poverty by 7
percentage points during 2002-07, and by 15 percentage points during 2008-12, the State's development
strategy focuses on:
              An enablingpolicy framework to improve the State's investment climate and expand income
              generating opportunities, particularly for the poor;
              Successful completion o f second generation reforms in the power sector, to ensure
              sustainable, adequate and affordable power supply to support the above;
              Restructuring     o f  the   largely  loss    making    public   enterprise   sector,    through
              divestment/sale/closures;
              Improving rural connectivity and expanding irrigation with emphasis on groundwater and
              watershed development programs;
              Strengthening the social sectors, including promotion o f ruralitriballfemale literacy, better
              health for all, safe drinkingwater supply, food security, and other social safety net programs;
              Mobilizing and enabling village women and the poor to participate in and benefit from
              economic growth, including through self-help groups and paani panchayats (water user
              groups); and

              Fiscal and govemance reforms, which focus on tax reforms, user charges for identified public
              services, improved public expenditure management, rightsizing the bureaucracy and
              improving the delivery o f public services.


                                                       8

27.     While the principles underpinningthis strategy are sound and consistent with the development
challenges facing Orissa, translating them into concrete and effective actions will be no small task. Go0
has taken some promisingsteps in this direction, with the State cabinet having approved policy papers on
(i) reform,(ii) enterprisereform,and(iii) expendituremanagementandadministrative
   fiscal              public                            public
reform. These provide the policy foundation for a coherent medium-term reform program. The main
content o f this program, and the important initial reform steps that have already been implemented, are
explained indetail inthe next section.

111.    ORISSA'S REFORMPROGRAMFOR SOCIO-ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT

28.     As outlined above, Goo's reform program focuses on growth-enhancing reforms; fiscal reforms
and expenditure policy; public expenditure management and governance reforms; and human
development and poverty monitoring. Annex A contains Goo's Letter o f Development Policy, and
should be read in conjunction with the MTFRF tabled in the State Legislature inAugust 2004 (Annex C).
The associated policy program matrix, which outlines specific actions and benchmarks for these
components, i s found inAnnex B.

A.      Growth-EnhancingReforms

29.     The emerging growth strategy i s based on the recognition that the state has potential to grow
much faster ifit can better utilize and market its considerable endowment o f cultural and natural resources
and improve the climate for private investment. Reforms implemented by the Government o f India
during the 1990s have contributed to enhancing Orissa's growth potential. In particular, the policy o f
cross-subsidization o f transport costs under the old freight equalization arrangements, annulled Orissa's
attraction as a location for mineral processing industries; and since Go1terminated the freight equalization
scheme, private investor interest in Orissa has increased in such sectors as ferro-chrome, aluminum and
steel. The emerging growth strategy focuses on reviving agricultural growth and encouraging private-
sector led industrial growth through an improved investment climate.

Agriculture h Irrigation Policy and Land Administration

30.      Go0 understands that without improving the productivity and market orientation o f agriculture in
the State, it would be impossible to achieve a visible reduction in poverty.             The Government has
contracted analytical work to improve its understanding o f the constraints to agricultural growth in the
state. At the same time, it has also initiated actions to redress some o f the already known problems in
Orissa, including:

         0   an unbalanced public investment program in irrigation, with excessive importance
             traditionally given to canal systems, while groundwater remains under-exploited in many
             districts;

         0   a relatively low density o f wholesale markets and road infrastructure leading to farmers inthe
             state receiving a lower price than their counterparts in neighboring states, while private
             investment innew market yards and storage infrastructurei s restricted by law;

         0   the poor quality o f administration and ownership records that restrict transactions in land, and
             negatively affect particularly the poor and most vulnerable among the farmers;

         0   the lack o f a legal framework (unlike in other states) for joint spouse ownership o f land,
             which restricts access o f women farmers to institutional credit, apart from weakening their
             relative position within the family; and

         0   the prevalence o f illegal land leasing arrangements (estimated at 10-20% o f operational
             holdings) that restrict access o f poor tenant farmers to institutional credit.


                                                        9

31.      In recognition of excessive and inefficient public investment in large-scale surface irrigation
projects inthe past, Goo's Tenth Five-Year Plan (2002-07) and Budget for 2003/04 have initiated a trend
towards more balanced use o f ground and surface water. The share o f minor irrigation within the budget
for Irrigation and Flood Control has risen, albeit gradually, from 18% in 1999100 to 21% in 2003104. A
new project has been introducedto incentivize private investmentsin groundwater irrigation by individual
farmers, or by water user associations (paani panchayats), with a one-time capital subsidy from the
budget; while the recurring cost o f Operations and Maintenance (O&M) would be the responsibility o f the
private owner or water user group.

32.      Inaddition to the strategic shift inirrigation investment,andto enhance agricultural productivity,
Go0 has also introducedjoint spouse titling o f land, thereby enhancing the status and security o f women
within the family. Computerization o f land records has been taken upby an estimated thirdof all tehsils,
with significant reductions in transaction costs. Legal land ownership records will be available to the
public fiom the computerized system inmore than 90% o f all tehsil offices by the end o f 2004/05. Future
initiatives to further raise agricultural productivity include steps to create appropriate institutional
arrangements, including a legal framework, for land leasing, to ensure adequate safeguards for both
tenants and landowners, and to attract private investment in agriculture and allied sectors. In2004-05,
Go0 plans to introduce an important amendment to the Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1956, to
facilitate private investmentinmarket yards and cold storage, and enable contract farming.

Regulatoy Frameworkfor PrivateEnterprise

33.      G o 0 has committed itself to reducing transaction costs on the private sector through its Industrial
Policy Resolution (IPR 2001), which represents a marked shift from the earlier policy o f control and
micro-regulation. The IPR entails, among other things: (i)    selective streamlining of laws and procedures;
(ii)facilitating an effective 'single point contact' by ensuring buy-in of all relevant govemment
departments and necessary delegation o fpowers; and (iii)    strengthening govemment capacity to discharge
its regulatory role ina more transparent and effective manner.

34.      Since the adoption o f the IPR, G o 0 has undertaken concrete initiatives to remove product and
factor market barriers and create an improved investment climate in Orissa. Some o f these include: (a)
establishment o f a rational schedule o f visits by labor inspectors, to minimize scope for harassment; (b)
establishment o f a grievance redressal mechanism for private investors through a High-Level Standing
Committee, under the chairmanship o f the Chief Secretary; (c) streamlining the allotment o f land; and (d)
establishment o f an objective zonal schedule o f ground rent for industrial use, thereby eliminating
discretionary powers o f district officials. Inaddition, preparatory work for an Industrial Facilitation Bill,
which will lay the foundation for the establishment o f a Single Window Clearance System, has been
largely completed over the past year and the Bill i s expected to be introduced in the legislature during
2004-05.

35.      Leaving aside the key issue o f power supply, anecdotal evidence suggests that particular
important provisions of the IPR are those relating to rationalization o f registration and reporting
procedures, inspection processes and the strengthening o f the single window facility. In this context,
actions planned for 2004105 include: rationalization o f entry regulations for private investors, including
reduction inthe number o f application forms from 16 to 2.

36.      While the actions already taken by Go0 suggest a more business-friendly Govemment willing to
address policy constraints to private investment, they will need to be complementedby a more systematic
and better-informed approach to improving the investment climate for all categories o f business.       Go0
has requested the Bank to conduct an Investment Climate Study, based on structured consultation with
private entrepreneurs, for a more comprehensive survey o f impediments to investment and private
 economic activity. The study will help identify not only policy and regulatory constraints but also
 informal obstacles, and will complement the reviews o f sector-specific constraints that are planned or


                                                       10

under way for tourism, handicrafts, fisheries, horticulture and agro-processing, with technical assistance
from the World Bank and the United Kingdom Department o f International Development (DFID). The
medium-term reform program envisages further follow-up including the design and implementation o f a
prioritized Action Plan based on the Investment Climate Survey and policy reviews of key sectors, and
accelerating the on-going activities to introduce selective information technology innovations.

Public EnterpriseReform

37.      Orissa has made considerable progress with public enterprise reform. The Public Enterprise
Reform and Privatization Policy, adopted in April 2002 after extensive stakeholder consultations, i s
aimed at reducing fiscal losses, facilitating private investment through a comprehensive program o f
privatization, closure/liquidation and restructuring o f both Public Enterprises (PES)and Co-operatives,
increasing the allocation o f public resources for priority development, and creating employment
opportunities over the medium term. Special provisions are included to protect the interests o f workers
adversely affected by the restructuring.
38.      A significant achievement has beenthe closure o f 10unviable enterprises and separation o f more
than 25,000 employees (or about one third o f those employed in non-power public enterprises) under a
cost-effective Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) and transitional assistance program, financed by
DFID assistance (about one-third o f retrenched employees found alternative employment through this
program).    Restructuring of a number of the large non-power public enterprises (Orissa State Road
Transport Corporation, Orissa State Financial Corporation, Orissa Lift Irrigation Company, and Orissa
Seed Corporation) has also made significant progress, with restructuring plans approved by the
Government, and organizational restructuringthrough VRS has commenced. The restructuringprocess i s
expected to be completed by 2005106. Also, G o 0 has initiated privatization o f ten enterprises, including
completion o f the privatization process for one such enterprise; it is expected that at least a further three
of these will be completed during 2004/05.             The program has been facilitated by an extensive
communications program of the Department o f Public Enterprises, involving all stakeholders, including
workers and trade unionists, the media, potential investors, and administrators.

39.      In the next phases o f the public enterprise reform program, in addition to continuing the
privatization and restructuringprocesses, G o 0 will focus on establishing capacity within a central body to
manage transactions proactively and ensure that due process i s followed, and prevent any weakening o f
necessary regulation.
 ThePower Sector
40.      Backgrourzd In response to a growing financial crisis in the power sector, Orissa pioneered the
unbundling and privatization o f electric power distribution     -  with mixed success. An independent
regulator, the OERC, has been functioning since 1996.            In generation, the Orissa Hydro Power
Corporation (OHPC) continues to be entirely Government owned, while Orissa Power Generation
Corporation (OPGC) has sold 49% o f its equity, with management control, to the private sector.
GRIDCO, the transmission company, has spun off its distribution business into four separate distribution
companies ("discos").     GRIDCO remains Government owned, while the discos have been privatized;
51% o f the shares, plus management control, have been transferred to the private sector. Three discos
(Wesco, Nesco, and Southco) were sold to Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Co (BSES) and the fourth
(Cesco) to AES in 1999.

41.      Onssa's pioneering efforts in power sector reform went against the then-prevailing national
 consensus against privatization. However, Orissa's privatization was not an unqualified success. The
program was severely affected by the super-cyclone that hit Orissa in October 1999, damaging
transmission and distribution infrastructure; and by the severe drought in 2002/03 that impacted the
 sector's financial performance. The reforms have also been set back by a number o f other problems, all
 leadingto a continuation o f the financial distress, including:


                                                        11

             a.   The initial expectations that privatization would lead to an infusion o f private capital and
                  management skills have not been realized. Moreover, the reform process suffered a major
                  setback when AES abandoned Cesco in September 2001, following which the OERC
                  appointed a state civil servant as administrator o f Cesco;
             b. While the state government stopped paying subsidies post privatization, the sector
                  continued to perform poorly and accumulate losses, which were partly financed by
                  accumulating debt on the books o f GRIDCO, guaranteed by GOO.

             C.   Delays in the tariff revision process and inadequate tariff adjustments have harmed cost
                  recovery;
             d. Insufficient improvements in metering, billing, and collection for electricity sales and
                  customer service have exacerbated financial distress;
             e. Inadequate efforts by the distribution companies and G o 0 have resulted in the
                  continuation o f significant power theft;
             f. A decrease in the remunerative industrial load has had a negative impact on financial
                  viability
42.       After a period of perceived highregulatory risk and poor sector performancepost privatization,
various measures have been taken to get the reform process back on track. In the latter part o f 2001,
OERC began to take leadership o f the sector - thus dramatically reducing the perception o f regulatory
risk. Inresponse to a tariff order given by OERC in 2002, Go0 accepted the need for various items o f
financial restructuring which have effectively reduced the Bulk Supply Tariff (by 5-10%). G o 0 has also
provided increased law and order support to the discos intheir efforts to improve collections and revenues
now cover the cost of bulk supply as well as part o f the distribution cost.                 Recent improvements in the
off-take from industrial consumers has also helped to boost collections by the discos. However, owing to
the past accumulation of debt, GRIDCO continues to be in severe financial difficulty, despite recently
malung some profits through the sale o f surplus
power to other states.                                           Table 4a: Financial Performance of the Power Sector
43.       Current Jinancial performance Table 4a                                         BID                   Net Profit

summarizes the financial performance o f Orissa's                                Rs.Bn.     %GSDP       Rs.Bn.       %GSDP

power sector, and shows significant variation in                  1996197         -0.96      -0.36%       -2.95        -1.11%

power sector performance over recent years.                       1997198         -1.05      -0.33%       -3.19        -0.99%
Especially if one looks at current performance,                   1998/99         -2.29      -0.64%       -5.79        -1.63%

segregating the impact of past problems and related               1999/00         -0.27      -0.07%       -5.24        -1.36%
accumulated debts, performance improved between                   2000/01         0.34       0.09%        -5.83        -1.50%
the late 1990s and 2003/04. However, performance                  2001102         1.43       0.33%        -5.24        -1.21Yo
in2002/03 was particularlybadas the drought ledto                 2002/03         -3.89      -0.88%      -11.33        -2.58%
increased power purchase costs as greater reliance 2003/04                        5.25       1.13%        -1.77        -0.38%
had to be placed on thermal rather than hydro Notes:EBIDis Earnings Before Interestand Depreciation.
power; if the impact of the hydro failure was                    All figures are for Transmissionand Distribution only.
segregated, EBID in        2002/03 would havebeen an              Source: Gridco andDistribution companies
estimated Rs. 0.61 billion, equivalent to 0.14% o f GSDP.6 In2003-04 GRIDCO made a profit (mainly
from the trading of surplus hydro power, and overall the sector (including generation) i s capable o f
covering its costs. Inrecent years, the power sector financing requirement (i.e. the negative o f EBIDplus
interest plus capital expenditure), i s estimated to have been around 1-1.5% o f GSDP annually. With the
exception o f 2002103, it has been declining steadily since 1998/99. As outlined in para 47 below, this



  At the hydro availability levels of 2001102, the power purchase expenses in 2002103 would have been lower by some Rs. 4.5
billion; EBIDwould thenhave been aroundRs. 0.61 billion.

                                                              12

financing requirement has been met largely through borrowings and defaults. Unlike in other Indian
states, the G o 0 has not paid any power subsidy since the beginningo f the reformprogram.

44.      Billing    and     collection
efficiency      Improvements        in                            Table 4b: Efficiency of the energy sector
current performance are correlated                                                         199940       2000-01 2001-022002-032003-O4
with     enhanced       billing   and     Collection efficiency                             77%           77%    74%    80%     84%
collection efficiency, in particular      Transmission and distribution(T&D) loss           47%           47%    50%    44%     43%
over the past two years (Table            Aggregate Technical & Commercial(AT&C) Loss       59yo          59%    63%    55%     52%
4b). Efficiency        improvements
have     resulted     from    several     Source: Gridco and Distribution companies
initiatives including increased off-
take fiom large consumers, more widespread consumer metering (Cesco has achieved 100% consumer
metering inFebruary 2004 and has introduced spot billing for all consumers), the use o f squads for arrear
collection and disconnections, and recruitment in the areas o f finance and engineering. The discos are
now covering their bulk supply tariff bill with their cash collections, which i s a first for the new mixed
load discos inIndia. The three BSES-managed discos have been paying full current power purchase dues
to Gridco for more than a year and have also started to make some payments towards past debts. (Figure


45,      Tariff levels Electricity tariffs cover on average about 77% o f the cost o f supply, which although
a low ratio, i s better than in some other Indian states. Domestic tariffs cover 55% o f cost, while industrial
tariffs exceed cost levels. The last retail tariff increase in Orissa was in February, 2001. The OERC has
been given a mandate from the cabinet to implement a multi-year tariff framework and also to develop a
multi-buyer market, but progress on both these aspects, and the open access mandatedby the Electricity
Act 2003, has been slow. The tariff order for FY2005 has yet to be notified, the filing was submitted
based on a multi-year filing, but it i s not yet clear whether OERC will implement the multi-year aspects at
this stage.
                                                                          Figure 3: The bulk supply tariff bill
46.      The timely payment of government                                         and cash collections

bills Since January 2004, Go0 has also
taken administrative measures to ensure                       1800
                                                                                                          r--i-l
                                                              1700
timely payment of electricity bills by the                    1600
government. As a result, payment by state                     1500                                         +Bulk     supply tari

government departments has risen to 95% o f                   1400                                         +Cash      collection
current billing, on average, during January-                  1300                                                              sl
                                                              1200                                        I                     I
March, 2004, showing that the Government                      1100
Order had an impact (payments during                          1000
FY2004 are 79%            o f current billing).                      1999- 2000- 2001- 2002- 2003-
                                                                     2000      01   02     03      04
However, as yet little impact has been made                                                                                      I
on the payments from local government, and                 Source: Data from distribution companies
the     total    outstanding     claims     from
Government departments to the distribution companies i s Rs 123 crore (i.e US$ 26.5 million).
Addressing these outstanding dues and ensuring the sustainability of the improvement made in current
payments will be key to ongoing improvements; and will form part o f the financial plan being developed
for the sector. Establishing a credible mechanism for ensuring full and timely bill payment by state and
local governments will be a prior action for OSEDL-11.

47.       The accumulation of past debts Although there are some signs that current performance i s
improving, power sector borrowing levels have continued to increase during the reform period. In




                                                               13

2003104, the outstanding debt o f the power sector' was estimated at Rs. 74.15 billion, equivalent to 15.9%
of GSDP. Under the securitization scheme, GRIDCO has securitised power purchase dues to NTPC
(National Thermal Power Corporation) through issue o f bonds o f about Rs. 11 billion. The final
settlement o f arrears and past dues remains to be addressed, in the context o f discussions on the business
plan for the sector as outlined below.
48.       A power sector business plan Going forward, most importantly a financial plan needs to be
completed, to address the financial requirements o f the sector, including a mechanism to reduce the
burdeno fpast debt inthe sector. Such a planwill need to have commitment from all the key stakeholders
(discos, GRIDCO, Go0 and OERC) before it i s submitted to lenders and creditors. Inparticular, the plan
needs to resolve financial issues between GRIDCO, G o 0 and the private discos. The process o f reaching
agreement on the business plan requires Commitment from all parties involved and continued strong
leadership from G o 0 to reach finalization during 2004-05. AES, who abandoned their investment in
2001, have expressed interest inresuming the management o f Cesco and are indiscussion with OERC on
this.
49.       Over the past two years, discussions have been on-going on such a Business Plan for the power
sector.    At the Government's initiative, two rounds o f discussions were held with the distribution
companies and GRIDCO in January and April, 2004, prior to the state elections.                             The discussions
centered around the performance parameters (e.g., base level o f AT&C loss, future loss reduction
trajectory, and payment o f past government dues), securitization o f past debts and commitment from
Reliance Energy (formerly BSES, the private company in charge o f three out o f four distribution zones)
to finance deficits resulting from shortfall in committed performance. The finalization and publication o f
the Business Plan, expected to be achieved during 2004-05, i s among the key prior actions required for
OSEDL-11.
50.       Medium-term reforms Other key steps that the Government needs to take during 2004105 are the
implementation o f provisions o f the Electricity Act 2003 including anti-theft provisions, open access and
multi-year tariffs, inline with OERC orders. At present doubts over the sustainability o f the power sector
reform program remain and there i s a risk that the sector could be brought to financial crisis by another
year of low hydropower resources. Over the medium term, as the sector achieves sustainable financial
improvements, the Government o f Orissa may consider selling its remaining holdings inthe power sector.
Further,in line with the terms o f the Electricity Act 2003, the transmission business is in the process o f
being divided into wires and trading (earlier deadline o f separation o f wires and trading business before
June 10, 2004 has been extended by Government o f India by one year), after which private participation
inthe wires operationcould also be invited.

B.        Fiscal Reforms

51.       The historical and structural roots o f the fiscal crisis in Orissa include an excessively large and
unaffordable civil service, an excessive number o f loss making public enterprises, and a large debt
overhang - resulting in an unsustainable deficit path and skewed public expenditure composition, with
interest, salary and pensions absorbing 100 percent o f the state's total revenues at the end o f the 1990s
(see also Annex C, final part).             Starting in 2000101, Go0 has implemented significant revenue
enhancement and expenditure saving measures to address the roots o f the problem. As a result, the ratio
of the salary bill to the state's own revenue has been reduced from 160% in 1999100 to an estimated 99%
in 2003104. The primary fiscal deficit has been reduced between 1999100 and 2003104, by over 5
percentage points of GSDP (Figure 4).* However, the interest burden has continued to rise, due to the


7 GRIDCO and OHPC (Orissa Hydro Power Corporation)debt.

  This figure excludesthe one-timeimpact in 2003-04 of the securitization o f power sector dues, amountingto Rs.ll.02billion or
2.4% of GSDP. Overalldeficit would be 10.6% of GSDP ifwe includethis impact.


                                                             14

impact o f high fiscal deficits o f the recent past. This has prevented a significant decline in the overall
deficit, with net debt accumulation at 7.9% o f
GSDP in2003104.
                                                              Figure 4 : Fiscal correction (Per cent GSDP)
52.       Tax Reforms. Orissa's own revenues
have increased from 6.3% in 1999100 to an
estimated 9.0% in 2003104, on the back o f a
series o f tax reforms. A professions tax was
introduced in 2000101.         Fixing o f excise       2%


adhesive labels on liquor bottles has reduced          7%

loss o f excise revenue.      Motor vehicle tax        5%

rates have been enhanced, by 20% for stage             3%
carriers and by 50% for private cars and two           i%
wheelers.     Sales tax incentives to industries
have been withdrawn, and the structure has             1%


been rationalized to only four rates.          The         <                       > <                                   >
                                                       3%


2004/05 budget reiterates GOO'Scommitment                                Actuals                              Projections

to introduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) in                     +Overall    deficit (net borrowing) --I-Primary     balance

place o f the current state sales tax, by April 1,    Source: MTFRF
2005. The MTFRFtargets a moderate further
enhancement inthe state's own tax revenues, about 0.4% o f GSDP over 4 years, mainly by strengthening
and cleaning up tax administration.
53.      Expenditure restructuring. On the expenditure side, after the substantial national public sector
pay settlement o f the late 1990s, Onssa has exercised more wage restraint than other states, including a
freeze on new hires, separation o f over 3000 casual and temporary employees, sensible abolition o f
vacant posts, and some rationalization o f staff benefits. Action has been taken to more strictly enforce
eligibility criteria for higher and secondary education subsidies, paid inthe form o f `grants-in-aid' linked
to the teachers' salary bill, so as to rationalize them and curb abuse. Significant progress has been made
with respect to privatizatiordclosure of public enterprises (paras. 37-39 above). The efficiency o f public
investment has improved as a result o f raising the share of groundwater within irrigation investments
(para. 31 above), and through improved expenditure management to achieve speedy completion o f
priority infrastructureprojects (paras. 58-63 below).
54.       Fiscalframework. The MTFRFfor 2003-08, which was tabled inthe State Legislature inAugust
2004, reflects a two-pronged approach to fiscal correction in Orissa. First, the effort i s to further reduce,
as rapidly as consistent with developmental imperatives, the primary (non-interest) deficit and convert it
into a significant surplus o f at least 2% o f GSDP by 2007/08. Second, the interest burden i s to be reduced
not only over the longer term through the achievement o f a primary surplus, but also in the short term by
making maximum use o f (i) swap and debt restructuring arrangements with GoI; and (ii)
                                debt                                                                                     additional
debt restructuring financed by adjustment assistance at relatively concessional terms. The combined
result i s a projectedreduction inthe overall fiscal deficit (net borrowing) from 7.9% o f GSDP in2003/04
to no more than 3.5% in 2007108. The burden o f annual interest payment i s projected to decline from
35% of total revenue in2003104 to 30% by 2007108.
 55.      Budgetfor 2004/05. While an Interim Budget had been presented inFebruary 2004, prior to the
 state elections, the full budget was presented on July 6',  2004. Inhis budget speech, the Finance Minister
of the re-elected government emphasized Orissa's commitment to restructure its finances, continuing the
process o f fiscal consolidation initiated in late 2001. Presenting a targeted reduction in the fiscal deficit
 o f over 1 percentage point o f GSDP, consistent with the MTFRF, he reiterated that the objectives would
be to accelerate economic growth, reduce poverty and provide social security to the weaker sections o f
the society. The budget speech also announced the government's intention to (i) adjustment loans toseek
 strengthen the reform effort; (ii)  introduce a Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill shortly,
 so as to institutionalize the medium term reform program and its objectives; and (iii) from the past       break

                                                       15

practice of trying to maximize the size o f the 'State Plan', focusing instead on improved utilization o f all
available developmental resources, including specific purpose central grants that are chanelled to the
districts, outside o f the state budget.


                                             Table 5: FiscalSummary- 1999/00-2007/08

   Per cent GSDP                                              I9991002000101 2001102 2002103 2003104 2004105200510620061072007108
                                                              Actuals Actuals Actuals Actualsia Estimate Proj.      Proj.     Proj.  Proj.
   Revenue                                                        15.2    17.8     16.3     18.7      19.6    20.3    21.9     21.7   21.2
         State's own revenue                                      6.3      7.4      7.3       8.8      9.0     9.2      9.3     9.4    9.4
         Central resources                                        9.0     10.4      9.0       9.9     10.6    11.1     12.6    12.3   11.8
               Central taxes                                      4.5      6.7      6.1       6.3      7.1     7.9      8.5     8.8    9.0
               Central grants Ib                                  4.4      3.7      2.9       3.6      3.4     3.2      4.0     3.6    2.8


   Non-interest expenditure                                      21.7     20.5     18.9     20.2      21.0    20.7     20.8     19.9   19.2
         Current expenditure (excl. interest)                     18.7    16.9     16.3      17.3     17.4     17.6    18.0     17.2   16.4
                01w Salary bill IC                                10.1     9.8      8.4       9.4      9.0      8.9     8.4     7.9    7.5
                01w Pensions                                       1.8     2.1      2.3       2.8      2.6      2.7     3.3      3.0    2.8
                01w Non-wage O&M Id                                2.2     1.8      2.1       2.0      2.4      2.4     2.4      2.4    2.4
   Capital investment                                              2.1     2.2      2.0       2.4      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7    2.7
    Net lending le                                                 1.0      1.4     0.6       0.4      0.9      0.3     0.0      0.0    0.0


    Primary balance                                               -6.5     -2.7     -2.6     -1.5      -1.4    -0.4      1.1     1.8    2.0
    Interest payments                                              3.2     5.9      6.5       6.6       6.9     6.8     6.8      6.7    6.4
    Overall balance le                                            -9.7     -8.6     -9.2     -8.0      -8.3    -7.1     -5.7    4 . 9  -4.4
    Overall borrowing (net borrowing) le                           8.7     7.5       6.1      8.6       7.9     7.1     4.7      3.7    3.2
    Memo items:
    Salary1Own revenue                                           160.6    132.5   114.9     106.1     99.3     96.2    89.5     84.4   79.9
    (Salary + Pension)/Own & Mandated revenue                    109.7    80.2     78.3      77.7     71.5     67.7    61.3     57.6   54.1
    lnteresff Revenue                                             21.0    33.1     40.2      35.1     35.3     33.3    31.2     30.7   30.0
    Current balance1revenue receiptslf                           -43.7    -27.9   -40.1     -24.6    -23.9    -17.2     -8.6    -4.3   -1.9
    DebffGSDP1g                                                   47.4     54.7    55.0      62.5     69.3     71.5    70.6     68.5   66.0
    Consolidated debt stock1Revenuereceipts If1g                  311      307      338       326      354     344      308     300    295
    Stock of guarantees1Revenue less grants (t-2)                  86      101      127        95       90      80       80       80     80
    /a Cash based accounts have been adjusted to include extraordinary payment arrears in 2002103of about 1.I% of GSDP
    1b Excluding grant component of extraordinary financing from external donors
    IC Grants-in-aidofsalaryofemployeesingovernmentaidedinstitutions
       Including
    Id Including non-salary recurring expenditures in education, health, nutrition, public works, water supply and sanitation,
    housing, major 8, medium irrigation, minor irrigation, flood control and roads and bridges
    le Excluding the one-time impact in 2003104of the securitization of power sector dues, amounting to 2.4% of GSDP
    If Definition includes SAL grant, as defined by the Go0 and the Go1
    1g Debt stock includes off-budget borrowing of the Go0
  Source: Go0 Budgetsand World Bank estimates

  Note: Differences in some o f the figures in this table from those shown in the Govt o f Orissa's Medium-Term
  Fiscal ReformProgram(Annex C) are due to definitional differences as listed inthe footnotes above.




                                                                         16

56.      Improvements in efficiency and effectiveness o f public spending, which have already started, are
necessary to justify further reallocation o f resources. Accordingly, as some additional fiscal space i s
created as a result o f the reforms, in the immediate future the fiscal dividendwould accrue inlarge part to
deficit reduction and only to a small degree to recovery o f O&M and capital investment, and to increased
expenditure on priority economic and social programs. In particular, recovery o f public investments
would be gradual and back-loaded, as the emphasis in the early phase o f reform i s on obtaining better
value for the money spent. The share o f resources for elementary education and basic health services will
nevertheless continue to rise as a result o f (i)some recruitment o f personnel to fill critical vacancies,
largely on contract basis, while recruitment will remain banned in most o f the other departments and (ii)
enhanced allocations for non-wage O&M and for the state's share o f priority anti-poverty programs co-
financed by the center, for which Go0 i s seeking additional external grant support frombilateral donors.

C.       GovernanceandAdministrativeReforms

57.      Go0 has embarked on a far-reaching program to improve governance and administrative
effectiveness - through creating stronger accountability mechanisms, better enforcement o f existing rules,
focusing the role o f the state, and more effective channels for public feedback and voice. T h i s program
includes measures to sharpen the tools of public expenditure management and financial accountability,
strengthen service delivery and public service integnty, take forward structural administrative reforms,
and streamline government organization with some rightsizing o f government employment. The reform
program was included, in relevant and time-bound detail, in a White Paper on Public Expenditure
Management and Administrative Reform, which has been approved by the Cabinet and presented to the
legislature.

Public Expenditure Programming and the Budgeting Process'

58.      As evident from the previous section, there is virtually no discretionary expenditure margin in
Orissa under the current straightjacket o f wages, pensions and debt service; hence fiscal space for
developmental initiatives must be created by deliberate policies to improve expenditure composition. In
order to operationalize these policies, improvementsinexpenditure programming, budget formulation and
budget execution are thus a key part of the reform program. Moreover, measures to raise allocative and
use efficiency are needed to both justify the gradual increases in expenditure in priority sectors and to
improve their effectiveness.

59.      Zero-based investment reviews In terms o f expenditure effectiveness, the proliferation o f
development schemes in Orissa (as elsewhere in India) has meant not only that resources have been
poorly used on low-priority projects but, more damaging, that priority projects have been starved o f the
resources needed to achieve their intended benefits.                Moreover, the squeeze on all discretionary
expenditure has led to a grave problem o f deferred maintenance and degradation o f the existing capital
stock. To overcome this problem and raise the effective rate o f return on investment, Go0 conducted in
2002/03, with technical assistance from the Bank, the first zero-based investment review o f all 149
physical infrastructure projects o f total cost greater than Rs.400 million (about US$1 million).                   The
objective was not fiscal savings, but greater investment efficiency through expenditure-neutral internal
reallocation. The zero-based investment review, guided by a High-powered Committee led by the Chief
 Secretary, required each government department to rank the identified investment schemes/projects under
four categories: (i)   those to be fully funded for fast track completion; (ii) to be funded on a slower
                                                                                     those
track; (iii)those to receive "subsistence" funding until redesign or restructuring; and (iv) those to be


  Expenditureprogramming, budget preparationand approval, budget execution and monitoring, accounting, audit and financial
reporting are all part of an integrated public expenditure and financial management system. Although the upstream and
downstreamphases of the system are discussedunder separate headings, the dialogue with Go0 has been carried out on ajoint
basisby the respectively-concemedstaff.

                                                            17

scrapped or shelved indefinitely. As a result, the Government cancelled 83 projects deemed unproductive
or obsolete, and reallocated about 25% o f the investment budget for physical infrastructure from low- to
high-priority schemes -thus permitting the completion o f a significant number o f investmentprojects.

60.      Because the reallocations were made internally within departments, no inter-sectoral reallocation
occurred. However, the investment review was extremely useful and identified high priority projects
related to two o f the key constraints on growth, i.e. rural connectivity (roads and bridges) and water
supply. Regarding the latter, through the zero-based investment review G o 0 began an important shift in
emphasis from large-scale 'surface water irrigation to more effective small projects for improved
exploitation o f groundwater. The first zero-based investment review has been followed in 2003/04 by a
second review, to complete the weeding out o f obsolete infrastructural projects. In parallel, a more
qualitative exercise, described later under service delivery, will be conducted on the major social sector
projects and programs.
61.      New investment procedures In addition to the zero-based investment review, G o 0 also
introduced new investment procedures in 2003/04 to tighten the funding o f plan schemes. Amongst
others, the measures included the setting out in advance o f sectoral envelopes, giving priority to
continuing projects and to projects nearing completion and requiring viability analysis for proposed
schemes. One o f the key imperatives inmoving forward would be to prioritize available resources so as
to maximize utilization o f available central and extemal donor funds for priority social programs, and
enhance the effectiveness o f the targeting o f such programs while containingthe size o f overall spending.

62.      Strengthening of the budgeting process Initial strengthening o f the budgeting process also
includes improvements in systems and procedures for revenue forecasting (with actual revenue in
2002/03 and 2003/04 closely approximating the budget targets) and the communication o f aggregate
expenditure envelopes for each department at the start o f the preparation o f the budget, started with the
2003/04 budget. For the better preparation and execution o f future budgets, G o 0 intends, among other
things, to:

         0   improve fiscal marksmanship further;

         0   assure consistency o fthe ex ante departmental spending envelopes with the MTFRF;

         0   formulate an annual, quarterly and monthly cash plan, based on revenue and expenditure
             seasonality, to improve cash management and predictability;

         0   implement a system for monitoring o f expenditure commitments, to prevent arrears; and

         0   introduce `fiscal responsibility' legislation, with scope and modalities suited to Orissa's
             reform program and circumstances.

63.      Capacity building Capacity building i s crucial to operationalize these institutional reforms, and
G o 0 has formulated a training program in public expenditure programming and budget preparation for
key officers inthe Finance Department, the line departments, the Panchayat Raj institutions, and members
o f the legislative assembly. Implementation of this program has begun in 2004 with DFID and Bank
assistance. In addition to MTFRF preparation and budget formulation, the program will also contain
modules on project appraisal and project management; and elementary budgeting for Panchayati Raj
Institutions (PRIs) staff.
Public Procurement and Financial Accountability

64.      Financial accountability. Improving public financial accountability i s a central part o f the
reform program inOrissa. A number of steps inthat direction have been taken by G o 0 including:

         0   The decision to establish departmental committees to monitor responses to the Auditor
             General (AG), as well as an Apex Committee headed by Chief Secretary to monitor the
             follow up;



                                                       18

         0    The practice o f tabling AG reports inthe Assembly at the same time as the budget;

         0    The instructionto include inutilization certificates for physical infrastructure a description o f
              the physical progress o f works or assets created - signedby the Head o f Department;

         0    Tightening o f controls over the issues o f guarantees;
         e    Making public enterprises whose accounts are late ineligible for loan guarantees and for
              fundingo fcost-of-living allowance for employees, beginning with 2003/04; and

         0    Launching o f expenditure tracking o f selected major programs to identify leakages and
              improve targeting and efficiency.

65.      A State Financial Accountability Assessment (SFAA) was completed during the first half o f
2004.    The general conclusion is that fiduciary risk in Orissa is significant, mainly as a result o f
weaknesses in the practice o f financial management rather than from inadequacy o f the rules - the
framework for which i s centrally-determined. The principal SFAA conclusions and recommendations,
consistent with the fiscal reforms described earlier, are:

              The fiscal crisis has caused a `financial crunch' such that liquidity management overshadows
              almost all development efforts and budget implementation i s hampered;
              The institution o f Financial Advisors inline Departments has become largely ineffective and
              there are weaknesses ininternal controls;
              Accounting and financial reporting comply with national requirements, but financial
              reporting formats are unnecessarily complex;
              The framework for financial management o f public sector undertakings i s reasonably sound
              but not functioning as intended. Of greatest concern are the extensive weaknesses ininternal
              control and audit, and the failure to enforce the enterprises' financial reporting requirements,
              with annual financial statements often incomplete and grossly inarrears;
              Concerning local government, financial transparency i s insufficient and fiduciary risk i s high.
              Progress in devolution would call for building local financial management capacity and
              strengthening the accountability o f local officials to the communities they serve;
              Stated standards o f external audit are very good, but follow-up o f audit findings by the
              Executive i s not, althoughthe situation has improved inthe last two years; and
              Legislative scrutiny i s nonpartisan and independent, but not as effective as it could be. The
              response by the Executive has not always been timely.

66.      Consistent with the above conclusions, recommendations have been formulated for the short-,
medium- and long-term respectively, to help ensure better delivery o f public services, enhanced
productivity o f public resources, and greater accountability to the stakeholders. G o 0 has prepared a time-
bound Development Action Plan, and a framework o f a monitoring system for tracking the progress o f the
implementation o f the DAP has been developed. The beginning o f the implementation o f the key steps in
the first phase o fthis Action Plan is a milestone for OSEDL-11.

67.      Procurement. The Government o f Orissa, with technical support from World Bank procurement
specialists, has conducted an assessment o f the strengths and weaknesses in the system and practices o f
public procurement in Orissa. The discussions concluded with the assessment that Orissa suffers from the
same weaknesses that other Indian states suffer from, as reflected, for example, in the State Procurement
Assessment Report for Maharashtra. Standard guidelines need to be modernized and rationalized.

68.       On the basis o f this assessment, a draft Medium Term Action Plan i s under preparation which is
to be finalized  in2004-05. Meanwhile, the following actions have already been taken towards enhancing
transparency and value for money:



                                                        19

           0     Tenders and bid documents for works costing above Rs. 5 million have been posted on
                 the website;

           0     Maximumtime has been stipulated for scrutiny o f tenders; and

           0     Monetary incentives (1% for one month and 2% for two months) have been introduced
                 for early completion o f contracted works.

Service Delivery and Devolution

69.      Service delivery To begin the process o f improving public services and to consolidate public
support for the reform process, Go0 i s concentrating on citizen-focused service delivery. Action plans
have been developed for improving service delivery in four selected agencies, including the tehsil (land
records) office, the motor vehicles office, and selected municipal offices. Transaction costs for large
sections o f the population will be significantly reduced by the computerization o f land records (one third
of which has already been completed), births and deaths registrations, and other specific public services.
G o 0 also intends to strengthen the effectiveness o f the Public Distribution System (PDS), with a view to
improving its targeting and management, without reducing the resources dedicated to this essential
objective.    A variety o f concrete steps are already being taken by a number o f individual District
Collectors, on their own initiative, including the devolution o f responsibility for managing the PDS
outlets to well functioning women's self-help groups.

70.      As mentioned inpara. 53, improvements inuse efficiency are needed to underpin a reallocation
of expenditure to priority sectors.     The expenditure tracking studies being launched, in addition to
pinpointing financial leakages (see para. 96), will serve to identify potential efficiency improvements and
complementary measures needed for greater effectiveness.          Over the medium term, actions will be
initiated on the findings of these two studies, and an additional four expenditure tracking studies will be
launched, inclusive o f two major infrastructure projects.
71.      Devolution Directly related to the service delivery agenda i s Go0 decision to pursue appropriate
devolution to local bodies, as a means to both improve basic public services through stronger
accountability and to empower the poor. Devolution i s a vast medium- and long-term challenge, but
significant initial steps have already been taken. As many as 25 subjects in 11 departments have been
transferred to the Panchayati Raj institutions (rural local bodies), including the transfer o f the supervision
of village education committees to elected rural local bodies. Also, water access and distribution are
expected to be substantially improved by Go0 encouragement o f the establishment o f water user groups
(paani panchayats). Go0 has also launched its urban reform initiative with an Ordinance to upgrade the
two largest cities, Cuttack and Bhubaneshwar, as Corporations; and moved to simplify property tax
assessment and levy mechanismas o f 2003/04.
72.      T o examine systematically the key issues o f effective devolution, the Government has established
a High-powered Committee including the top leadership o f the administration; and will develop a
medium-term action plan for effective devolution. As concluded in the State Financial Accountability
Assessment (para. 65 above), substantial strengthening of financial accountability mechanisms at local
level, and capacity building in basic financial management, will be needed for significant devolution of
resources to proceed further.     Go0 also recognizes the importance o f strengthening administrative
institutions at the district level to support better planning, co-ordination and monitoring of service
delivery. Reviews o f district administration are planned to study institutional constraints and provide
 short and mediumterm recommendations to strengthen key functions.




                                                       20

Anti-corruption

73.      The Orissa Vigilance Commission has been effective on the enforcement side, and the rate o f
prosecution of anti-cormption cases, already comparatively high, has accelerated in recent years. The
number of anti-corruption cases registered has increased from an average of about 260 per year in the
1990s, to an average of 310 per year since 2000. G o 0 plans to establish two new special courts in
2004/05, with proper rationalizationo f manpower, to help tackle the backlog o fpending cases.

74.      G o 0 has made a strategic choice to first address corruption problems through a variety o f
concrete measures with significant impact on reducing opportunities for corruption. These measures,
described separately under the other areas of the program, include mainly:

         0   improvements in financial controls and accountability, as summarized inpara 64 above;

         0   rationalization of drug procurement for the public health system;

         0   initial placement o f government forms on-line to facilitate transactions and reduce
             intermediation;

         0   initial contraction inpayroll for temporary and casual employees (some o f whom were infact
             no longer employed); and

         0   tighter scrutiny o f eligibility of higher educational institutions for budgetary grants.

75.      Over the next year, buildingon these initial concrete actions, G o 0 plans to formulate and adopt a
broader anti-corruption strategy, based on wide-ranging consultations and public debate.                   Following
international good practice, the strategy will rest on three pillars: prevention, enforcement, and
communication.       Improvements in procurement practices will contribute to reducing the scope for
corruption. Finally, service delivery surveys will be conducted, including at the district level, to assess
citizens' perceptions o f constraints to the delivery o f selected public services and these surveys will serve
as benchmarks against which improvements inservice delivery can be tracked.

Administrative and Civil ServiceReform

76.      Organizational Reviews G o 0 recognizes that major improvements are needed in both the
machinery o f government and the management o f human resources ifthe state i s to move from playing an
all pervasive interventionist role to one that i s more focused and enabling. The imperative to provide
some space for development and O&M expenditure makes it essential to reduce share o f the salary bill in
total spending. It i s important, however, that the reduction in the number o f employees not occur in an
arbitrary manner, but flow from a prior review o f the functions o f government. Accordingly, G o 0 has
launched a series o f organizational reviews and zero-based functional audits o f the line departments. Ten
such exercises were completed in 2002 and 2003; and the process o f organizational reviews o f all major
departments o f state government i s expected to be completed in 2005.''                        The findings and
recommendations o f the organizational reviews are expected to begin to be implemented as and when
they emerge in final form. Effective organizational restructuring and institutional change are long-term
tasks and require broad consultations and steady leadership. Such leadership has been and will continue
to be provided by an Administrative Reform Cell, established by G o 0 in 2002, to guide and coordinate
the implementation o f the administrative reform program, and reporting directly to the Chief Secretary.
Inaddition Go0 is considering the setting up of a Centre for Governance to support departments to better
analyze and implement institutional reform strategies.




lo, The four departments reviewed in 2002 are: Health, School and Mass Education, Forestry, and Water Resources. The
departments reviewed in 2003 are: Commerce and Transport, Govemment Press, Panchayati Raj Institutions, Industries, Land
Revenueand Registration, CommercialTax, and Agriculture.

                                                         21

77.        Human resource management Inhuman resource management, revision o f the current rules and
strengthening o f their enforcement are badly needed in the medium term, mainly to increase the role o f
merit in personnel decisions; encourage mobility while protecting employees from arbitrary action,
particularly sudden transfers; introduce some accountability for performance; and generally move toward
a comprehensive human resource development strategy and personnel management function - partly by
computerizing payroll and pensions.                        A human resource management and information system and
database are under development and Go0 plans to take forward a comprehensive analysis o f human
resource policies and practice in2004/05.
78.         Civil sewice reform For years, the public sector in Orissa has acted as employer o f first resort,
leading to a govemment workforce proportionatelymuch larger than inother Indian states (Table 6). The
ensuing fiscal burden was aggravated by the impact o f the large pay hike along the lines o f the 1997
central Fifth Pay Commission recommendation for Go1employees. Go0 has already taken a number o f
key steps to downsize the govemment workforce by attrition. With respect to regular employees, 50% o f
the vacant entry level posts have been abolished, and a recruitment freeze has been enacted from mid
2001 (with exemptions in case o f demonstrated need for doctors, nurses, primary teachers, and strike
police). Going forward, 75% o f vacant regular posts at entry level will be eliminated (except for freeze
exempted posts). The recruitment freeze will be maintained for some time, and will be closely monitored
withthe aid o fthe new payroll systembeing constructed.
 Table 6: Government Employment,Selected Indian States




pamil Nadu         162.000,OOO      1696,700            (1.12     11,092,731        11.76    11,317,512        12.13       I
Note :All data pertains to 2002103 apartfrom (i) datapertains to 1999/00 ;(ii) datapertains to 1998/99.
Note: TotalPublic Sector Employment includes core civil service, work charged and daily wage employees, grant-in-
aid institutions, state- owned enterprises, and local bodies.
Source: World Bank estimates


79.          1200 staff have been redeployed from surplus to deficient departments and/or functions. Go0
has       also      taken       steps       to
rationalize staff benefits, such                                                                ~~~



                                                                           Figure 5. Teacher Absenteeism Across Major Indian States (%)
as the elimination o f the facility
to encash accumulated leave                           II     0.45 1

while still in service.            Go0 i s
also considering to replace the
practice         o f      'compassionate
appointment'           o f relatives o f
deceased civil servants with
appropriate monetary assistance
ingenuine hardship cases and is
putting in place provisions for
enforcement o f the rules for
premature retirement o f poor-
performing employees.                              Source: WDR 2004


                                                                          22

80.      Curtailing payroll for temporary and casual workers can have a significant anti-corruption and
efficiency impact as well as reduce the fiscal burden o f the wage bill, at little human cost, further
addressed by appropriate severance provisions. At least 10% o f the 36,000 temporary/casual staff have
been separated. Going forward, further reductions on the salary bill for temporary workers are planned.


D.       HumanDevelopmentandPoverty monitoring and evaluation

Education

81.      As noted earlier, Orissa has achieved some degree o f progress in terms o f primary school
enrollment and the literacy rate among men and women. It i s also judged to be performing better than
average among Indian states in terms o f teacher attendance in schools (Figure 5), although regional
disparity i s a continuing concern.

82.      Nevertheless, many challenges remain if Orissa wants to achieve the MDG targets.                Public
spending on elementary education, at around 2.6% o f GSDP in 2001/02, i s less than what i s required to
provide services o f adequate quantity and quality to achieve universal primary schooling. Inaddition, and
in recognition of the fact that the current resources could be spent more efficiently, Go0 has started to
take steps aimed at raising the share o f elementary education by (i)  reallocatingwasteful expenditure that
could be saved through the rationalization o f higher education grants and improved deployment o f
teachers; and (ii)   leveraging effectively additional resources available from Government o f India and
external donors under the Sawa Shiksha Abhiyan, a centrally sponsored program for universalizing
elementary education.

83.      As a first critical step the Government has issued an order to begin addressing the inefficient use
of public funds in the form o f `grants-in-aid' to private higher education institutions, whose outcomes in
terms o f the number o f students educated do not warrant the level o f public funding. G o 0 will prepare
half-yearly reports on the implementation o f the government order. If the order, which requires strict
enforcement o f the provisions under the existing legislation (Orissa Education Act, 1969) governing
eligibility for grants, i s implemented effectively by education authorities, the resultingbudgetary savings
would reduce the shortfall estimated to be about Rs. 20-25 crores (i.e US$4.5-5.5 million) in 2003-04
alone in the state's share o f centrally sponsored programs, including the SSA. A longer term solution
would be to restructure the `grants-in-aid' scheme to make it more responsive to educational needs, and
reduce the fiscal burden for providing higher education.

84.      Over the medium term, developing methods to deliver education services to remote and less-
populated areas will go a long way to improving education outcomes. G o 0 i s preparing to implement a
number o f institutional reforms aimed at improving the management o f education to make it more
effective and accountable to beneficiaries (i.e. parents and their children, particularly in ST/SC areas), An
Organizational Review o f the School & Mass Education Department has been completed. Stakeholder
consultations on the Review's findings would be important for building the broad-based support that i s
essential for key recommendations to be implemented. Initial steps towards decentralized management o f
education have already been implemented. These include:

                  Involvement of user groups (school education committees) alongside elected local body
                  representatives inthe affairs o f elementary schools;

              0   Evidence-based deployment of teachers and school-based generation o f vacancies in
                  order to ensure efficient use o f human resources; and
                  Hiring of qualified    locals as para-teachers in elementary schools through village
                  education committees. Among other advantages, this practice would alleviate the chronic
                  teacher shortages due to substantial rotation o f teachers in interior areas (especially tribal
                  areas).

                                                       23

85.       The immediate challenge for the Government i s to implement the key recommendations o f the
Review through a time-bound action plan aimed at establishing more effective structures at the state-,
district and block-levels. This plan would include actions to abolish non-essential posts and re-deploy
staff to the field where they are needed to provide improved technical/academic support to schools.

Health care system

86.       The population o f Orissa has one o f the highest burdens o f disease, mainly due to infectious
disease (acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, TB, malaria) and under-nutrition. The highest incidence i s
among children under 5 years and women, particularly in rural areas. Approximately one-quarter o f
public expenditure i s on primary care and one-quarter on public health.             The largest category o f
expenditure across all levels o f public health care i s for salaries-  more than 85%. The total sanctioned
personnel strength consist o f 4,900 doctors, 2,308 nurses and 11,600 multi-purpose health workers.
However, the vacancy rate i s high- for example, 25% o f all doctor positions are vacant, with the vacancy
rate as high as 33% in Primary Health Centers (PHCs), and even more in remote areas. Absence o f
critical personnel as well as lack o f functioning equipment and adequate drug supply have contributed to
ineffective public spending in health.       Accordingly, the population relies to a significant extent on
informal private practitioners, who have many advantages for villagers: they are already present in the
village (as compared to the doctor who often does not live locally and i s frequently absent from the public
facility); they open at convenient times; provide greater confidentiality; charge less than the cost o f travel
to and informal charges at the public facilities; and provide credit ifnecessary. Overall, informal private
practitioners represent an important under-utilized resource for providing basic ambulatory care.
87.       Recent initiatives by Go0 include measures to retain staff in post and reduce vacancies;
introduction o f user charges at tertiary and secondary hospitals; devolution o f some buildingmaintenance
decisions; establishing a communicable disease surveillance system; and the launching o f an infant
mortality reduction mission. In addition, Go0 has established a new policy for drug procurement and
distribution, with stringent quality checks and computerized inventory management with online
connection between all district and state warehouses. An assessment conducted by DFID suggests that
the new drugprocurement system established by Go0 has resulted in an improvement in the availability
o f drugs on the essential drugs list and has increased the use o f standard treatment protocols in public
facilities.
88.       A new Health Sector Strategy, based on the identification o fpriority health outcomes (infant and
child mortality, maternal mortality, control o f communicable diseases) and effective public-private
partnership, was approved by cabinet in 2003. A new system o f drug procurement has been introduced,
with stricter enforcement o f quality standards, to improve the availability o f essential drugs and the use o f
standard treatment protocols. An organizational review o f the Department o f Health has been completed
in2003-04. Immediatenext steps, expected in2004-05, include:

          0    Consolidation of the new system o f drug procurement and distribution, with quality checks
               and computerized inventory management, to ensure availability o f essential drugs in at least
               80% o f primary health centers;

          0    Implementation o f the first phase o f reorganizationo f the Department o f Health, based on the
              recent organizational review, to facilitate achievement o f the health goals of the state,
               including enabling and facilitating the involvement o f the private sector; and

          0    Preparation o f a draft action plan for achieving priority health outcomes (infant and child
               mortality, maternal mortality and control o f communicable disease)

89.       Medium-term actions include the following:

          0    Implement first phase o f the Action Plan to achieve improved priority health outcomes;



                                                        24

        0    Formulate plans for intersectoral collaboration to achieve better health outcomes with
             emphasis on nutrition, potable water and sanitation;

        0    Formulate and agree with Department o f Finance on a Medium Term Expenditure and
             Financing Plan for health, linked to the priority health outcomes; and

        0    Independentevaluations o f government's health interventionsby reputed institutions.

Poverty monitoring and evaluation

90.     A multi-sectoral Poverty Task Force (PTF) led by the Orissa Development Commissioner, i s
mandated to develop a comprehensive anti-poverty strategy to promote pro-poor growth, rationalize the
main anti-poverty programs, monitor implementation o f policies, and communicate to a broad range o f
stakeholders within as well as outside o f the government the content and impact o fprograms and policies.
The PTF has contracted analytical work and organized a series o f public workshops to communicate the
urgent need for institutional and policy reforms to enable more rapid poverty reduction. A number o f
studies to underpinthe anti-poverty strategy have been completed and a series o f public workshops were
organized to communicate the urgent need for reforms. Inlate-2004, after appropriate consultations with
civil society, the anti-poverty strategy currently beingprepared by the PTF i s expected to be finalized.
91.      The PTF has also been entrusted by Go0 with the responsibility for poverty monitoring and
evaluation o f anti-poverty programs. To accomplish monitoring and evaluation tasks more effectively, a
comprehensive poverty and human development monitoring system (PHDMS) has been set-up by the
PTF. One of the main objectives o f this system i s to track the impact o f reforms on the public, and
strengthen GOO'Scapacity to designpro-poor policies by more clearly linkingexpenditures with outcome
measures. These monitoring initiatives involve Orissa's Department o f Economics and Statistics (DES),
the Nabakrushna Choudhury Center for Development Studies (NCCDS), and the PTF secretariat located
in the department o f Planning and Coordination.          The framework for PHMDS includes four sub-
components: (i)strengthening capacity in the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, including the
devolution o f data entry to the district offices; (ii) improving institutional capacity for poverty analysis
and developing a comprehensive baseline o f poverty and development indicators; and (iii)         expenditure
tracking o f selected anti-poverty schemes (see para. 96). While poverty analysis i s being carried out by
NCCDS and DES, the PTF secretariat will act as a main focal point, and will advise Go0 on policy
implications o f these analyses.
92.      Strengthening capacity in the Directorate of Economics and Statistics. The Directorate o f
Economics and Statistics, which i s responsible for collection and entry o f the State National Sample
Surveys (NSS) sample, has limited capacity for timely collection and processing o f data. DES has
produced a document summarizing its critical capacity needs, identifying (i)    shortage o f skills in the DES
to process and analyze many o f the important data (this i s currently done in the NSS central statistical
office in Calcutta), and (ii) the centralization o f data entry in Bhubaneswar, as the major obstacles for
enhancing the timeliness and quality o f data reporting.
93.      To support strengthening o f statistical capacity in Orissa, DFID and the World Bank have been
providing technical assistance focusing on (i)     computer training for data analysis (STATA and CSpro),
and (ii) computerization o f district statistical offices. On-the-job training in data analysis for officers in
the DES in Bhubaneswar has started in May 2003 and a core group o f DES and PTF senior officers have
already received specialized and basic training. DFIDhas agreed to support the purchase o f hardware and
software for the District Statistical Offices (DSO) and the PTF, and the implementation o f this TA
component i s expected to start soon.         It will be followed by technical assistance to support the
development o f specialized software for the DSOs and training o f DSO statistical officers.
94.      Improving institutional capacityfor poverty analysis and developing a comprehensive baseline
of poverty and development indicators.          Orissa has recently drafted a State Development Report,
including chapters on poverty and social sector development; and a Human Development Report i s being

                                                        25

prepared with the assistance from UNDP.                     Orissa also has a substantial information database on
development outcomes including various rounds of India's National Sample Surveys (NSS); two rounds
o f Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS); and a Population Census, conducted every ten years, whose
latest round was completed in 2001. There are further indicators collected by line ministries (e.g. health
surveillance, nutrition monitoring under ICDS, etc.), and by individual project implementation units.
Many of these data sources are available at the unit-record or district level.
95.       Based on analysis o f the most recent micro-level data, the baseline assessment will outline levels
and trends in various dimensions o f poverty.                   The choice o f key indicators will be based on the
development goals o f the Tenth Five Year Plan (similar inmany respects to the Millennium Development
Goals), but include a broader range o f indicators discussed with stakeholders within as well as outside o f
the government. The PTF secretariat has primary responsibility for the preparation of the comprehensive
baseline assessment and i s in the process o f finalizing the indicators to be monitored (see Annex E) as
well as institutional and reporting responsibilities o f different agencies. The DES and the NCCDS have
started analysis o f the NSS data with the view to computing baseline district-level poverty estimates and
disaggregated profile o f poverty.''           DES and NCCDS staff, as well as other government officials are
being provided training in research methods o f poverty analysis through support from the World Bank
and DFID.
96.       Finally, expenditure tracking will be conducted of three expenditure programs to improve the
design of public service deliveryprograms with major implicationsfor thepoor. Funds for delivery o f
social services flow, upon release, within a pre-defined legal, regulatory, and institutional framework,
passing through the layers o f the government down to the facilities, which are charged with the
responsibility o f actual spending. There i s a concern (not just in Orissa, but in many other states and
countries), however, that some o f the money often fails to reach frontline service providers, and some o f
the services fail to reach beneficiaries. In response to this concern, a methodology for expenditure
tracking studies has evolved, to trace the flow o f resources through each institutional layer in order to
determine how much of the original resources reaches each level, and how long they take to get there.
Three schemes have been identifiedby G o 0 for a first round o f expenditure tracking, namely:

           0    The Sampoorna Gramin Rojgar Yojana (SGRY), which i s the key rural employment
                programme inthe state, administered by the Department o f Panchayati Raj.

           0    The Special Nutrition Programme (SNP) which provides supplementary nutrition to children
                in the 0-6 age-group, as well as to expectant and nursing mothers, administered by the
                Department o fWomen and Child Development.

           0    The Mid-Day Meal Programme (MDMP) which provides noon meals to primary school
                children across the state, administered by the Department o fWomen and Child Development.
The PTF secretariat i s supervising expenditure tracking and it i s expected that early results will feed into
the formulation o fthe Government Budget for 2005/06.




l1 The district-level poverty estimates are expected to be used to improve the identification and targeting o f Below Poverty Line
(BPL) households by determining the BPL allocations across districts. The Ministry o f Rural Development, which conducts a
B P L census every five years to identify beneficiaries to participate in various development programs, has recently outlined new
criteria for the selection o f poor households. Instead of using self-reported income, as has been done before, rural households
will be asked 13 questions including on the size o f their operational holdings, type of house, availability o f clothing, food
security, ownership of consumer durables, type of indebtedness, reasons for migration, etc. Their responses to the 13 questions
will be marked on a scale o f 0 to 4, with the total score for each filled questionnaire thus ranging from 0 to 52. States are given
the freedom to decide on the cut-off scores to identify the households as very poor, poor, not so poor and non-poor, subject to the
provision that the total number o f BPL households in each state i s not allowed to exceed the poverty estimates o f the Planning
Commission (based on 1999100 NSS) by more than 10%.


                                                                  26

                                   IV.    THE PROPOSEDCREDITLOAN

A.       Country Assistance Strategy and Rationalefor Adjustment Lending

97.      India CAS Since 1997, the India CAS has included a focus on states undertaking comprehensive
reforms, in order to support the leaders o f change and to serve as a catalyst to the state-level reform
process. With the widening gulf o f the reforming and non-reforming states in India, leading to a
concentration o f poverty and poor social indicators in a few states, the current India CAS [R2004-1701
proposes to go as far as possible in opening up new opportunities for engagement with India's poorest
states, while retaining an essentially reform and performance-based approach to the states. A number o f
steps are beingtaken. First, in consultation with GoI, the Bank i s seelng to ensure that all the largest and
poorest states o f India that so wish are engaged in a dialogue on cross-cutting reforms. Second, the Bank
will work proactively to build a productive development relationshipwith those four states where poverty
i s increasingly concentrated in India and where public institutions are considered to be the weakest
(Bihar, Jharkand, Orissa, and UP). Third, state-level adjustment operations are also expected to remain an
important part o f the Bankprogram. Any such lendingwould be precededby analytic work and technical
assistance would be provided as states implement their comprehensive reformprograms.

98.      All three strategic principles are applicable to the proposed Operation. The additional financing
that the Bank can provide will help ensure that high-priority expenditures are protected rather than
crowded out at a time o f fiscal stress. It also provides financial backing for the state's reform program
and will enable Orissa to finance the direct costs o f reforms as well as to substitute cheaper for costlier
debt. The relatively concessional terms o f Bank assistance would enable Orissa to achieve a more rapid
decline inits debt service burdenthan would otherwise be possible.

99.       Lessons learnt from state reforms Especially since the late 1990s, and in response to fiscal
stress, first a few and by now the majority o f state governments have embarked on fiscal reforms, aimed
not only at reducing deficits but also at expanding the fiscal space for more and better spending inpriority
areas, backedup by an enhancedrevenue mobilization effort. The World Bank has been actively involved
inthe process o f state-refoms since the mid-ninetieswhen the first economic/fiscalreport for a state was
written (for- Orissa). Since then, a total o f nine such reports have been authored by the Bank [Orissa (2),
Rajasthan (2), Andhra Pradesh (2), Uttar Pradesh (l),           Maharashtra (l),    Kamataka (l)]. half-
                                                                                                   Another
dozen state fiscal reports were authored by the National Institute o f Public Finance and Policy (NPFP)
under Bank sponsorship. The Bank i s currently workmg on reports for a few more states, including Tamil
Nadu and Punjab. Apart from reports, the World Bank has provided adjustment lending to three states
(Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka) to assist them with fiscal reforms. The Asian
Development Bank has provided adjustment lending to three states (Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and
Kerala).

100.     Based in part on its experience, the Bank has prepared a draft report on the progress and
remaining challenges with states' fiscal reforms in India.12 This report shows that fiscal              reforms
implemented thus far by states, while showing initial returns, are still a work-in-progress and significant
challenges remain. Some o f the lessons that have so far emerged from the Bank's experience with state-
level reforms include: (i)   the need for a well-identified multi-year reform framework; (ii) importance
                                                                                                  the
o f fully accounting for the fiscal impact o f the power sector's financial performance; (iii)      the need for
institutionalizing the fiscal framework; and (iv) the inadequacy o f fiscal adjustment on its own, and the
needto place it inthe context o f growth and human development.

101.      The Bank's assistance program in Orissa The Bank has a long-standing engagement with
Orissa, and a significant program o f assistance has developed. Inline with the CAS, the Bank's program
(i)scloselyalignedwithGoo'sreformprogram, (ii)isfocusedonpovertyreduction, and(iii)is
     i                                                         it                                           it



l2 INDIA: States FiscalReforms in India-Progress andProspects (ReportNo. 28849-IN), June 17,2004

                                                         27

programmatic in nature, with a sequence o f interventions designed to further govemment reforms and
goals.

        0   Analytical work The Bank's analytical and diagnostic work on the emerging economic and
             fiscal problems o f Orissa began with a first state economic report inAugust 1996,13and was
             followed by an updated economic report in 1999.14 A targeted dialogue on major fiscal and
             administrative reforms began only after the state government's resolve inMarch 2001 to face
             up to the crisis, shown by the issuance of fiscal austerity measures, followed by a
             Memorandum o f Understanding (MoU) with Government o f India (GoI) in June 2001. A
             draft State Financial Accountability Assessment (SFAA) was recently delivered to the
             Government. A variety o f studies have been undertaken by the Bank and DFID to evaluate
             the fiscal and administrative problems o f Orissa, review the regulatory framework, evaluate
             the impact o f reforms on the poor, assess the investment climate, review legal precedents in
             retrenchment, and identify obstacles to faster economic growth. Policy notes were prepared in
             2002-03 by the Bank, and a further series o f policy notes on Orissa i s currently under
             preparation, following up on emerging issues arising from the dialogue between the Bank and
             Orissa. The current work i s focused on profiling poverty, identifying potential sources o f
             accelerated economic growth, and a review o f health sector policy. A State-level Investment
             Climate Survey i s also under preparation.

        0    Investment Lending To support implementation o f various G o 0 initiatives, the World Bank
             has two ongoing state-specific projects (health, and water resources). Finally, the Bank and
             DFIDare supporting several multi-stateor national level programs coveringOrissa, including
             the District Primary Education Program.                    N e w investment lending proposals under
             considerationinclude a state roads project and a poverty reduction project.

        0    Programmatic Adjustment Lending                     A cross-sectoral policy dialogue, supported by
             adjustment lending i s proposed to support Orissa's core fiscal, governance and structural
             reforms. The OSEDLs are envisaged to be a series o f one-tranche loandcredits based on up-
             front structural reforms. They would help provide financial backmg to the State's reform
             program, and protect high-priority development expenditures. Because the pace o f reform
             determines the State's capacity to use resources efficiently, each OSEDL will follow the
             adoption o f reforms and will be based on the need for financing. This approach takes full
             advantage o f the flexibility which the programmatic approach framework offers, with an
             expectation o f annual or biannual loansicredits depending on the pace o f reform and
             financing needs.

102.    DFID Partnership The Banks technical work has been carriedout inclose collaboration with the
UKDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment (DFID),which also has selectedOrissa as one of its focus
states. DFID funds have also been used by the Poverty Task Force to commission specialized studies on
socio-economic and institutional aspects pertaining to poverty reduction programs, Self Help Groups, the
linkages between tribal populations and the forest economy, and the effect o f reduced budgetary
expenditure on growth and poverty. Outside the fiscal/governance (including power sector reform) and
poverty monitoring area, the DFID programme includes work to improve watershed management and
rural livelihood opportunities, better business regulation to promote pro-poor economic growth, and
significant technical and financial support inthe health and primary education sectors.

B.      Loan Objective,Size, Designand Impact

103.     Objective and Rationale.             The objective o f the proposed first Orissa Socio-Economic
Development Loadcredit (OSEDL) i s to support implementation o f critical structural, fiscal and


l3INDIA: Strategy and Options for Fiscal Stabilizationin Orissa (Report No. 15809-IN), August 21, 1996
l4INDIA: Fiscal Reform and Economic Growthin Orissa (Report No. 19234-IN), June 9, 1999

                                                             28

administrative reforms needed to revive economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the
medium term. The easing o f fiscal constraints and improvements in systems of service delivery will,
among other things, enable Orissa to effectively utilize additional project assistance in key sectors in
future years. The justification for the operation rests on GoO's track record of fiscal adjustment since
March 2001, initial expenditure reallocation and efficiency improvements.           In the absence of such
adjustment support, GoO's finances will either remain unsustainable or there will have to be anti-growth
and anti-poor expenditure reductions.

104.     Loan Amount. Commensurate with Orissa's strong fiscal correction program and financing
needs, adjustment support from the Bank i s envisaged to be up to US$700-US$900 million over 4-5
years. It i s envisaged that this support would be in the form o f a series o f four one-tranche operations,
disbursed against upfront actions. The individual size o f each operation i s to be determined at the time o f
negotiations depending on progress with reforms, and consistent with a policy o f backloading. G o 0 i s
also benefiting from Go1support through the Fiscal ReformFacility (Orissa was one o f the first states to
sign the MOU and has received incentive grants for its fiscal performance in the 2000-03 period), and has
benefited fiom a debt restructuring package.
105,     Implementation arrangements. The Chief Secretary o f G o 0 will coordinate the overall reform
program being supported by this operation. The nodal agency for the fiscal and public expenditure
management reforms i s the Finance Department. Guidance and coordination o f administrative reforms are
the responsibility of the Administrative Reforms Cell under the General Administration Department,
assisted by a new unit to be established outside the Government for analytical and technical support.
Under the private sector development component, the Departments o f Energy, Public Enterprises,
Industry and the Agriculture Production Commissioner have primary responsibility for the power sector,
PE reforms, industrial deregulation and agncultural policy reform components respectively.               The
Development Commissioner i s responsible for oversight o f the Poverty Task Force.

106.     Disbursement o f the loadcredit proceeds would not be linked to specific purchases. However,
Go1 would not use the loadcredit proceeds to pay for expenditures included in the Bank's standard
negative list which includes expenditures on military hardware, and environmentally hazardous goods.
Flow o f funds arrangements for the Loadcredit will be finalized at negotiations.

107.     Design. The Policy Matrix at Annex B shows the program inthree phases. Support for the first
phase o f the Orissa program would be extended based on upfront actions taken through August 2004,
which are a subset of the actions shown inthe Policy Matrix and are summarized in Table 7 below. The
second OSEDL would be appraised once G o 0 has met the next set o f agreed milestones, which i s
tentatively envisaged for the summer o f 2005; and the third and fourth OSEDLs could follow during
2005-08. The prior actions for each phase include both specific reform actions and measurable results
with respect to growth-promotion, fiscal adjustment, expenditure reallocation, govemance and power
sector performance.
108.     Fiduciary issues. As outlined in paras 64-66, improving public financial accountability i s a
central part o f the reform program in Orissa and a number o f steps have been taken by Go0 starting in
2002. The Bank has completed a State Financial Accountability Assessment, which concludes that the
fiduciary risk in Orissa i s significant, and sets out recommendations for strengthening the system o f
financial management and accountability. A Development Action Plan in this regard has been finalized
by G o 0 and implementation o fkey components o fthis Action Planis a prior action for OSEDL-11.

109.     The Bank has also initiated a dialogue on ways to improve procurement practices in Orissa.
Initial actions have been taken to improve transparency o f procurement processes and enhance value for
money (paras. 67-68 above), as outlined in Table 7 below. A medium-term action plan for procurement
reform i s to be finalized.
110.     Environmental aspects. The only component o f the operation that has potential environmental
impact i s the privatizatiodclosure o f public enterprises, which is being supported by DFID under a


                                                    29

parallel operation. The state Pollution Control Board monitors adherence by all public and private sector
units to all-India environmental standards on an annual basis, and environmental audits to international
standards have been camed out for selected enterprises, with support from DFD.

111.     Go1 perspective. The Bank's sub-national adjustment lending i s fundamentally a tripartite
endeavor between the Bank, Government o f India and the concerned state. Go1 has reviewed Orissa's
reform program and fiscal framework, and has released three installments o f incentive grants under the
Fiscal ReformFacility, for the state's performance over the past four years.

C.      Prior Actions for the Firstand SecondOperations

112.    The emphasis o f Orissa's reform efforts to date has, o f necessity, been on fiscal correction and
administrative reforms that have major fiscal impact. The milestones for the first operation, OSEDL-I,
reflects this core emphasis. The second operation, OSEDL-11, would be focused on structural reforms,
including major steps towards turning around the power sector, while continuing with fiscal and
governance reforms. The key upfront actions for the first two operations are listed inTable 7. These key
actions are also included inthe Policy Matrix showing Go0 Program in Annex B. All o f the first-phase
milestones have been achieved.

D.       Arrangements for PerformanceMonitoring

113.     G o 0 supports the strengthening o f monitoring and public reporting. The Government has held
workshops on its reforms strategies and plans to finalize its key strategy papers following stakeholder
consultation. The Vision 2020 document will be made publicly available. So will the mediumterm fiscal
framework. The establishment o f a poverty and human development monitoring system will improve the
availability o fpoverty data, and the impact o f G o 0 policies on the poor.

114.     Key monitoring indicators, which will be used to assess progress under the program, and for
preparation o f any subsequent operations, are listed inAnnex D.

E.       Benefitsand Risks

115.     The fiscal, developmental and poverty problems o f Orissa have grown over a number o f years
and will not be resolved overnight. Both the benefits and risks o f the proposed operation are accordingly
high. However, the benefits make the risks worthtaking, with an appropriaterisk mitigation strategy.

Benefits

 116.    The main benefits from a credible and well-implemented economic, fiscal and governance reform
programinOrissa are as follows:
             First,and most important, the private sector-centered economic growth made possible by the
             reforms, along with specific pro-poor measures, would increase opportunities to raise the
              standard o f living for millions inthis poorest o f major Indian states;
             The emergence o f an efficient and viable power sector inthe state that first privatized power
             distribution in India would have a strong demonstration impact on perceptions o f and
             prospects for power sector reform inthe country; and
             The fiscal adjustment, when completed, will move Orissa from extreme and growing
              financial dependence on Go1to fiscal sustainability, with a more developmental composition
             of expenditure and better capacity to finance well-designed investments.



                                                       30

                                 Table 7: Prior Actions for OSEDL-Iand Indicative Actions for OSEDL-II
Milestones for OSEDL-I (by August 2004)                                       1Indicative Milestones for OSEDL-II
Growth-enhancing reforms
Adoption of "new industrial policy", and implementation of first set of        Implement further measures to rationalize regulation of entry of
administrative measures in line with the policy, including adopting            private investors, including reduction in number of application forms
measures to improve the labor inspection regime, and introducing               from 16 to 2; and introduce Industrial Facilitation Bill to establish a
transparent and standard rates for allotment of government land.               Sing e W naow Clearance system
Continued progress with (non-power) Public Enterprise reforms,                  ntroaJce amenament io ine Orssa Aqricu.tural ProaLce Marrters
including closure of 10 unviable enterprises, separation of over 25,000        Act so as to lift state monopoly and enable private investment in
employees under the voluntary retirement scheme, initiation of                 marketing yards and storage facilities. Continued progress with
restructuring plans for 3 key enterprises, and initiation of privatization of  implementation of (non-power) Public Enterprise reforms, including
10 enterprises, including completion of the privatization process for one      privatizationldivestment of at least 2 additional units,
of these.
Initiate a consultative process with state level public and private            Establish a credible mechanism to ensure timely and full payment of
stakeholders in the power sector with a view to developing an agreed           current electricity bills by both state and local governments; Finalize
Business Plan to achieve financial viability in the sector over the            and publish the Business Plan and begin implementation;
medium term; also, ensure payment of current electricity bills by state        operationalize measures to curb theft.
government departments, of at least 95% of billing in Jan-Mar 2004
(compared to 88% in the same quarter of previous year)
Fiscal reforms and expenditure policy
Table in the State Legislature a Medium-Term Fiscal Reform                     Table in the State Legislature a Fiscal Responsibility Bill. Execution
Framework for 2003-08 that targets a primary surplus of over 2% of             of the 2004105 budget, and budget targets for 2005106to be
GSDP and overall fiscal deficit (net borrowing) of less than 3.5% by           consistent with the Medium-Term Fiscal Reform Framework.
2007108. Primary deficit reduced from Rs. 25 billion (6.5% of GSDP) in         Primary deficit targeted to decline reduced to below 0.5% of GSDP
I999100 to less than Rs. 7 billion (15%of GSDP) in 2002103 and                 in the revised estimates for 2004105.
estimated Rs. 6.7 billion in 2003104 (1.4% of GSDP); overall fiscal
deficit reduced from 9.7% of GSDP in 1999-00 to an estimated 8.3% in
2003104 (figures for 2003104 exclude one-time impact of securitization
of power dues).
Reduce the ratio of salaries to state's own revenues from over 160% in         Reduce the ratio of salaries to the state's own revenue further to
 1998199 and I999100 to an estimated 99% in 2003104; and the ratio of          96% in the revised estimates for 2004105. Continue to decrease the
salary plus pension to state's own revenue plus mandated transfers             ratio of revenue balance to revenue receipts to below -18% in
from 110% in 1999-00 to an estimated 72% in 2003104.                           2004105. Reduce the ratio of consolidated debt to revenue receipts
                                                                               from an estimated 354% in 2003104 to 344% in 2004105.
 Public expenditure management and governance reforms
 Progress in prioritization of public spending through the implementation      Annual Plan 2004105 to aim at enhancing development outcomes,
of the findings of Zero-Based Investment Reviews, including closure of         with a fully funded State Plan; Improved utilization of centrally
83 schemes and completion of 41 selected high-priority infrastructure          financed and co-financed schemes and completion of at least 25
 investment schemes during 2002103 and 2003104.                                high-priority infrastructure investment schemes in 2004105.

 Government approval of a Development Action Plan to strengthen the             Begin implementation of Action Plan to strengthen further public
 system of financial accountability in the state, based on the findings of     financial accountability, including enhancing financial information
 a State Financial Accountability Assessment; issue Government Order            published in budget documents. Anti-corruption action plan,
 to post on the website tenders and bid documents for works costing in          covering measures to strengthen prevention, enforcement and
 excess of Rs. 5 million, stipulate maximum time for scrutiny of tenders,       public awareness to be finalized by GOO.
 and provide incentives for timely completion of works.
 Initiate implementation of civil selvice reform by: (i) separation of at       Continue implementation of civil service reform by: i) Pilot a Human
 least 10% of 36,000templcasual staff (ii) freeze in recruitment, with          Resource Management Information System in Education
 exceptions for demonstrated needs in socially-essential areas; and (iii)       department; (ii) further reduction on the salary bill for temporary
 redeployment of 1200 regular employees from surplus to deficient              workers over 03104 figures; (iii) 75% of vacant regular posts at entry
 departmentslfunctions.                                                         level identified and eliminated (except for freeze exempted posts);
                                                                                and (iv) maintenance of recruitment freeze with selected exceptions.
 Human Development
 Issue Government Order to release grants-in-aid only on the basis of           Finalize reorganization action plan along the lines of the
 certification that the schoollcollege qualifies.                               Organizational Review of the Department of Education and
                                                                                implement its first phase including abolition of non-essential
                                                                                administrative posts and redeployment of qualified staff to head
                                                                                teacher posts.
 Government approval and publication of a Health Sector Strategy that           Implement first phase of reorganization of the Department of Health,
 identifies priority health outcomes; approval of a Drug Management             along the lines of Organizational Review. Progress in implementing
 Policy for improving procurement of drugs on the essential drugs list          the drug management policy.
 and for framing of standard treatment guidelines.

                                                                            31

117.   Poverty impact. The reforms supported under Operation, and more broadly under the State's
reformprogram, are expected to make a significant contribution to reducingpoverty. Specifically:

       Orissa's fiscal reforms will enable a greater share o f resources to be focused on poverty-related
       expenditures. The MTFRF seeks to reorient public spending towards high-priority developmental
       spending (social sector spending, non-wage O&M, capital spending) that will provide primary
       education, health, basic social and infrastructural service to the poor, including support for
       improved agricultural performance.
       Orissa's structural reforms seek to enable private sector led growth o f markets for agncultural
       produce, and improve the investment climate by easing the regulatory burden on the private
        sector. This will enhance economic growth and generate more jobs. The governance reforms
       would reduce corruption and harassment, whichtends to hurtthe poor disproportionately.
        The comprehensive poverty and human development monitoring system (PHDMS, explained in
       para 91 above) will help the state take account o f actual progress to reorient policy towards the
       Millennium Development Goals.
       Negative impacts on displaced workers through the public enterprise reforms are being mitigated,
        including through severance packages, counseling and relocation guidance.
        Introduction o f joint (husband and wife) land titling will improve woman's position in the
        household.
        Reallocation o f education expenditures away from wasteful grants-in-aid to highpriority areas in
        education, use o f para-teaches, and devolution o f school supervision to elected school education
        committees will improve education outcomes for everyone, including the poor.

Risks and their Mitigation

118.    Inthe lagging states such as Orissa, with a highconcentration of India's poor, potential benefits
of reform are high but so are the risks.       The main risks specific to Orissa include political risk,
vulnerability to natural shocks, and limited administrative capacity. The nature o f these risks and the
corresponding mitigation strategy i s as follows:
      Political Risk. As the reform program involves some measures that would affect entrenched
       interests that benefit from the status quo, there i s significant risk o f reforms being undermined as a
      result o f political opposition or `backlash'.    This risk is being mitigated by building a public
       consensus through broad consultations with civil society. It i s also being mitigated by agreeing on
       firm targets for reducing the relative fiscal burden o f the salary bill, while leaving the mix o f
       measures to achieve this target at the discretion o f the state authorities.
       Vulnerability to Natural Shocks. Poor economic performance as a result o f drought, floods or
       other natural disasters could undermine the fiscal correction. This risk i s being mitigated by
       basing the MTFRF on a conservative assumption o f GSDP growth, at about 3% on average during
       2002-07, even though faster growth is likely, and the five-year plantargets an ambitious 6.5%.
       Limited Administrative Capacity. Addressing capacity constraints and issues o f skill mix in the
       civil service i s one o f the explicit components o f the civil service & administrative reforms
       program. Inaddition, capacity constraints are also addressed by substantial and focused technical
       assistance provided by the Bank and by DFID (Annex F). Such assistance has facilitated the use
       by G o 0 o f experts from other reforming Indian states; most o f the short-term consultants for the
       preparation o f the proposedoperation have been chosen inthis manner, with excellent results.
       Coordination with GoL The success o f the program will require continued Go1support in terms
       of central transfers and debt restructuring/swaps. T o mitigate these coordination risks, the Bank
       has interacted closely with Go1 and will continue to do so as part o f program supervision and
       preparation o f subsequent operations.

                                                      32

                    Annex A
                  Page 1 of 11




Enck af above.

                                                                                                                      Annex A
                                                                                                                  Page2of11




                       6
SHRl PRATIP K, MOHANTY                                                                     E.mad-csori r7ort.nic.in
      Chief Secretary and                                                                  Oflice : 253a300. 2536700
Chief Development Commissioner                                                             PABX   '               2196
                                                                                                              2536660
                 Orissa                                                                 \   Res.   ,2534400, 2534000

                                                                               D.0. No....2qJ.p-,...*..*..
                                                                                         l.




        Dear   de+,
                                Letter 01 Oevelopment Policy af Governmentof Otissa

                  The Govemmenlof Orissa has been continuinga dialogue with the Worid Bank and DFlD to
        put logether a package of assistance under the rubric Orissa Saclo-Economic Development Credr!
        (OSEDC), to support the State's ongoing efforts at undertakinga majorfiscal correction,accompanied
        by govemam and economic policy reforms The aim is lo put the macro finances on a sustainabte
        equilibrium path as well as remove the impediments in critical areas of service dellvety so as lo
        increase the pace of development which would, in turn, have a signifcant impact on poverty
        alleviation. Thus this package of assistance would have the twin objective of achieving bcd
        correcbonand accelerating economic growth and social development.The Stale feels that correction
        of fiscal imbalance a prerequisiteto acce\erategrowthaswelt as to redw;e and removepovefly
                           is
                   Compared with rest of India, Orissa is facing a serious development imbalance. If one
        compares some of the major social and economic indicators, ilwould be amply evident that Onssa
        has a lot of caUiing up to do even lo reach the nationalaverage, letalone achieve the levelsof olher
        developed states. An important wial indicator which reflects Ihe quality of life is infant moriality
        Infantmortalityd e in Onssa is 90/1000 againstthe all India average of 6011000 Average life span in
        Onssa honly 57 years when compared to SD years in restof h e country, Similarty, n other indicators
        like literacy,school enrolment and availabilityof safe dnnking water Orissa has lagged behind the mst
        of the country. Even in economic indicatorslike per capita income, families below poverly line, power
        consumpton, prcductruty inagriculture,Orissacomparasunfawdutably wlth the rest of lndm Notonly
         are the social and economic indiators lower than rest of the country, but there has been further
        divergence between Orissa and other states over the years For example, the gap between the per-
        capita income of Orissaand resi of the country was R5.8401- in 1991. This has widened to Rs 46491-
         in 200142. Thus there IS an unquestionable need lo increase the pace of development 50 that the
         State can meaningfullytackle the problem olthe large incidenceof poverly
                   The State has not beenable to effectively tackle the problemof poverly because of the lack
         of resources caused by the extreme fiscal stress, The State is facing senous !ism\ imbalance
         characterizedby, (1) large revenuedeficit, (2) large fiscal deficit and (3) unsustainabledebt level The
         revenuedeficitwas of Iheorder Of.%     of GSOPand fiscal deficrt ol8.6% GSDP in the 2000-01 These
         ratios have been brought down to 36% and 6 4% in 2002-03. But these are unsustainable levels,
         without correction of which Ihe State cannot achieve macro equilibrium, whiih is a prerequisite for
         acceleratedgrowth Over the years the borrowing of the State has Increasedsubstantially In 2001-02
         revenue defEit was i l X of the fiscal deficlt indKatingthe degree to which Ihe Slate was borrowing
                                                       -
         to finance recumngcusk
         If we took at the development of the State Finances over recent decades, in 1980-81the State had
         marginaf surplus under revenue account In 1990-91 the revenue account was breaking even and
         hwn 2000-01 there has been rapid increase in revenue dekit To appreciate the seriousness of the
         fiscal problem it may be seen hat salary, pensm and interest Irability together IS more than the
         revenue slream availabb lor the State Because of the senous stress on finances,the Slate has had
         to conbnmusly borrow to meet a growng part of the revenue expenditure Because of the large
         quantum of bomwing the Stale has accumulated a large debt stock and the resutling debt sewing
         liability has become unsustainable The total deb4 of !he State is around 60% of GSDP The debt
         service is around 50%of the revenue receipt Becauseof the senous fiscal imbalance the finances of

                                                                                                           Annex A
                                                                                                       Page 3 of 11




   I                                                        2


        the State are under canbnuous stress resullrng in chronc liquidity problem The senots fiscal stress
        has direct effecton economic growthand social development After meebng the day-today needsof
        running the government and sewicing its debt and petxioncommilments,there are no resoues lefl
        for developmental needs
                 Taking info account the severe fiscal problem the SIate is facing, a Whde Paper on State
        Finances was brought out by the Government in 2001 to correct the structural problem TQ quote,
        'The State finances has aiready reacheda CIISIS point           If the pdicres and the straleg)es so far
        fdlowed continue io be pun&          unchanged, all the resourcesgeneratedwould be used up in debt
        s e w n g and unpmductweexpenditurewithlritle or no moneyieff to fake up any developmenfalwork
        gwodhqthe senwsiws of fhe probiem and cOI*Bctlve measwes needed fo be taken W& his
                   name, Hence B detailed discussron and public debale axe absolutely necessary on the
          r a   and
        objecbve in view the State Govemmenf have decrded to place the facts before ftre people thorough
        this W?tgePaper ft IS hopedthat this Paperwill badto a heatthydiscussmnon the fnfensqof poveffy
        and fiscal SrtuaOon in Orissa and help to budd consensus on the corrective measures to take the
        economy to the pathofsustmed highgrow#           *
                 The Stateenteredintoan agreementwrth Govemmentof India in October2001 to implement
        a programme of structuralfiscalcorrection Politicalsustainability of the reform processrequires that
        the fiscal Correcbve measures are accompanied by other growthenhancing and directly poverty
        reducingmeasures
                  Immediate assistance is required to reinforce correction in macro finances, improve tfie
        quality of fiscalcorrectionas well as to take care of the up-frontcost of wme of the reforms It IS in
        this context that Govemment of Onssa         IS requesting Government of India to propose the Onssa
        Socio-EconomrcDevelopmentCredit(OSEDC) to WoM Bank and DFlD

        Strategy
                  GoOs strategy to accelerateeconomic growth and reduce! poverty is articulated in its Tenth
        Five Year Plan, and in its draft 'Vision 2020", which IS currently under preparahon At the core of the
I       wion and sirategy are (I) ~ffortsto epccunge pw& sector growth in sectm where Dnssa has
        strategic comparative advantages (tourism, mineral processing, hortvculture, marine products. high
        quality rice, handicrafts,etc.). (11)efforts to strengthen integrabon between regions of the state and
        with the rest of the world, and (is) efforls to enhance the quantity and quality of public investmentin
        humanand social capitalso that the benefitsof incomegrowthare more equitablydistributed ban in
        the past The twin objecbves are to increase per capda income- narrowingthe gap betweenOnssa
        and the nationalaverage-and to improveitsdistnbutionacrossthe poputabon.
                  With the goals of acceleratingeconomic growthto 6% 6 5% per year, reducingpovertyby 7
                                                                           -
        petcentage pints during 2002-07 and by 15 percentage points dunng 2008-12, the State's
        development strategy would bcus on improving the effusncy of public investmentand creating an
        enabling policy framework to improve the climate for pnvate investment Translatingthese objectives
        into complete and effective action will be no small task Some of the key reforms to revitaiise the
        economy alongsidethe continuahonof stabilizationand fiscalempowerment, are indicated below
                  An enabling policy framework to improve the State's investmentclimate and expand income
                  generating opportunities parttcularlyfor the p r -through simplification of regulatoryregime
                  with legal backing,lhng state monopolyover agncuftuialmarkets,etc ,
                  Successful complehon of second generation reforms in the Power Sector, to ensure
                  sustainable adequate and affordable power supply to support the economic growth
                  objecbves
                  Restructuring of     !he     largely loss making Public Enterprise Sector, through
                  divestmenVsaieiclosures;
                  Improving rural connecbvrty and expanding irngation with emphasis on ground water and
                  walersneddevelopment programs, backed by reallocatronof resourcesin the budget,

                                                                                             Annex A
                                                                                          Page 4 o f 11




                                                    3


     * Strengtheningthe socialsectors, induding promotionof rural/ tribalI female literacy, better
         health for all, safe drinking water supply, food security and other social safety net
         programmes     - through the functional rewganizalion of major departments and effective
         decentralizationof servicedeliveryto electedtoea1bodies andother localgroups;
         Mobilizing and enabling village women and the poor to participate in and benefit from
         economic growth, including through self-kip groups and Pani Panchayats (Water User
         Associations); and
     +   Public Expenditure Management and Administrative Reforms (oudined in the White Paper
         published in November 2002) which focus on improved medium-termplanning and annual
         budget formulation, budget execution, cash and debt management, alongside an outcome
         orientedrightsizingof the bureaucracyand improving the deliveryof puMicservices,

Growth Enhancins Reforms
Agriculture :
         Ortssa is primarily an agrarian economy with a contribution of around 30% to Net State
Domestic Product. Neariy 87% of the population live inthe rural areas and productivity and income
from agricutural adivity is extremely crucial br the economic weif-being of the people of the state.
Some of the d-ellenging issues in agriculture ate extreme fluctuations in agricultural production
ranging from 66 lakh tones of food grain production in 1997-98 to 49 lakh tones in 2000-01,
exemplifying the fact that agricultural production is substantially affected by natural calamities,
especialiy drought. Another challenge is the per capita availabilityof cultivabk land, which was 0.39
hedare in 1950-53 and has dedined to 0.19 hectare in 1993-94, on account of the increase in
population Another challenge facing agriculture is the stagnant productivityinthe sector. Not only is
the produdivitylow comparedto the nationalaverage, spatial differences in productivityare acute and
the poorer and drought-prone districts have significantly inferior produdity in agncutture. The
development strategy of the State in agriculture is aimed at achieving diversification of m p s and
growth of a dynamic agmgocessing sector, genefating ruralemploymentand alleviatingpoverty.We
strategy would alsu encompass creating a sustainable irrigationsystem with active user participation
in management, improved marketing and connectivity, higher effiaency of public investment and
greater security andtenure for tribalandpoor cultivators.
          In recognitionof preponderant public invesZment in large-scalesurface irrigation projects in
the past, Goo's Tenth Five-Year Plan (200247) and Budget for 2003104 have initiated a trend
towards more balanceduse of ground and surface water. A new project has also been introducedto
improve imgabon management and encuurage investments in groundwater irrigation by individual
farmers, 01by water user assodahms (paani panchayats), with a one-ttmecapaal subidy from the
budget. Go0 has atso introduced joint spouse titling of land, thereby enhancing the status and
security of women within the family. Computerizationof land remrds has been taken up by one third
of alltehsils,with significant reductins intransadw costs.
          Fuhrre initiatives to further raise agricultural productivity include the creation of appropriate
institutional arrangements, including a legal framework, for land teasing          -  to ensure adequate
safeguardsfor bothtenants andlandowners, anda0 attract private investmentin agricultureand allied
sectors. We also plan to amend the Agricultural Products Marketing Act, to facilitate private
investment to complement the state's investmentm marketing yards and storage facilitiesfor farmers
in Orissa.

Regulatory Frameworkfor Prjvate Enterprise:
          Promotingprivate enterpriseand makingthe State attractivefor privateinvestmentwould be
one of the key elements in promotinggrovinh and employment generation and consequently poverty
reduction in the State. While the State has an abundance of mineral resources, other favourable
factors like long coastline, disdplined labour force, Wvourable law & order situation dc.,the overall
privateinvestmentof the State has been negligible. With the openingof economy, domestic 3swell as

                                                                                                 Annex A
                                                                                            Page 5 of 11




                                                    4


foreign investmanthavegravitated to other states which are already well developed in infrastructure
and humancapital, Onssa has not beenable to get the advantage of market and trade liberalizatm.
One of the objecbves of OSEE would be to support changes in the regulatoryframeworkfor private
enterprise,to makethe State a prefenedinvestmentdestrnatiinfor privateentrepreneurs
          GoO hascommitteditself to reducing transaction costs on the pnvatesectw through its new
Industrial Policy Resolution (IPR-2001), whlch represents a marked shift From the earliir policy of
control and micro-regulation.The IPR-2001 entails. among other things: (i) seledive streamlining of
laws and procedures;(ii) facilitatingan effective 'single point contad by ensuring buy-inof all relevant
govemment departments and necessary delegabon of powers; and (iii) stntngthening government
capacrty lo discfiargeItsregulatoryroleina momtransparent and effective manner
          Followingthe adoption of the IPR-2001, the thrust of the State's efforts to improve business
environmenthas beenon reducingbureaucraticinterference and providinggreatertransparency Over
the mediumterm, Go0 plans to implementboth overarching policy and pfooeduralchanges, affecting
all sectors of private business activity in the state, as well as Focus on spedfic subsectors with
maximumgrowthand employmentpotential. Some specific changesto besupportedby OSEE are

          lntroductianOr an IndustrialFacilitation Billto establisha singlewindowclearance systemfor
          industrialinvestments(expectedin 2004);
          Redudon in the numberof applicationfarms from 16 to 2 (expectedin '2004); and
          Develapment of Action mans for key sectom in which the State has annparative
          advantagebasedon investment climate studks (already initiated with BanWDFID support)
          and sector-specificpolicyreviews.

Public EnterpriseReforms:
          Onssa is a leader among Indian states in public enterprises reform, which is a key
componentof the mediumtem strategy of the Govemment.. The objectiveof publicsector reformsis
to release resources for priority development programs, by withdrawal of the state from commemal
activities, and by inmasing efficiency in those enterpnses that remain with Ihestaie. The budgetary
support for PSUswouM be progressivelyreducedso that therewifl becomplete stoppageof outilowof
public resourcefor PSUs, startingimmediatelywith the unviableones.
          A significant achievement has been the closure of 10 unviableenterprises and separation of
over 15,000employees(or about onefourth of tlwstt empioyed in non-powerpublicenterprises) under
a cost-effective Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)%with 30% finding reemployment tftrough
 counseling. Restructuringof a number of the large non-power public enterprises (Orissa State Road
Transport Corporation,Orissa State FinanaalCarpcrration,Orissa Lift lnigatin Company, and Onssa
 Seed Corporation) has also made signifmnt progress, with restructuring plans approved by the
 Government,andorganizationalrestructuringthroughVRS has commenced.
           The strategy under OSEDC wouM be to further maintain and accelerate the process, wrih
 divestmentlsaleof an addhnal5 enterprises in 2004.05 and completion of the programmeby 2006-
 07.

 Power Sector
           Orissa was a pioneer in India in Power Sector Reforms,which were initiated Lo address the
 inherent inefficiency of the erstwhile Government monopoly in power generation, distnbutlon and
transmrssion, namely.the Orissa State Electricity Board. The reform centered around unbundling of
 generation, transmission and distnbutjon and estabiishment of an independent regulator for power
 supply standards and tanff. Eventhough the reforms in the power sector has run for over five years,
 and the distnbutian companies are currently covering their power purchase wsts with their tanff
 collections, they continue to bear heavy debt serviang burden. As a result, the sector has not yet
 turned aroundinfinancial terms

                                                                                          Annex A
                                                                                      Page 6 of 11




                                                  5


         Orissa is nowgrappling with the second generationof power sector reforms. A key objective
of the Government's reform programme is to provide continuing guidance and support for
operationally and Faancially tuming around the power sector, whicb is critical for economic growth.
The OSEDCenvisages assistanceto cover v.le transitional costs in !he sedor, onthe basisof agreed
pf?fformanceindicators, so as to achieve the reform objectives originally envisaged for the sedor.
Some of the key action points are: (i) preparationof business planfor the sedor (pmcess has been
initiatedand two rounds of mnsuitationsorganized by GoO with all the stake-holdersincludingWorld
Bank and DFID): (ii)implementationof mu& year tariff (expededEn 2004-05); (iii)further extensionof
rum! electrification;(N)  inweased rural and urban access to viable power supply (medium-term
objective), and(v) achievementof financialviabilityof thesector (by2007-08).

Fiscal Rdorm
         The principalobjectives of the fiscal reform programmeare to bring down defldts and debt
to a sustainabk path and at the same time improvethe composition and quality of puMic spending.
Currently, the State's finances suffer from a deep disequilibrium, with committed recurringcosts pre-
empting too largea shareaf available r w u m s , andoutstandingdebt at 63% of GSDP.The reforms
are required, not only to restore creditwofthiness but also to mate fiscal space for strengthening
developmental interventionsandinitiatives.
         The State has been reasonably successful in impiementjng revenue enhancing measures,
which have swmedd in raising the buoyancy of the state's own taxes It has had more limited
success so far with non-tawrevenues and in controllingand rationaliing expenditures, both of Wttich
posea moredifficdtchallenge. The measuresalready implemented, during2001-2004, include:

         tax reform measures in areas such as sales tax, motor vehides tax, exdse tax, etc,        -
         includingrate rationalizationand administrativesimplificabon;
         adjustments to user charges for irrigation water, higher and professional education and
         specialized hospitalservices;
         zero-based investmentreviewsto improvefne producfwityof capitalexpendiiures;
      0  tight controlon salary expenditure throughrationalizationof benefits (e.@leaveencashment),
         recruitment freeze with limitedexemptions,ahlition of over 23,000 vacant posts
      * separationof 4000 employeesof Orissa Lift lmgation Corporation through VRS I VS5 and
      * introductionof long term debt sustainabrlity program by creatingguaranteeredemptionfund
         consequent reductioninthe quantumof suWidy; and

         and consolidatedsinkingfund.
         These measures have resulted in some improvement in the fiscal indicators The Primary
Revenue Balance,for instance, ha5 been conwed from a deficit of Rs. 1336 mrein 1999-00 to a
small surplus in 2002-03. The ratio of Ute State's Own Revenue to Non-Interest Committed
Expenditures (Salaries,Granb-in-Aidof Salary and Pension)has been raised from 53%to 72% inthe
same period.
         The details of the fiscal correction programme have been expbined in the Orissa Medium
Tem Fiscal Framework, 2003-08. As mentioned, an importantobjective of OSEDC is to enable the
State to deepen and institutionalizethe fiscal reforms, as well as to Rnance the cost of some of the
r e f o mdunng the interim M o d .
         While Govwnmentof Orissais seekingthefirst installmentof the OSEDC as awell-deserved
reward for the fiscal correctionalready achieved, we seek fo use the subsequent installments in the
proposeds s k under OSEDCto strengthenthe fiscal correctionin a numberof ways, including:

         formulation and introduction of a Fiscal Responsibitity Bill that is suitable to the state
         (expectedin2004-05);
         Strengthenngof revenueadministrationand introductbnof VAT,

                                                                                             Annex A
                                                                                         Page7of11




                                                 8


         Readentationof the Annual Ran {starting in 200445) towards maximirationof development
         outcomes, and away from maximizationof size of an inadequatelyfunded 'State Pian';
         Measures to ensure fuli utilization of central and external reswms available for
         universalmation of elementary education, and for other priority soaal sector programs
         (startingin2004-05);
         Measures to rationalhe grants-in-aid to coileges and high schools,so as to limit total outflow
         and to link grants ~8theducational outcomes {initiated in 2003-04 and to be pursuedfurther}:
         and
         Measures to bring down the debt servicing burden of the state by using a part of the
         mcessional funds under OSEDC to prepay old expensive debt.

         In addition to the above-mentioned measures, the OSEE wouM aiso enable the State to
more successfuiiy control the growth of salary expenditures, by successfully implementing the right-
sizing program,which is explainedfurther underthe sectionon Governance Reforms, below.
         By the year 2007-08, the Government of Otissa aims to raise the ratio of the State's Ow
Revenueto its Non-lnterest CommittedRevenueExpenditureto about 95%, ascompared with 72% in
2002-03 and 53% in 1999-00. Along witti a reasonable increase assumed in tax devolution and
grantsfrom the Governmentof India,the Pnmary (Non-Interest) Fiscal Defiit of Qrissa is projectedto
be turned into a surplus of at least 1.5% of GSDP. Achievement of (a)reducing overall Fiscal M c i t
to 3% of GSDPand (b) elimination of RevenueDefiat wouM depend on additional support from the
                                                       -
Government of India, espeaally for debt restructuring. Depending on the award of the Tweltlh
FinanceCommission, these two targets may be pcssible by 2007-08, of may need one or two years
m e to achieve.

Govemance Reforms
         A key development challenge for Orissa is to improve the quality of governance to improve
&ce     delivery and to bring about inclusive human development and poverty reduction. A principal
objective dthe refomprogrammeki therefore to support improvements in the nature of govemance
in Orissa, including     the manner in which govemment delivers its functions. Enhancing the
performance of government through redefiningits roles arid functions, impraving the managementof
public expenditure, supporting measures to improve transparency and acmntability, including
administrative and financial devolution to iocal bodies, are key components of our programme.
Towards this end, Government have adopted a policy framework and action plan, formulated in the
November 2002 White Paper on Public Expenditure Management & Administrabve Reforms, This
renewedfocus on governance has resulted ina numkr of reforms overthe last two years

ExpenditureManagement
         Zero based investment reviews have been undertaken in support of improved management
of public resources, focused on better pnoritsation of limited resourcesfor infrastructureinvestment.
This has resulted in completion of important investments. in addition, GOOhas conducted a State
Financtal Accountability Assessment that has examined              areas of vulnerability in financial
management and suggested institutionalreforms. Government have approved a Development Adion
Planfo slrengthening financialmanagementa& amuntability.


Civil Service Reforms
         The White paper on Administrative reforms recognized that Mssa coufd no longer support
the expanding cost of govemmnt. The aim of dvil service reforms is to right-size and modernize
government in order to improve producttvity and performance, while at the Same hrne substantially
reduce the cost ai governance by prudent management. With this in mind, the following steps have
been taken:

                                                                                              Annex A
                                                                                          Page 8 of 11




                                                  7



    0   Organizatiinal Reviews have k        n conducted in SIX departments including Forest 8
        Environment Department, School & Mass Educabwr Oepaibnent, Health & Family Welfare
        Department, Panchayati Raj Department, Transport Department and the Commercial Tax
        Department.On the basis of the organizationalreview of the Forest Dcpat?ment, the existing
        field formatin with its parallel structures, overlapping jurisdictions, duplication of functrons,
        sub-optimal uiilisationof staff,and lack of community' mentation, has been reorganized, rn
        Itne n t h the needs of managing forest resources of the Stale in an efficient, equitable and
        sustainable manner. Similar reorganizabon exercises am slated to begin in MassEducahon
        and Healthdepartmentsin 2004-05.
        24220 vacant posts have b n abolished as on 01.07.2004 (Group A - 599 + Group 8 - 980
        + Group C . 13055 + Group D - 9586). A total ban on recruitment has been imposed
        exceptjng in areas like pnmaryeducation, healthand poke
    4   VRS forgovemment employees has been introducedvide Finance Department resdution no
        Pen.- 81200314481/Fdated 27.01.2003

ImprovedServiceDelivery, Transparency and Accountability
        The Governmentof Orissa has taken a number of steps to improve sewm delivery through
expanding participation and voice in governance, and through computemation. Key are% of reform
include

        Computensation of Land Records, Registrations, Transports and Motor Vehicle Tax 8
        Commercial Tax offices, to improveclient servm.
        Establishment of 10600 Pani Panchayais (Water Users Associations) covering 8.79 lakh
        hectares and handing over of the maintenanceof imgation work to 8013 Pani Panchayats
        covering 5 63 lakh hectares.
     m  Establishmentof 1950Watershed Mission t BhumiPanchayatsfor integrated soil and water
         consewaim and livelinood management and the establlshment of 7002 Vanasarankhan
         SamiBs for protectionof Forestsaswell as Community useof ForestPrcduce
        Establishment of 119994 self-help groups as a part of "Mission Shakti - Women's
         Empowermenthave k e n established
     a  Establtshrnent of Zira Swastha Sanities (in Health) and Village EducationCommittees. for
        controland appointmentof Pnmary School Teachers
     a  Devolutionof powers and functions to P R.1 s

        The Government of Onssa wishes to expand and consolidate govemance reforms in these
core areas in the coming years With this in mind Go0 intends to take forward further reforms to
improve governance and service delivery

Administrative and Civil Service Reform Further admimstrabve reform focusing on reorganization
of at least two major service delivery departments ( Health and Educabon) and an nght - siang
govemment staffing Allied to this the Govemment wrshes to focus on human resource management
aimed ai rationaliangthe systems of transfersand focusing on productivity and performance This will
be accompanied by investments in capacity buiMing Lo bnng about the necessary attitudinalchange
amongst oficiafsfor responsiveand crbzen fnendly govemment

Anti -  Corruption      Recognising that corruption most affmts the poorest, the govemment IS
committed to take forward antr-corruption initiabves including strengthening the functions of
enforcement preventlon and public awareness Suppang grievance redressal mechanisms and

                                                                                           Annex A
                                                                                        Page 9 of 11




                                                   8


citizenscharters IS a key component of the reform program.Continuinginvestment incomputerization
in support of e-governancewill alsobe centralto theseefforts.

Human DevelopmentandMQnitoringImpact onthe Poor
          The State believes that human capitaldevelopment,through educationand health care, ts
the key to overan social deveiopment. While the fiscal m d i o n is aimed at creating space for
enhancing resources for priority SOcial services, Government of Odssa reoognizes the need to
improve the quality and effectiveness of these services, io justify abating them a greater share of
scarce public resources. The emphasis in the immediatefuture (Le., in 200405) would therefore be
on (I)functionalreorganizationof the school educationand heathdepartments; and (ii) reprioritization
of resourceswithin these departmentstowards achievingthe pnorityoutcomes.

Education
sabelowtheNationalAverageandfurtherinvestmentswillhavetobemadeinthefeldofelementary
           While the Statehas beenable to increaseliteracyfrom 15.8%in 1951to 63% in2001,this is

education, Universalisationof Elementary Educationhas been adopted as one of t k mponents of
basic minimum services. The strategy of State Gavemment would be to (i) kverage maximum
passlble additionalmsourcesforthe universalisationof Elementary Educationand literacy, and(ii) cap
the subsidies to higher and secondary levd education and strengthen their linkage to perfomance
andeducatiaslaf outcomes.       .
           RefQrrn measures will address efficient use of available human resources in the &or.
Startingin x#)4-05, Governmentwill carry out reorganbationof the Department of School and Mass
Education    -so   as to abolish non-essential administrativepostsand re-deployqualifiedstaffto vacant
headteacherposts, as well as strengthen capacity of distrid and Modc level staff and headteachers
to provide academic suppat to schools for improving the quality of education,While educetion is a
crucial area in enhancing grwh as well as improvingoaet social indicators, the challenge is to
maximize the retums on state investment. In order to achieve this as well as to keep the macro-
flnances in equilibrium budgetary provision under grant-in-aid will be frozen in the short term and
eligibility criteria in terms of defined performanceindicators will bthe base of budgetary provisionof
grant-in-aid.

 Health
           The populationof Orissahas one of the highestburdens of disease, mainly due to infectious
disease and under-nutrition. The highest inddence is among children under 5 years and women,
particularly in rural areas      Approximalely onequarter of public expenditure is on primarycare and
onequarter on public health Absence of critical personnel as well as lack of functioning equipment
 and adequate drug supply have contributedto ineffedivepublic spending in health. Accordingly, the
 populationreliesto a significantextent on privateproviders.Since poverty is so wide spread, majority
of populationwill haveto bepmvidedhealth carethroughgovemment delivery mechanism.
           A new Health Sectw Strategy, based on identifition of priority health outcomes and
 effecbve pubkc-private partnership, was approved by the Cabinet on 1 February 2003, Recent
 initiatives induding measuresto retainstaff inpost andreduce vacancies; introductiond usercharges
 at tettiary and secondary hospitals; devotution of somebuilding maintenancedecisions; establishinga
 communicablediseasesurveillancesystem; and the launchingof an infantmortalityreductionmission
 In addition, we have established a new policy for drug procurement and distribution, With stnngent
 quality checks and computerlzed inventory management with online connection between all district
 and state warehouses. Success has beenachieved in making all essential drugs available in 85% of
 pnmary healthcenters
           The Government intends to take the following steps in the near future, with technical
assistanceand5uppoFtunderthe OSEDC:

                                                                                             Annex A
                                                                                       Page 10 of 11




                                                      9


            Implementfirst phaseofreorganizationof the Departmentof Health,alongthe linesof the
           Organizational Review;
     * Rewewthe performanceof central and statesponsoredschemes inachievingprioritytargets
            includingreductionof InfantMortagtyRate, and
     *      DevelopandinitiateimplementationofAction Planto improvepriorlty health outcomes
           identifedinthe HealthSectorStrategy.

Poverty Monitoring
           Compared to rest of India, the incidence of extreme poverty is most glaring in Orissa. The
percentage of population below poverty line is 47% in Orissa compared to the all India average of
23%. Not only is incidence of       poverty high, but it is skewed against mofe vulneraMe sections of
society, namely, thosebelongingto SC andST population.
           Orissa has 3d highest concentration of Scheduled Tnbe population. SC and ST constitute
16.2% and 22.2% of the total population respectively. Poverty among the SC and espeaaily ST
populatiinis striktngty higher than other population group. Thus while the ST represent 22Y0of the
populationof Onssathey constitute40%of the tolal numberof poor.
           Rapidreductinandeventualeradication of poverty isthe overridingaim of the devdopmenl
strategy of the State. The reforms outlined abovewill strengthenthe pro-poororientationof the State
Government budget and services in a number of ways. The economic gmwlh enhannng reforms
spanning agriculture, industry and the power sector, would help accelerate the generation of
ptMfuctiveemployment inthestate eoonomy. FiscalandQovemanGereformsWUM help create space
for enhancing the quantity and quality of public expenditure on basic services for the poor.
h t r a l i z a b n to localbodies and communitygroups would strengthen accountabil'iof the service
providersto the poor.
            One of the objectives in the strategy is to improvethe capacity lo "tor progress in poverty
reduction. A Poverty Task Force has been established, headed by the Development Commissioner
and inclusive of offciais in charge of key social seruices. Under %e directionof the PTF, a Poverty
and Human Development Monitoring System is being devebped, which is working to create a
comprehensive base line of pove!ty and human development indicatorsand strengthenthe State's
statistical system to provide regular and reliabie updates. An expenditure tracking study has been
launched, to identifyleakagesand improvetargeting andefficiency of setecfedanti-poverty programs,
startingwth the RuralEmploymentandChikl Uutriticlnprograms.

ConsultativeProcessof FarmulatingReforms
            The Government of Orissa has followed a consultative approach to #e process of
formulating the refon program, which therefore has a broad degree of acceptance among the
population of the state. Ever since the While Paper on the Slate's Finances, published in 2001, the
Government have taken the pubRc into confidence. A number of regional workshops have been
organized on various components of the reform program, to involve civh society representatives in
developingthe courseof conectin.
            Movingforward, the State plansto furtherstrengthenthe consuitatwe process ina numberof
ways, including the following:

            State Planning Board to prepare and release a Vision 2020 document for public discussion
            (in ZW),priorlo finalization; and
      t     PovertyTask Forceto finalizea PovertyReductionStrategy (by 2Do5), n line with the Vision
             2020and d e r consultationswdhin govemment andwith civilsociety

                                                                                           Annex A
                                                                                      Page 11 of 11




                                                   10


Case for SAL Support
         The proposed Orissa Socio-Economic Development Credit from the World Bank, along with
co-financing in the form of grant support from DFID, is indispensablefor the success of our efforts to
lift Onssa out of its current fiscal mess and set it on a sustainable courseof rapidecOnOmic growth
and poverty reduction, The OSEDCis needed for thefollowing reasons:
     *   The palicy dialogue and reform (inkedprogramme of financial support plays a v i i l catalytic
      '  role inmaintainingas weli as accebratrngthe reform momentum,
         The OSEDC would enaMe the State to finance the direct up front cost of reforms such as
         VRS and other transitional costs (eg,, in the power sector), apart from enhancing technical
      '  assistanceto tmplementthe reforms;
         The availability of such financing at relatively concessional terms would enable the State to
     *   reduceits debt servicing burden more rapidlythan otherwise,
         Such funding would ease the liquidity constraint and assist Government of Onssa to make
         fuller use of available matchrng finance from Government of India for high pnonty social
         sector and povertyalleviation programmes.
                                                131fi-        rjL61,




                                                                                   (P.K. Mohanfy)f

Sri 0.C. Gupta,
Secretary to Government of India
Department of EconomicAffairs,
Minisby of Finance,
NEW DELHI.

Memo No.   - ,Dated
         Cow forwarded to Sn S. C. Gam, Joint Secretaw (State Finances), Department of
Expenditure,Ministry of Finance,Norih Block,   kewDehi,forinformation     and necessary &tion.


                                                                  PrincipalSecretary to Government,
                                                                                 Finance Department

  I




P
W

.-


  r

I!
.-

0
i




     8

r

I
.-




      -a
      S

      C

      .-
      9
      c




      .2 e
      -E 8
      w c
      Q
      .-W e
      -m3u
       E k
       s o




          Ws

In


s
c.
E8

'El
CI
a
0
a
Q
W
x




             vi    .-E




       5
       W

       *-




 m
 a
 s!

 E
 E
 d

I -xm
I      2
       c




 I
 .-


                                                 Annex C
                                               Page 1o f 19




    GQYERHMENT OF ORISSA




MEDIUMTERM FlSCAL PLAN
    002-03 - 21Q074


  wish Explanatory Hat
                   8z
    Development Poticy

            August 2004
     rkra Legislative Auembk otl the Tmof A




     FINANCE DEPARTMENT

                                                                              Annex C
                                                                            Page 2 o f 19




                        EXPLANATORYNOTE ON

      MEDIUMTERM FISCALPLAN2002*03TQ2007-08
                             FOR ORlSSA




I


i




i




     UnsusbtlnablaDebtBuFden;

     The unamstirnaQle debt burden is the most Swnblifirs  m achievitw fml

       Annex C
     Page 3 of 19


b

               Annex C
             Page 4 of 19




5




?
d
 0



 2
 s     !
 1
 1
        I

 311    !

       Annex C
     Page 5 of 19


n

                     Annex C
                   Page 6 of 19



Explanator/Note




                             i
                             i

  Annex C
Page 7 o f 19

               Annex C
             Page 8 of 19




       I




1
I
i
2
3


t
$       I
I!
P
:t




  re

           Annex C
         Page 9 of 19




*****

               Annex C
            Page 10 of 19




uce




       4

   Annex C
Page 11of 19

                     Annex C
                  Page 12 o f 19




I "    1 1-1*-

   Annex C
Page 13 of 19

   Annex C
Page 14 of 19

                                                                                             Annex C
                                                                                         Page 15 o f 19


                                   Bank's Explanatory Note

Introduction

1.        The Medium-Term Fiscal Reform Framework (MTFRF) for 2003-08 reflects a credible
and realistic program o f second-generation fiscal correctionmeasures and targets, to enable faster
economic growth and poverty reduction inh s s a .
2.        The structural roots o f the fiscal crisis in Orissa, as identified by the World Bank's
analytical reports in 1996 and 1999, and acknowledged in various publications o f the State
Government, are: (a) an excessively large, ineffective and unaffordable civil service - due to the
government acting as a de-facto job creation agency in the past - resulting in Orissa having one
of the largest ratios o f civil servants per 1000 population in the country, (b) an excessive number
o f inefficient public enterprises, (c) large debt overhang resulting from central loan financing o f
successive state development plans over several decades, resulting in (d) skewed composition
(interest, salary and pensions absorbing 100 percent o f the state's total revenue) and poor quality
of public expenditures; along with (e) an inefficient tax system and l o w cost recovery for public
services.
3.        As a result of the fiscal reforms initiated in 2001 by the Government o f Orissa, the
primary deficit has declined consistently since the super-cyclone year o f 1999-00, by about 5
percentage points o f GSDP, to 1.5% in 2002-03 and 1.4% in 2003-04. The larger part o f this
correction has come from revenue enhancement measures, and a smaller part from expenditure
savings. In spite o f the overall fiscal correction achieved so far, the composition o f government
expenditure remains skewed, with too high a share o f revenues being pre-empted for covering
fixed and largely inflexible costs, such as salaries, pension and interest payments. Resources
continued to be highly restricted not only for non-wage operation and maintenance (O&M) but
also for anti-poverty programs, including the state's share of centrally sponsored and externally
aided schemes and projects.
4.        The MTFRF for 2003-08 targets an improvement in two key structural ratios in the
state's finances, namely:
              o   Salary Bill (including grants-in-aid of salary) / State's Own Revenue -
                  already reduced from 160% in 1999-00 to 106% in 2002-03 and 99% in2003-04;
                  targeted to be reduced further to no more than 80% by 2007-08; and
              P Salary & Pension/ State's Own & MandatedRevenue-already reducedfrom
                  110% in 1999-00 to 78% in 2002-03 and 72% in 2003-04; targeted to be further
                  reducedto no more than 55% by 2007-08.
5.        Along with a reasonable increase assumed in the level o f central transfers (exact amounts
to be subsequently aligned with the Twelfth Finance Commission award for the period 2005-lo),
the structural correction is projected to result in a correction o f about 3.5 percentage points of
GSDP in the primary fiscal balance during the period 2003-08. Together with debt restructuring
measures to reduce the interest burden, the overall fiscal deficit (net borrowing) would be reduced
from 8.6% o f GSDP in 2002-03 and 7.9% in 2003-04 to no more than 3.5% by 2007-08.
Achievement o f this target would place Orissa well on its way to fiscal sustainability. The
interest to revenue ratio i s already on a declining trend starting 2002-03, and i s projected to fall to
30% by the end o f the period.
6.        The MTFRF is based deliberately on a conservative assumption o f economic growth in
the state at 3.0% on average during 2002-08 compared to 4% in the 1990s and 5% in the 1980s.

                                                                                             Annex C
                                                                                         Page 16 o f 19

Even though Go0 is aiming for a significant acceleration in economic growth, through a range of
growth-enabling reforms initiated recently and to be followed through in 2004105, the fiscal
framework is based on a conservative growth assumption. It therefore presents a credible and
feasible yet bold set of targets for G o 0 to pursue, with the knowledge that achievement o f
economic growth acceleration could enable the state to over-achieve the MTFRF targets. Or at
least, the conservative growth assumption gives confidence that the risk o f revenue falling short
of the targets has been minimized to the extent possible.
7.       The MTFRF envisages that during 2003-08, relatively concessional financing would be
available from external donors in the form o f programmatic loans/credits, to be used towards
direct costs o f reforms, additional debt restructuring and protection o f priority spending; and in
the outer years, increasing amounts of project assistance would also become available as the
benefits o f fiscal and governance reform become evident.


Definition of Base and Reform Case Scenarios
8.       Inorder to measurethe fiscal impact ofthe revenue and expenditure measures envisaged
inthe medium-term reformprogram, it is usefulto lay out aBase Case scenario thatprojectswhat
would have happened to Orissa's finances inthe absence o f the reform measures. Comparison o f
the MTFRFprojections with this Base Case would then yield estimates o f the fiscal impact o f the
reforms.
9.       Common Assumptions. The following macro-economic assumptions are common to
both scenarios: (i)  growth rate o f real GSDP would rise from 1.4% in 2003-04 to 3.8% by2003-
08, averaging 3.0% over the five years 2003-08; (ii)    inflation would be 4.5% in 2003-04 and 5%
in each subsequent year; and (iii)   interest rates on new borrowing, which have declined over the
past two years, would stabilize at 10% on average (implyinga 5% real interest rate).
 10.     Base CaseAssumptions. The Base Case scenario has been projected on the basis o f the
following key assumptions: (i)   state tax revenues would grow with a buoyancy o f 1 (as achieved
historically during the period 1985-2000) with respect to GSDP, fiom their actual level in
 1999100; (ii) charges would grow in nominal rupee terms at the same rate as the state's
                user
population (implyingno change in rates); (iii)    the salary bill will remain constant inreal terms, at
its 1999100 level (attrition based moderate reduction in size being compensated by an equivalent
annual merit increase); (iv) G o 0 will fully use the standard sources o f borrowing, as well as
additional borrowing at market terms to finance the projected deficits; and (v) there i s no
additional debt restructuring other than the 2002-05 Go1debt-swap scheme.
 11.     Base Case Outcome. The projected outcome under the Base Case i s that the overall
 fiscal deficit remains at almost 10% o f GSDP or higher until 2007-08 and the primary balance
remains negative.     The economic composition o f expenditure remains skewed, with the salary
bill absorbing 138% o f the state's own revenues and non-wage O&M remaining way below
recommended norms. The continuing deficits would lead to an explosive path for the outstanding
 stock of debt and guarantees, which would rise to 98.6% o f GSDP, or 554% o f total revenue, by
 2007-08.
 12.     Reform Case. The Reform Case scenario i s defined as the outcome o f implementing the
 fiscal reform program o f GOO,including the measures already taken during 2000-03 and those
 envisaged during 2003-07. The resulting fiscal saving i s used to (i)      reduce the primary deficit
 lower than in the Base Case and convert it into a significant surplus; and (ii)ensure that
 investments and non-wage O&M are protected in the short-term and enhanced in the medium-
 term, along with governance reforms to improve the quality o f such expenditure.

                                                                                                   Annex C
                                                                                              Page 17 of 19

13.       Revenue enhancing measures. In addition to the measures already implemented until
2002-03 (outlined in the main document), Go0 aims to implement the following additional
revenue enhancing measures:
    9 Shift from specific to ad-valorembasis for motor vehicles taxation (impact from2003-04
          onwards);
    9 Modernization of administration leading to improved compliance with motor vehicles
          taxation (impact from 2004-05 onwards);
    9 Introduction of Value Added Tax inplace of the State Sales Tax (impact from 2005-06
          onwards);
    9 Raterationalizationand improved administrationofElectricity Duty (impact from 2004-
          05 onwards); and
     9 Fulland effective implementation ofProfessions Tax (partial impact in2003/04 and full
          impact thereafter)

14.       Expenditure Saving Measures. InNovember 2002 the Government tabled inthe State
Legislature a White Paper on Public Expenditure Management and Administrative Reforms.
Under the envisaged program, fiscal savings are projected from the following measures:
     .    Salary bill containment, through attrition based downsizing and redeployment, exit o f
     .    casual and regular government employees with a moderate VRS payment, and
          rationalization o f staff benefits;
          Rationalization o f higher and secondary education subsidies (`grants-in-aid' to privately
          managed colleges and highschools);
          Privatization/closure/restructuring o f state government owned enterprises; and
          Initiation o f pension reform, including establishment o f a contributory scheme for new
          recruits.

                                           Table 1: Impact o f Fiscal Reforms
Rs. Billion                                           2003-04    2004-05   2005-06  2006-07  2007-08
Impact of reform measures
    Revenue reform                                       12.05       14.76    17.15    19.71    22.09
          Tax measures                                   11.21       13.91    16.31    18.19    19.89
          Non-tax measures                                 0.84       0.85     0.84      1.53    2.19
     Expenditure reforms                                   1.79       2.13     8.15    13.24    15.86
          Savings in Salary bill                           1.64       1.13     2.28     2.90      3.78
          Grants-in-aid reform                             0.15       0.35     0.60     0.88      1.19
          Power sector reform                                                  2.43     5.91      6.45
          Other Public enterprises reform                             0.65     2.63     3.02      3.44
          Interest savings from additional debt swap                           0.21     0.54      1.01
Total                                                    13.84       16.89    25.30    32.95    37.95


Costs of reform                                            0.26       1.69     4.42     4.92      4.63
     Employee separation                                   0.26       0.69      0.92     0.92     0.63
     Performance based budget support to power sector                 0.50      1.50     2.00     2.00
     Provisioningfor contingent liabilities                           0.50      2.00     2.00     2.00

15.       Fiscal Impact of Reform Measures. The cumulative impact o f measures taken during
2000-03 and those envisaged during 2003-08, are shown in Table 2. The fiscal gain i s projected

                                                                                                                                                             Annex C
                                                                                                                                                      Page 18 o f 19

at Rs. 12700 crore (about US$2.8 billion) during2003-08, while the direct costs o f implementing
the reforms are estimated at Rs. 1750 crore (US$375 million). The principal outcomes o f this
bold yet feasible program i s that, with appropriate levels o f concessional assistance from the
Government o f India and external donors, Orissa would be able to achieve in five years fromnow
(i)permanentexitfi-omdebtreliefandrescheduling;and(ii)
     a                                                                                                      freeing up o f resources for growth-
inducing public investments and poverty reducing social programs.
16.           Fiscal Sustainability. The MTFRF targets a turnaround in the primary fiscal balance,
from a deficit of 1.5% in 2002-03 into a significant surplus o f 2% o f GSDP by 2007-08. Along
with savings in the debt servicing burden resulting from the swapping o f new relatively cheap
borrowing for old expensive debt to the central government and the small savings fund, the
overall fiscal deficit (net borrowing) i s projected to decline fairly rapidly to less than 3.5% o f
GSDP by 2007-08.                         While the primary deficit i s projected to be eliminated by2005-06, the
revenue (current account) deficit i s projectedto become negligible by 2007-08.
                                                                 Table 2: Reform Scenario
Rs. Biliion                                  I999100     2000101       2001102       2002103        2003104       2004105        2005106        2006107          2007108
                                             Actuals      Actuals      Actuals      Actualsia      Estimates        Proj.           Proj.           Proj.           Proj.
Revenue                                          58.85         69.02        70.48          82.14        91.34        101.74            119.01         128.71         137.01
State's own revenue                              24.21         28.69        31.59          38.77        42.15         46.17             50.71          55.71           60.72
     Tax                                         17.04         21.84        24.67          29.16        31.68         35.88             40.10          4407            48.05
      Non-Tax                                     7.16          6.85         6.92           9.61        10.47          10.29            10.61          11.64           12.67
Central Resources                                34.64         40.33        38.89          43.37        49.19          55.57            68.30          73.00           76.29
   Shared taxes                                  17.48         26.04        26.49          27.62        33.25          39.76            46.33          51.89           58.11
   Central grantsib                              17.16         14.29        12.41          15.75         15.94         15.81            21.97          21.12           18.18

 Non-Interest expenditure                        83.93         79.42        81.77          83.68        98.08         103.71           113.05         117.99         124.00
   Salary                                        37.26         35.97        33.62          38.60        39.31          41.86            42.87          4451            46.00
   Grants in aid of salary                        1.61          2.06         2.66           2.54          2.54           2.54            2.54            2.54            2.54
   Pension                                        6.88          8.32        10.03          12.30         12.03         13.77            17.72          17.86            17.91
   Subsidies and transfers                        1.60          1.17         1.17           1.46          2.61           1.61            2.61            3.11            3.11
     oiw power subsidy                            0.00          0.00         0.17           0.58          1.50          0.50              1.50           2.00            2.00
   Separation Cost                                0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00          0.26           0.69            0.92            0.92            0.63
   Infrastructure O&M/c                           4.88          4.24         6.27           5.83          8.21           8.82            9.57           10.44           11.37
   Expenditure on key social sectorsid            3.48          2.80         2.64           3.13          3.11           3.32            3.58            3.89            4.23
   Devolution to iocal bodies                     0.16          1.20         1.27           1.46          1.50           1.55            2.97            3.04            3.12
   Other revenue expenditures                    16.33          9.68        12.76          10.98         11.30         14.12             15.33          15.40           17.33
   Capital outlay                                 7.99          8.39         8.87          10.74         12.81         13.77             14.94          16.29           17.75
   Net Iendingie                                  3.73          5.59         2.47           1.66          4.37           1.65             0.00           0.00            0.00

 Primary balance                                -25.08        -10.40       .11.29          -6.55         -6.74          -1.97             5.96          10.72           13.01
 Interest payments                               12.38         22.87        28.35          28.85         32.27         33.86             37.15          39.57           41.15
   OMinterest for power sector                                                                             2.34          1.04             1.03            1.05           0.99
   oiw Provisioning for contingent liabilites                                                                            0.50             2.00           2.00            2.00
 Overall balanceie                              -37.46        -33.27       -39.64         -35.39        -39.01        -35.83            -31.19         -28.85         -28.15
 Memo:
 Revenue balance                                -25.74        -19.29       -28.30         -22.99        -21.33        -20.40            -16.24         -12.56         -10.39
 Overall net borrowingie                         33.50         29.00        26.49          37.67         37.01         35.35             25.68          22.15           20.44
 Consolidated debt                              183.24       212.16        237.92        274.97        323.09         358.50           384.09         406.13          426.54
 Guarantees                                      33.29         37.87        53.09          51.78         52.32         53.11             60.32          68.75           77.63
 GSDP                                           386.29       387.79       432.93         439.74        466.12         501.08           543.68         592.61          t x . 9 4
 /a Cash based accounts have been adjusted to include extraordinary payment arrears in 2002-03 of about 1.1% of
ibEiiluding grant component of extraordinary financing from external donors
/c Includes non-salary recurring expenditures on public works, water supply and sanitation, housing, major & medium irrigation, minor irrigation, flood control and roads ar
id Including non-salary recurring expenditures in education, health and
/e Excluding the one-time impact in 2003-04 of the securization of power sector dues, amounting to Rs.ll.02 billion. Overall deficit is Rs.50.03 billion if we Include this
Note: Differences in some of the figures inthis table from those shown inthe Govt. of Orissa's Medium-Term Fiscal ReformProgram
are due to definitional differences that are listed in the footnotes above.


17.            Expenditure Restructuring. The MTFRF envisages a slow but steady shift in the
economic composition of public expenditure in Orissa - away from interest payments, salaries,

                                                                                           Annex C
                                                                                       Page 19 of 19

subsidies, loans and guarantees to unviable public enterprises - towards capital outlay and non-
wage operations and maintenance in infrastructure and key social sectors, including education
and health. There are also important shifts in intra-sectoral composition o f expenditures, such as
inthe case o f education and irrigation. Inthe case of education, rationalizationo f subsidies at the
higher level, along with increased funding o f elementary education, using central and external
resources available for this purpose, would raise the share o f elementary within total education.
Inthe case of public expenditure on irrigation, Go0 is shifting the focus o fits investment budget
away from expansion o f major canal systems, towards minor irrigation schemes and groundwater
exploitation based on management by user groups.

                                                                                                              Annex D
                                                                                                           Page 1of2



                            List of Monitorable ProgramIndicators


                LITEM                                                           Indicators


1.  Agriculturalpolicyand land          9 Review ofimpactofamendmentofOrissaAgricultural Produce MarketingAct
    administration: agro-markets
    Rural connectivity                  9 Number ofpaanipanchayats established and functioning(annual)


2.  Improvingthe regulatory             9 Estimatesof private investmentby sectorsinthe state (annual).
    frameworkfor private enterprise
3.  Restructureand privatize public     9 Number ofunviableenterprises closed (annual).
    enterprises                         >  Number and value o f assets sold (annual).


4.  Continuereformof the power          >  Billing and collection o f electricity charges from state govemment, urban local
    sector                                 bodies, public enterprises and non-govemment (bi-monthly).


5.  Establisha sustainableand
    transparent medium-term fiscal         Primary (non-interest) balance-in Rupees and as YOGSDP (Annual)

    framework                              Ratio o f Salary (including grants inaid to educational institutions) to State's Own
                                           Revenue(Annua1).

                                           Ratio o f Salary (including grants in aid to educational institutions) plus Pensions to
                                           State's Own and Mandated Revenue (Annual).

                                           Ratio o f Revenue Deficit to Revenue Receipts (Annual)

                                           Ratio o f Fiscal Deficit to GSDP (Annual)

                                           Interest / Revenue (Annual)

                                           DebVTotal revenue receipts (Annual)

                                           Outstanding Guarantees / Revenue (excluding grants) 2 years ago (Annual).
6.  Revenue measures                    9 Revenuefrom eachindividual tax -in Rupees (Monthly)
7.  Expenditure & Public Expenditure    9 Disbursement ofstate counterpartfunding for centrally sponsoredprograms (Half
    Managementmeasures                     yearly).

                                        9 List ofschemes completed and closed (withfinancialdetails) as aresult ofZero-
                                           Based Investment Reviews(Annua1)
                                        9 Non-salaryexpenditure oneducation, healthandnutrition-inRupees (annual).
III.PUBLICEXPENDITUREMANAGEk NTAND GOVERNANCEREFORM

8.  Improvepublicprocurementand         9 Progress towards MediumTermAction Planon financialaccountability
    financialaccountability
9.  Improve servicedelivery             9 Numberoftehsils/districts where computerization oflandrecordsand birthsideaths
                                           registration is operational (half yearly).


10. Implement and monitor a             9 Rateofdisposal ofvigilance trial cases as seen from court statistics(annual).
     comprehensiveanti-corruption
    program                             9 Departmental reportson corruptionproneprocesses (annual)



11. Reformthe civil serviceand public   >  Number o f regular, temporary, work-charged and casual employees at the end o f
     administration                        March each year (annual).
                                        9 Numberofposts abolished andnumber of staffredeployed (Annual).
                                        9 Actions taken against OrganizationalReviewrecommendations

                                                                                              Annex D


             1. ITEM                                            Indicators

                        I
IV.HUMANDEVELOPMENT

12. Education             >  Number o f educational institutions, colleges & highschools, receiving Grants-in-Aid,
                             showing how many were disqualified (Annual);
                          >  An indicator (to be specified after finalization ofreorganizationplan) of the status of
                             reorganization o fthe Dept of School and Mass Education

13. Health                >  Number of institutional deliveries and number of deliveries by skilled personnel
                             (annual).

                           P Immunizationcoverage (annual)

                                                                                                                             Annex E
                                                                                                                           Page I of 6

                                                       Poverty in Orissa'

1.          "Orissa is rich, but Oriyas arepoor" as the popular saying goes, despite its rich endowment o f
forests, metals and minerals, lakes and lengthy coastline, Orissa has become India's poorest state: per
capita income in the state today i s the same as in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh 15 years ago, and Uttar
Pradesh almost 10 years ago about 17
million people, nearly half o f Orissa's                         Table 1: Orissa and India-progress in poverty reduction
population, live below the poverty line                                                         Orissa                   India
(Table 1). While the poverty headcount                                                 1983184 1993194 1999100I983184 I993194 1999100
declined by almost               l7percentage PovertyHeadcount(percent)                  65.3    48.6     47.2  44.8     36.0    26.1
points
progressbetween             1983    and     1993,                    Rural (percent)     67.5    49.8     48.1  45.7     37.1    27.1
             in poverty reduction stalled                           Urban(percent)       49.2    40.6     42.8  40.8     32.9    23.5
between 1993 and 1999. This            patternis
in sharp contrast with the PerfOrIIIanCe               Source: Officialestimates PlanningCommission,Press Releases
                                                       (March 11.1997. and Fehniarv22.201111.
o f glJ     major Indian states, (except
Assam), likely a reflection o f slow down in growth: GSDP growth in Orissa averaged 2.6% annually in
the 1990s, down fiom 4.7% in the 1980s and the state's economy i s increasingly lagging behind the rest
o f India.
2.          Regional disparities: Onssa i s an overwhelmingly rural state: about 87% o f its population lives
in rural areas. Poverty in rural Orissa (48%) is higher than in urban areas (43%). Inequalities are
pronounced between the relatively wealthy coastal area (32% poverty) and inland areas (the rates range
from 50% in the northern region to a staggering 81% in the southern region). While poverty declined in
the rural coastal region during the 1990s, rural areas in the southern region witnessed an unprecedented
increase inpoverty from 66% in 1993194to 81% in 1999/00; poverty also increased inthe northern region
(Table 2). Despite the marked contrast inpoverty rates across regions, the absolute number of rural poor
are roughly equally distributed across different regions (on account o f the very highpopulation density in
the coastal region).


                               Table 2: Orissa Trends in incidence of poverty by sector and region
                                              -
                                   1983-84   198748     1993-94 1999-2000                  1999.2000                 1999-2000
Region                                                                                      (rural)*                 (urban)**
                                                    HCR*                              HCR       contribution    HCR        contribution
                                                                                                  to poverty                to poverty
Coastal                             56.5      47.7        45.6         31.5           31.8           31.4       41.8           49.7
Southern                            79.1      80.3        66.1         81.3           87.1           33.4       44.0           13.0
Northern                            72.3      58.2        43.9         50.1           49.8           35.2       45.8           37.3
Total                               66.2      56.8        48.6         47.2           48.1          100.0       43.5           100.0
*Source: A, de Haan and A. Dubey "Poverty in Orissa: a DisaggregatedPicture", 2004, processed. Note that these numbersdo not match the
official Planning Commission numbers, because they were calculated by the authors from the unit record data. No regional disaggregation is
availablefrom the official sources.
**Source: M.Panda "Poverty Reduction Strategyfor Orissa", 2003, basedon NSS 55th round, ConsumptionExpendituresurvey, processed.


3.          Poverty in Orissa is intrinsically linked to social identity.                           Orissa has the third highest
concentration (after MP and Maharashtra) o f scheduled tribes (ST) population; Scheduled caste (SC) and
ST constitute respectively 16.2 and 22.2% o f the total population. Poverty among the SC and especially
the ST population i s strilngly higher than among other population groups. Thus, while the ST represent
22% o f the population of Orissa, they constitute more than 40% o f the total number o f poor. The relative
disadvantage o f the scheduled tribe population i s a remarkably robust feature o f the profile o f poverty in

 'From     `Poverty Analysis: Diagnosis andApproach', by Elena Glinskaya.

                                                                                                                              Annex E
                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 6

Orissa: many social indicators for this group are considerably worse than for the majority population, as
well as compared to the ST population in other parts o f India. While the plight of tribal populations i s
reasonably well-known in Orissa, it i s not uncommon to encounter the misconception (especially among
the relatively better-off in coastal cities) that caste has a much weaker influence in Orissa than inthe rest
o f India.
                                 Table 3: Rural Orissa-Poverty           by social group (1999-2000)
                                                                                                                                         ~




                                       ScheduledTribes           Scheduled Casts       Other "Backwards"        Majority        Total
                                                                                             Classes
Head Count Ratio (HRC)                         73.1                      52.3                 39.7               24.01          48.14
Contribution to poverty                       41.01                     22.74                 26.02              10.23          100
Source: M.Panda "Poverfy Reduction Strategy for Orissa", 2003, based on NSS 55th round, Consumption Expenditure survey, processed

4.        Non-income welfare indicators in Orissa have improved steadily, but a tall agenda lies ahead.
Notwithstanding substantial improvements in recent years in infant and under-five mortality, both
measures in Orissa are considerably
higher than All-India levels (Table 4).                                 Table 4: Orissa and lndia - Selected Social lndicators
Maternal mortality (362 per 100,000                                                              Orissa                    lndia
live births) i s much higher than inmany                                                1983184 1993194 1999100198318419931941999100
neighboring states (e.g., 154 in Andhra
                                                         (per 1,000 live births)
                                                          Infant Mortality Rate           163     112.1   81.0     115     78.5   67.6
Pradesh and 264 in West Bengal). More
than      half      o f   all   children        are      (per '000 live births)*
                                                          Under-fiveMortalityRate         nla     131.0   104.4    nla     109.3  94.9
underweight, and - in contrast to other                   Maternal Mortality Rate
major states - there has been little                      (per 100,000 live births)       nla      nla     361     nla      nla    408
progress in Orissa over the past decade
in reducing child malnutrition rates. In                  Children (percent)
                                                                       Of Underweight     nla     53.3     54.4     nla     53.4   47.0

education, there are heartening signs o f                                   children      n/a     36.8    43.7      n/a    35.4    42.0
catching-up with the rest o f India, both                 12-23vaccinated
                                                                 months

interms of enrollment and literacy rates                  Two doses Or more Of TT
                                                          Vaccination during pregnancy    nla     53.8     74.3     nla     53.8   66.8
for both sexes. However, evidence                         Access to Improved Water
suggests that health and education                        Source (percent)                nla     50.9     65.3     nla     68.2   77.9

outcomes are considerably worse among                     Householdswith no Latrine/              87,8     86,5     n,a     69,7   64,0
the poor, perpetuating a vicious cycle o f                Toilet Facility (percent)
debilitating ill-health,       illiteracy, and            Adult Literacy rate             41.0    49.1     63,6    43.6     52.2   65.4
poverty. Improvements in health and                       (both sexes)

education              outcomes           require         Adult Literacy rate (female)    25.1    34.7     51.O    29.8     39.3   54.3
                                                          Source: NFHSI and NFHS2
improvements in local capacity to
deliver health and education services.
5.         Forests cover         30%      o f   all
geographical area in Orissa, and are an important source of livelihood for the tribal population, which
collect goods (e.g. nuts, sal and kendu leaf) for subsistence. Forest and mineral resources in Orissa tend to
b locatedon state-owned land inhabitedbythe poor and disadvantaged. While forest dwellers are allowed
by the government to collect minor non-timber forest produce (NTFP) (and the recent liberalization of
NTFP sales and marketing is expected to improve their standing viz. a viz. middlemen), the highpoverty
incidence among them i s inextricably linked to property rights. Many believe that in the most deprived
hinterlands, a significant dent in poverty will not occur without at least partial transfer of property rights
on forests and mineral resources to people who live there (e.g., see Saxena 2000).

6.         Agriculture i s the mainstay o f the economy, providing employment to over four-fifths o f all
workers, even if its contribution to GSDP i s only about one-third. Small and marginal holdings
predominate in the state. Over 50% o f the rural poor work as casual laborers and over one-quarter

                                                                                                                       Annex E
                                                                                                                     Page 3 of 6

struggle to subsist by cultivating small plots o f poor quality land (Table 5). Outside the coastal region,
there has been little employment diversification out o f apculture in rural areas during the nineties.
Moreover, the share of total employment working as cultivators declined dramatically (from 45% in
1993/94 to 30% in 1999/00), with many small-holders entering agricultural casual wage occupation
instead. This trend i s consistent with population growth, declining per-capita land endowments, and
scarcity o fjob opportunities outside o f agriculture.
                                        Table 5: Orissa-Distribution  of rural population
                          by per capita consumption quintile and principal economic activity (1999100)
                  Agricultural Labor     Cultivation         Regular          Casual               Self        Other      Total
                                                            non-farm         non-farm           non-farm
 Bottom                  59.6               26.3               0.5               4.0               9.2           0.4     100
 2                       50.1               32.2               1.5               5.3               10.8          0.1     100
 3                       48.9               26.4               2.4               8.0               14.1          0.2     100
 4                       41.3               33.7               4.2               6.1               14.4          0.2     100
 TOP                     22.3               35.1               16.1              4.7              21.4           0.5     100
 All                     44.6               30.7               4.8               5.7               13.9          0.3     100
Source: Staff estimatesfrom 55" Round NSS
7.        High poverty in Orissa is tied to low wages in agriculture: Wages o f agncultural laborers in
Orissa are low      - the lowest in India- and have been slow to change. Inthe coastal region, a day o f work
by a male agricultural laborer bought 3.9 kg o f rice in 1999/00 which represents more than 20% increase
from 3.2 kg in 1993/94. Inthe southern region, however, the corresponding change was only 10% (from
2.1 kg in 1993/94 to 2.3 kg o f rice in 1999/00), see Table 6. In other poor states (e.g. Bihar) real
agricultural wages over this period increased
considerably faster as compared to the hinterland                        Table 6 Orissa Real agricultural daily wage
                                                                                          -
of Orissa.2 A day of female labor buys even less -                                          (kg of rice)
in 1999itbought 3 kginCoastal and 2.1kginthe                                  1993 1999            1993             1999
Southern regions. The increase in share o f                                  Rslkg Rslkg all male female all male female
agricultural casual labor in southern and northern                 Coastal    5.31   9.59 3.02 3.2      2.47 3.79 3.93 3.03
regions (as well as the concomitant stagnation o f                 Southern 5.37     9.31   1.95 2.14   1.63 2.25 2.34  2.09
real wages) i s in sharp contrast to trends in the                 Northern   5.43 9.77     2.37 2.62   1.91 2.65 2.78  2.35
Coastal region, and goesa long                in explaining        Source: Staff estimatesfrom 50 and 55" Round NSS
the differential pace o f poverty reduction across
the two regions.
8.        ...which      in turn are linked to low landproductivity. InOrissa, rice yields are only about one-
halfthe All-India level (Table 7), likely the effect o f low penetration o f modem agricultural practices (e.g.
low seed replacement ratio, low fertilizer use, etc), low availability o f extension services, and
underdeveloped markets. h g a t i o n in Onssa, in addition to having the lowest coverage across Indian
states, i s also skewed towards canals. In the past, irrigation projects have yielded disappointingly l o w
rates o f return due to management problems, inappropriate water use, and high non-completion rates.
Similarly, the proportion of villages connected by all-weather roads i s also lower than inthe rest o f India,
impedingaccess by farmers to markets and processing infrastructure. These constraints in turn result in
limited crop diversification        and an unusually high share o f paddy in output (paddy accounts for 90% of
cropped area and 80% of irrigated area).3 Regulatory constraints on private investments in marketing
outlets and storage facilities don't help either. Another big hurdle to efficient land use i s an outdated

* Interms of purchasing power of rice (the main staple), daily wages o f agricultural laborers increased by 24 % in Southem and
by 60 % inCentral region of Bihar between 1993-94 and 1999100.
  Based on estimate from 5Sh Round NSS . According to administrative data, paddy accounts for 54 % o f the gross cropped area.

                                                                                                                    Annex E
                                                                                                                  Page 4 of 6

tenancy law that encourages informal (Le. unrecorded leasing) contracts between absentee landlords and
poor tenant farmers who do not have access to institutional credit.
9.       Absence of adequate resettlement and rehabilitation policies have hindered investment. While
the rural non-farm sector in Orissa provides some economic opportunities to a small share o f the
population with relatively better skills and education, there are many constraints to attracting private
capital, related in particular to underdeveloped physical infrastructure and regulatory hurdles. Once the
engine o f growth inthe state, mining and allied industries have stalled inrecent years, as has mineral and
forestry-based manufacturing (annual industrial growth rates decelerated fi-om 7.7% inthe 1980s to 3.2%
inthe 1990s). Part of the reason for this loss of momentum may be due to liberalizationpolicies of the
1990s (public investments predominated in these sectors earlier, but have dropped o f f in more recent
years) as well as the drop inworldwide prices o f raw materials. However, the absence o f well-defined and
fair resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) policies
for people adversely affected by land acquisitions                     Table 7: Orissa and India--Productivity Indicators
have also acted as a barrier, as these are a major
source o f conflict between local communities,                                                      Orissa       India
civil society, private investors and government4                   Per capita food production (kg)   164          209
                                                                   Rice yield (kglha)                1210        1930
With the surge o f interest among private investors                Foodgrain yield (qtlha)           10.8         16.2
in large-scale mineral-based manufacturing in Milkyield(peranimal kglperday)
Orissa    (e.g.     aluminum       and steel,        fertilizer    1996-97:
manufacturing,       cement, etc.), it i s o f utmost                                    Indigenous  0.483       1.840
importance for Go0 to review existing policies                                          Crossbreds   3.931       6.160

(and their implementation) inconsultation with all concerned stakeholders and strive to develop a fair and
transparent R&R policy framework.
10.       Urban poverty is a growing cause for concern: While as noted the overwhelming majority
(90%) o f the poor live in villages, urban poverty i s also pervasive and has not improved since 1987/88.
An emerging problem i s slum dwellers incities, many o f whom come (sometimes with their families) in
search o f seasonaljobs, mainly in construction. Slum dwellers are largely excluded from access to public
health and education services (most of the public programs are rural based). One o f the most worrisome
trends have been the significant decline in enrollment among poor primary school-age children in urban
areas. Urban unemployment i s high (8% in 1999100, on average) especially among the educated (20% in
 1999/00).
 11.      GOO'Sstrategy to accelerategrowth andpoverty reduction is articulated in its Tenth Five-year
plan and drafl "Vision 2020" strategy. There are important linkages to poverty reduction inthe elements
o f the reform program as discussed in the main text.                     An important pro-poor reform has been the
establishment o f a multi-sectoral Poverty Task Force (PTF) under the Development Commissioner. PTF
has also been entrusted by Go0 with the responsibility for poverty monitoring. To accomplish monitoring
and evaluation tasks more effectively, a comprehensive poverty and human development monitoring
system (PHDMS) has been set-up by the PTF. One o f the main objectives o f this system i s to track the
impact o f reforms on the public, and strengthen GOO'Scapacity to design pro-poor policies by more
clearly linking expenditures with outcome measures. A set o f poverty and social development indicators
to be monitored by the PHDMS i s presented in Table 9.




  see Industrial Policy Resolution 2001 of the State of Orissa. Vienna, June 2001.

.e
c


a
b

m"    m"  m " &




    i           i

d

                                                                                    Annex F
                                                                                 Page 1of 3



Framework for monitoring the implementation of the DevelopmentAction Plan
                     Technical Assistance for Capacity Building


               Orissa: Technical Assistance and CapacityBuilding

  The Department for InternationalDevelopment (DFID) o f the United Kingdom has been
  providing substantial Technical Assistance (TA) to Government of Orissa (GOO), since
  the 1980s to the health sector and since 1996 to the power sector. From 2000, the World
  Bank and DFID have been collaborating in providing this assistance, which has been
  developed through several joint technical missions between 2001/02 and 2003/2004.
  Most o f the assistance includes contributions by Indian experts from other reforming
  Indian states, often in cooperation with foreign experts. Regardless o f the sources o f
  funding, all TA related to the preparation o f the proposed OERL (or Orissa Socio-
  Economic Development Loan as it i s now called - OSEDL) was designed and supervised
  cooperatively among the Bank, DFID, and GOO. The technical assistance covers mainly
  the following areas:
          Investment climate studies, including cross-cutting issues o f deregulation as well
          as issues specific to identified sub-sectors (World Bank and DFID);
          Study o f constraints to apcultural growth (World Bank, under its ongoing Water
          Resources ConsolidationProject);
           Study o f health care-seelung behavior among the poor inOllssa (World Bank);
          Various analytical work by Indian and international researchers to feed into the
          development o f the poverty reduction strategy inOrissa (World Bank and DFID,
           see below);
          Public Enterprise Reform Program including consultancy support to plan
          restructuring and sale, and counseling and retraining under the Social Safety Net
          program (DFID);
          Restructuring o f the power distributing company, promoting commercial
          partnerships between two privatized distribution companies and rural village
           level committees, and helping the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission
          better address the commercial requirements o f the sector. These inputs have
          helped to pave the way for sector reforms (DFID);
           Strengthening o f revenue generation - analytical reports by intemational
           consultant on Orissa's revenue system (World Bank);
           International consultancy support for computerization o f Sales Tax, and the
           design, preparation and training for introduction o f Value Added Tax (DFID);
           Compiling a database o f all employees paid out o f the budget o f Government o f
           Onssa (DFID).
           Inputs to the Administrative Reform Cell (DFID, see below) including support
           for 10 Organisational Reviews o f Go0 Departments with a view to planning
          more efficient and effective government;
          A small challenge fund program to build capacity among Orissa civil society
           organizations and to encourage their dialogue with GOO,with an emphasis on
           strengthening local governance (DFID).
          Health and business deregulation sectors (DFID).

                                                                                      Annex F
                                                                                   Page 2 of 3

2. First, a DFID-funded international consultant camed out a study to assess the impact o f
   the proposed reform measures on the poor - concluding that most o f the reforms are
   likely to be poverty-neutral or have a positive impact on the poor. A DFID grant has been
   set up with a local research institution (NC Centre for Development Studies) to establish
   an Academic & Research Support Unit dedicated to GoO's Poverty Task Force (PTF).
   With the help o f this grant, the PTF commissioned a report on poor people's perceptions
   o f service delivery in 2001. Significant activities being taken forward by the PTF
   include: (i)assessing poverty monitoring activities across line departments; (ii)
   strengthening capacity in the Directorate o f Economics and Statistics (DES) including
   computerization; (iii)improving capacity for poverty analysis and developing a
   comprehensive baseline o f poverty and development indicators (iv) reviewing
   expenditures on social services and anti-poverty programs, including expenditure
   trackmg in two departments and (v) improving identification and targeting o f BPL
   households. The PTF has also commissioned a number o f studies analyzing different
   aspects o f poverty in Orissa (including institutional, fiscal and socio-economic issues) as
   well as the impact o f ongoing interventions. These will inform the poverty reduction
   strategy o f the Government.
3. To underpin its governance and civil service reform agenda, a study was conducted o f
   legal and judicial precedents in retrenchment in India. A senior Indian consultant was
   also engaged since early 2002 (funded at different times by DFID or the Bank) to serve as
   strategy advisor to G o 0 Administrative Reform Cell (ARC) set up to guide and monitor
   the process o f administrative reform. A priority task for the ARC has been to co-ordinate
   and oversee the organizational reviews o f key government Departments, to appraise their
   functions, scale, organizational stmcture, and staffing needs. Inthe context o f the current
   fiscal crisis in Orissa, one key immediate output o f the reviews was and will be the
   identification o f surplus posts and personnel. The reviews, however, have the broader
   objective o f improving the efficiency, effectiveness and responsiveness o f government.
   Consultancy inputs for these reviews have been and will continue to be provided by
   DFID.
4. In order to complement the assistance provided under the World Bank assisted power
   sector project, due to be concluded in 2004, DFID i s extending its current technical
   assistance to the power sector for a year.
5. In2002, the Bank carried out a preliminary public accountability assessment in Orissa as
   part o f preparatory technical work for the programmatic adjustment loan. On GoO's
   request, the Bank and DFID have conducted a comprehensive State Financial
   Accountability Assessment. The need to improve management o f the state's treasuries
   was suggested by the assessment, and DFID i s supporting a Treasury Management
    Systems Scoping Study.
6. The Department o f Information Technology o f GOO,has prepared a proposal for DFID
   assistance to formulate an IT Strategy. The proposal calls for establishment o f a state-
   wide V-SAT based GRAMSAT network in all 314 blocks and 30 districts o f Orissa. In
   order to take this forward, DFID has funded a workshop to share knowledge o f what has
   been initiated in Onssa and best practice in other Indian States. This exchange o f views
   i s expected to help decide the best way to proceed with a government-wide IT strategy,
    focusing on the user requirements o f the prioritized departments.
7. As part o f the decentralization agenda, the panchayats (rural local bodies) play a central
   role in rural development. A large majority o f panchayat members elected in 2002 are
   new and need training to discharge their responsibilities effectively. G o 0 submitted a

                                                                                   Annex F
                                                                                Page 3 of 3

  proposal for DFID assistance on capacity building for PRI members in Orissa, and a
  workshop was organized in April 2003 on Training Needs Analysis for the PRI officials.
  The findings o fthe workshop are under discussion between Go0 andDFID.
8. Finally, a training program in public expenditure management for key officers in the
   Finance Department, the line departments, the Panchayat Raj institutions, and members
   o f the legislative assembly, i s being designed, for implementation with DFID and Bank
   assistance. The program's focus will be mainly on budget preparation and execution;
  project appraisal; project management; accounting and reporting; and elementary
  budgeting for PRIs staff.

                                                                                                             Annex G
                                                                                                           Page 1 of 6

                              Public I nformation Notice                                          EXTERNAL
                                                                                                  RELATIONS
                                                                                                  DEPARTMENT



Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 031104                           InternationalMonetary Fund
August 21,2003                                                       700 19th Street, NW
                                                                     Washington, D.C. 20431 USA

                         IMP Concludes 2003 Article IV Consultationwith India

Public Information Notices (PINS)are issued, (i) the request o f a member country, following the
                                                              at
conclusion o f the Article IV consultation for countries seeking to make known the views o f the IMF
to the public. This action i s intended to strengthen IMF surveillance over the economic policies o f
member countries by increasing the transparency o f the IMF's assessment o f these policies; and (ii)
following policy discussions inthe Executive Board at the decision o f the Board.
On July 18, 2003, the Executive Board o f the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the
Article IV consultation with India.'
Background
Economic activity in 2002/03 was uneven across key sectors. Growth i s estimated to have slowed
to 4% percent in 2002/03 from 5% percent in 2001/02, with the sharp drought-induced decline in
agriculture (by 3% percent) offsetting the recovery in industry and the strong growth in services.
Within industry,infrastructure-related sectors seem to have ledthe way, on the back of the publicly
sponsored national highways development project.
Inflation has picked up in recent months, mostly owing to supply side factors. WPI inflation rose
from under 2 percent inApril 2002 to about 6% percent at end-April 2003 before subsiding again to
around 5 percent in early June. The pickup was mostly due to the higher global oil prices and a
drought, which affected edible oil prices.
Balance o f payments developments have been favorable and foreign exchange reserves are being
accumulated at an unprecedented rate. Goods and services export growth was strong-benefiting
from improved competitiveness and the global trend towards outsourcing driven by the need to cut
costs. Notwithstanding the relatively strong growth in non-oil imports (13% percent in 2002/03),
India registered a current account surplus estimated at % percent o f GDP in 2002/03. Capital
account developments appear to have been driven by dollar weakness and expectation o f a rupee
appreciation, a highly favorable interest rate differential, and changes in international banlung
practices. The result o f these developments has been an unprecedented accumulation o f reserves-
reserves reached $83 billion in mid-July-and               an appreciation o f the rupee vis-a-vis the dollar by
around 4 percent in the year to mid-July2003.
Financial markets were characterized by general weakness in equity prices, coupled with a
sustained rally inbond markets. Stock market developments in India have generally been weak, but
have improved measurably since April 2003 along with global and regional equity markets. In
contrast, bond markets have witnessed a sustained rally. Easy liquidity conditions, coupled with
weak investment demand and structural reforms that have deepened government securities markets,

' Under  Articled IV of the IMF's Articles o f Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members, usually every
year.  A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the
country's economic developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the
basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the conclusion o f the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of
the Boards, summarizesthe views of the Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the country's authorities.

                                                                                                           Annex G
                                                                                                         Page 2 of 6
resulted in a sharp decline in interest rates to historical lows, notwithstanding the large government
borrowing needs. These conditions also allowed a lengthening o f the maturity o f government debt,
and led to a flattening o f the yield curve and a narrowing o f spreads between government and
corporate bonds, across the maturity and credit quality spectrum.
Monetary and exchange rate policy was aimed at maintaining easy liquidity conditions while also
attempting to limit volatility in the rupee and stem its appreciation. Since April 2002, the bank
rate-the   key policy signaling rate-has         been reduced by 50 bps to 6 percent, the rep0 rate by 100
bps to 5 percent, and the cash reserve ratio (CRR) by 1percentage point to 4% percent. At the same
time, the RBI continued its policy to contain volatility in the exchange rate, with the effect o f
limiting the appreciation o f the rupee. This intervention in foreign exchange markets was
accompanied by sterilization operations. The authorities also used the opportunity provided by the
strong reserve position to further open up the capital account, prepay some external debt, and offer
debt reliefto HPC nations.
General government fiscal imbalances in 2002/03 are likely to be worse than expected in the
budget, The provisional estimate i s for a central government deficit (including privatization receipts
inrevenues) o f 5.9 percent o f GDP, compared with the budget target of 5.3 percent o f GDP. The
outcome for the subnational governments in 2002/03 i s also likely to be worse than expected-the
staff estimates a deficit o f over 4% percent o f GDP, compared with a budget target o f 4 percent o f
GDP. Revenue shortfalls were the main factors underlying the weaker-than-planned outcome,
notwithstanding some expenditure compression. Consequently, the general government deficit in
2002/03 i s estimated to be about 10 percent o f GDP and general government debt about 85 percent
of GDP. Contingent liabilities in the form o f central and state government guarantees stand at
around 12 percent of GDP.
The budget for 2003/04, announced in February 2003, makes little headway in checkmg fiscal
imbalances. The deficit i s to be reduced by only about !A percent o f GDP to 5.6 percent o f GDP in
2003/04.2 On the revenue side, the budget includes some measures to improve tax administration,
but does little to reduce exemptions. The budget also expects to collect some Rs. 132 billion (%
percent o f GDP) inprivatization revenues, compared with about Rs. 30 billion actually realized in
2002/03. There were only a few measures aimed at containing expenditure. A central plank o f the
budget i s the promotion o f infi-astructure projects worth Rs. 600 billion (2% percent o f GDP) over
the medium term. These projects are to be undertaken throughspublic-private partnerships, with the
government expecting to contribute Rs.20 billion annually.
The budget also contains several proposals aimed at taking advantage o f the l o w interest rate
environment to restructure the debt obligations o f both the central and state governments. The
central and state governments have agreed that, over a three year period ending in 2004/05, all
states' debt owed to the central government carrying interest rates in excess of 13 percent will be
swapped for additional proceeds from small savings and market loans, both o f which currently have
lower interest rates. Inaddition, the government also offered a scheme to buy back banks' holdings
of central government securities which were contracted under highinterest rates o f the early 1990s.
These securities are to be bought back on a voluntary basis from banks that are in need o f liquidity
or want to encash the premium on their bond holdings for malung provisions on their
nonperforming assets (NPAs). T o provide the incentive for banks to do the latter, the authorities
have allowed a tax deduction on the premium income ifbanks use it to increase provisions.
The staff projects that the economy will grow at 5% percent in 2003/04, broadly in line with
consensus forecasts, but there i s some upside potential to this projection. Early indications are for
good monsoon rainfall. The projection for 2003/04 incorporates a recovery in agriculture, but there


  On the staffs definition-excludingprivatizationreceipts from revenues-the deficits would be broadly unchangedin
2003/04 relative to 2002/03.

                                                                                               Annex G
                                                                                            Page 3 of 6
i s potential for an even stronger rebound in this sector. Inflation i s expected to moderate to around
4%percent by end-2003/04. The external current account is projectedto remain insurplus.
ExecutiveBoard Assessment
Executive Directors viewed the recent resilience o f the Indian economy as testimony to the benefits
o f the reforms undertaken since the early 1990s. They noted that, despite a weak global
environment and a severe drought during 2002-03, the economy grew at a rate that compares
favorably with that o f most other countries. Directors welcomed the significant strengthening o f
India's extemal position-manifest     inthe highlevel of reserves and low external vulnerability. At
the same time, Directors noted that the slowdown in growth since the mid-1990s is of concern
because o f its implications for poverty reduction. They reiterated the view that higher, sustained
output and employment growth rests on pushing ahead with fiscal consolidation and critical
structural reforms. Some Directors asked for further study on isolating the cyclical and structural
factors affecting growth.
Directors stressed that India's large fiscal deficits and public debt are exacting an economic cost in
terms o f foregone growth. Despite the apparent ease with which the fiscal deficit has been financed,
they noted the detrimental effects on growth through crowding out o f critically needed spending on
physical and social capital and through the preemption of resources for private investment.
Directors pointed out that the large fiscal imbalances leave little room for maneuver in the face o f
shocks and have tended to result in ad hoc policy changes, which increase investment uncertainty.
They believed that the authorities should use the favorable external and interest rate environment to
build the necessary political consensus for accelerating needed fiscal and structural adjustments.
Directors noted that the strategy o f postponing consolidation while attempting to stimulate growth
i s risky, and that few countries have had success in growing out o f severe fiscal problems without
implementing a comprehensive reformprogram.
Directors looked forward to passage o f the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM)
bill, and welcomed steps to advance implementation o f provisions of the FRBM. They noted that
the FRBM would bring important discipline and transparency to the central government budget
process and enable the authorities to draw up a clear and time-bound plan for restoring fiscal
sustainability. They urged early introduction o f medium-term fiscal plans and targets, anchored by
clearly specified fiscal rules that can be enforced. Directors noted that fiscal adjustment needs to
focus on revenue mobilization through widening the tax net and simplifying the tax system. In
particular, the range o f exemptions should be narrowed and the scope for discretion reduced.
Directors also encouraged the authorities to use the recommendations in the various reports on tax
and expenditure reform that have been prepared in recent years to draw up a roadmap for fiscal
reforms with explicit timetables.
Directors recognized that some important initiatives have been undertaken to strengthen state
finances inrecent years, including the use o f performance-based transfers from the center, limits on
government guaranteed loans, and the introduction o f fiscal responsibility legislation by some
 states. Nevertheless, Directors pointed out that state finances have improved only moderately,
 suggesting that much more needs to be done, including in the areas o f reforming the tax system,
divesting public enterprises, and reducing subsidies and losses in the power sector. Inthis context,
Directors regretted the delay in the introduction o f the value added tax (VAT). They urged that top
priority be given to developing the necessary consensus to implement the VAT within the current
 fiscal year, with the central government launching a concerted campaign jointly with the states
 about the VAT's benefits.
With inflationary pressures under control, Directors viewed the maintenance o f easy monetary
 conditions as appropriate. They welcomed recent cuts in administered savings rates and policy
rates, noting these should allow banks to lower lending and deposit rates and narrow the
rupeeidollar interest rate differential. However, Directors noted that administered interest rates and

                                                                                              Annex G
                                                                                            Page 4 of 5
directed lending reduce the effectiveness o f monetary policy and hinder financial development.
Many Directors encouraged a clearly specified        automatic link between administered rates and
market rates to prevent a prolongedmisalignment o f interest rates.

Directors noted that, going forward, the scope for continued sterilized intervention could narrow
and make the task o f managing the monetary impact o f balance o f payments inflows increasingly
difficult. Several Directors cautioned that the current strategy could inadvertently expose the system
to more risk-through    further increases in interest-sensitive inflows and unhedged foreign currency
exposure in the corporate sector. They welcomed recent measures to facilitate and encourage
hedging, but noted that such measures would be most effective ifmarket players perceive the need
to undertake such hedging activities. While a few Directors noted the potential implication o f
exchange rate appreciation, most Directors encouraged the authorities to gradually allow greater
flexibility inthe exchange rate.
Directors saw the continued strength in the external accounts as a good opportunity to further
liberalize external transactions. They welcomed measures to liberalize capital account transactions,
but going forward, encouraged deeper trade reforms. Directors singledout the need to simplify the
trade regime by lowering tariffs, introducing a more uniform duty structure, significantly reducing
exemptions and eliminating administrative barriers. They welcomed India's decision to grant debt
relief under the enhanced HIPC Initiative.
Directors commended the steady progress made in moving ahead with financial sector reforms.
They welcomed the introduction of risk-based supervision and implementation o f a prompt
corrective action framework for commercial banks. They encouraged the introduction o f time limits
on remedial actions inthe latter, so as to increase the framework's effectiveness. Directors also saw
a need to broaden the scope of the market for interest rate derivatives and to tighten the regulatory
treatment of state-government guaranteedloans.

Directors welcomed the recent reforms aimed at providing a comprehensive framework to clean up
banks' impaired assets and strengthen their underlying finances. In particular, Directors saw the
passage o f the SecuritizationAct, the issuance o f the accompanying guidelines by the Reserve Bank
of India, and the amendments to the Companies Act creating the National Company L a w Tribunal
as important steps. To give full effect to these reforms, they encouraged early repeal o f the Sick
Industrial Companies Act and steps to ensure that borrowers are not able to obtain unduly long
protection against collateral enforcement under the new tribunal.
Directors encouraged the authorities to advance the timetable for bringing India's classification and
provisioning standards in line with international best practice. They viewed the government's new
debt buyback scheme with banks, as well as banks' improved profitability and the new
securitization framework, as a good opportunity to shorten the timeframe for classifying loans as
doubtful and for buildingprovisions needed under the new norms. Directors commended the recent
passage o f the anti-money-laundering law, and urged the authorities to complete the questionnaire
on money laundering and terrorism financing.
Directors also encouraged further steps to strengthen the performance and efficiency o f the banking
system, including reducing government ownership and improving the commercial orientation o f
public sector banks. Some Directors noted that raising the foreign direct investment limit inprivate
banks and lifting the restrictions on voting rights would be complementary steps to strengthen
competition in the banking system. Directors also saw the need for a clearer strategy on the future
role o f development finance institutions, given their weak overall financial condition. Owing to the
current fiscal situation and need to contain systemic risk, they encouraged the authorities to move
away from government-orchestrated rescue packages o f these institutions, with little conditionality.

Directors viewed sustainedprogress on other reforms also as critical to improving growth prospects
and generating job opportunities. They welcomed recent steps to further decontrol fertilizer

                                                                                              Annex G
                                                                                             Page 5 of 6
distnbution and the planned introduction o f a pricing system to discourage inefficient fertilizer
production. However, Directors called for early action on lifting restrictions on agncultural
marketing and trade and reforming the public distnbution system, minimum support prices, and
fertilizer subsidies. As for industry,they welcomed the removal o f key goods from the list reserved
for small-scale industries, the enactment o f a more modem competition bill, and the passage o f a
new Electricity Bill allowing the power sector to be opened up to greater competition. Directors
encouraged further progress with small-scale dereservation, and on reforming labor laws to allow
more flexibility, reflectingmarket conditions.
Directors noted the promising start to the process o f privatization in the first half o f 2002/03, and
encouraged publicizing the benefits o f previous divestment to buildpopular support for this reform.
They also supported the authorities' proposal to create a fund for divestment receipts, to be used for
debt reduction and identified development programs, rather than for recurrent spending.

Directors welcomed the smooth operation o f periodic price adjustments for diesel and petrol. Going
forward, they encouraged the authorities to formulate an explicit strategy to deal with episodes
when oil prices temporarily move out o f a normal range.
Directors commended India for completing assessments under most o f the Fund's standards and
codes. They welcomed India's subscription to the SDDS, but urged that priority be given to
addressing shortcomings in the timeliness and coverage o f fiscal data to support the objective o f
fiscal consolidation. They also encouraged the authorities to facilitate early completion o f the
Statistics ROSC report.

                                                                                                                Annex G
                                                                                                              Page G of G

                                      India: Selected Economic Indicators          I'
                                          1998199       1999100       2000101    2001102      2002103
                                                                  (Inpercent)
Domestic economy
Change in real GDP at factor cost               6.5           6.1          4.4        5.6         4.3
Change in industrial production                 4.1           6.6          5.0        2.7         5.8
Change inwholesale prices                       6.0           3.4          7.1        3.4         3.6
Change in consumer prices                     13.1            3.4          3.8        4.3         4.0
                                                         (Inbillions ofU.S.dollars)
Extemal economy
Merchandise exports "                         34.3          37.5          44.9       44.9         53.0
Merchandise imports "                         47.5          55.4          59.3       57.6         65.5
Current account balance                       -4.0          -4.7          -3.6        0.8          3.7
(Inpercent ofGDP)                             -1.0           -1.1         -0.8        0.2          0.7
Direct investment, net 31                       2.4           2.1          3.3        4.7          3.6
Portfolio investment, net                      -0.1           3.0          2.6        2.0          0.9
Capital account balance                         8.4         10.4          10.0        10.6        12.6
Gross official reserves41                     32.5          38.0          42.3       54.1         75.4
(Inmonths ofimports) "                          5.8           6.0          6.9        7.7          9.2
Extemal debt (inpercent o f GDP)  41          23.4          22.0          21.9       20.5         20.16/
Short-term debt (inpercent o f GDP) 41          2.7           2.8          2.3         3.0         3.0
71

Debt service ratio (inpercent o f             19.1           17.8         15.3         9.5        14.1
current account receipts)
Change inreal effective exchange               -4.6            1.1         6.2         1.7        -5.66`
rate (in percent) 41
                                                                  (Inpercent)
Financial variables
Central govemment balance (in                  -5.5          -5.5         -5.7        -6.3        -6.06'
percent o f GDP) "
General govemment balance (in                  -8.8          -9.9         -9.9       -10.5       -10.06`
percent o f GDP)
Change inbank credit to commercial             14.5          18.3         15.8        11.3        19.6
sector
Change inbroad money 4'                        19.4          14.6         16.8        14.2        15.0
Interest rate41 91                              8.7            9.2         8.7         6.1         5.9

Sources; Reserve Bank o f India; Ministry o f Finance; CEIC; Intemational Financial Statistics; and IMFstaff estimates.
  Data are for April-March fiscal years, as available at the time o f the Board Meeting for the 2003 Article IV consultation
(July 18, 2003).
"Balanceofpaymentsbasis.
3'Net foreign direct investment inIndialess net foreign investment abroad.
4'End o fperiod.
"Importsofgoodsandservicesprojectedoverthefollowingtwelvemonths.
61Staff estimates for 2002103.
'IResidual maturity basis, except contracted maturity basis for medium- and long-term nonresident Indian accounts.
"Excludingdivestmentreceiptsfromrevenueandonlendingofsmallsavingcollections fromexpenditureandnet
lending.
9/91-day Treasury Bill rate.

                                                                                                                            Annex H
                                                                                                                        Page 1of 6

                                           India at a dance                                                              9/20/04



POVERNand SOCIAL                                                South    LOW-
                                                         India   Asia  income       Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population,mid-year(miliionsJ                          1,064.4  1,425    2,310                   Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                         540    510      450
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        569.8    726     1,038                          7


Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population (%J                                             1.6    1 8      1.9
Laborforce (%J                                             2.1    2.3      2 3      GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                    per                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199743)                                capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyIIneJ         29
Urban population(% of totalpopulationJ                     28      28      30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                            63      63      58                           1
infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                     65      68      82
Child malnutrition (% of children under5J                  47      48      44             Access to improvedwater source
                                                                                     -
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)        84      84       75
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 75+J                        39      41      39
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)       99      95       92
    Male                                                  107     103       99             India          Low-income group

    Female                                                 90      80       85

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983   1993    2002    2003
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                   Economicratios.
                                                 212.3  273.9   510.2    603.3
Gross domesticinvestmenffGDP                      19.7    21.3   22.8     23 8
Exports of goods and servicesIGDP                  6.0    10.0   15.2     14.5                         Trade
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                         17.6    22.5   24.2     22.2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         18.4    23.1   26.3     24.4                           T


Current account balance/GDP                       -1.7    0.6     0.7      1.4
Interest paymentsfGDP                              0.4     1.3    0.7     18.3      Domestic                         Investment
Total debffGDP                                    15.1    34.4   20.6     19.6      savings
Total debt service/exports                        16.5    25.2   13.9     18.3
Present value of debffGDP                                                                                1

Present value of debffexports
                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                       1983-93 1993-03   2002    2003  200347
(average annualgrowthl
GDP                                       5.4      5.9     4.6    8.3      6.0          -
GDP per capita                            3.3      4.2     3.0    6.7      4.6              India        - Low-incomegroup

Exportsof goods and services              8.0     13.4    21.8    7.0      9.2


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1983   Igg3 2o02        Zoo3       Growth of investmentand GDP (Oh)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                      III
Agriculture                                       36.6    31.0   22.7     22.2      ' 5 T
Industry                                          25.8    26.3   26.6     26.6      10
    Manufacturing                                 16.3    16.1   15.6      15.8
Services                                          37.6    42.8   50.7     51.2

Private consumption                               71.8    67.4   65.0     64.9     1  O'    98      99    00     01    02    d3
General governmentconsumption                     10.6    11.4   12.5      12.8
Importsof goods and services                       8.1    10.0   15.6      16.0                 "GDI           *GDP



                                               1983-93           2o02     2003
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                        3.1     2.4    -5.2     9.1      30

Industry                                           6.4     5.9     6.4     6.7      20
    Manufacturing                                  6.1     6.0     6.2     7.3
Services                                           6.7     8.1     7.1     8.7      ' O


Privateconsumption                                 5.2     4.5    -0.8     7.6
General governmentconsumption                      5.6     7.1     3.1     9.9   -10
Gross domestic investment                          5.3     7.5     9.5     12.0             ----Exports        *imports

                                                                                                                     Annex H
                                                                                                                   Page 2 of 6

                                                 Statistical Annex

                                                                                                                     India

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1983    1993    2002    2003
Domestic prices
(X change)
Consumer prices                           14.4      5.0     4.1     3.7
implicit GDP deflator                       8.9     9.5     3.5     3.7

Government Finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..   17.5    17.5   18.7              98    99       00      01      02
Current budget balance                        ..   -4.3    -6.0    -4.9
Overall sumius/deficit                        ..   -8.3   -10.2    -9.3             -GDP       deflator  +CPI


TRADE
                                          1983    1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                               Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                      9,861   22,683  52,512 62,952
 Tea                                       348     814    1,432  1,321    loo'ooo T
 Iron                                      434     888    1,996  2,341
 Manufactures                            5,234   16,657  40,245 47,616
Total imports (cif)                      16,575  26,739  65,422 79,658
 Food                                    1,694      327   2,411  3,059
 Fuel and energy                         4,703    5,754  17,640 20,570
 Capital goods                           3,069    6,243  13,498 17,132

Export price index (1995=100)               101     104      88     93
import price index (1995=100)               106      96      96    100                      Exports          Imports      I
Terms of trade (1995-100)                   96      109      92     94

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1983    1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                              Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services            13,141  27,947  77,475 90,568
Imports of goods and services            18,767  31,468  83,620 96,590      ' T
Resource balance                         -5,626  -3,521  -6,145  -6,022

Net income                                -527   -3,270  -4,935  -4,703
Net current transfers                     2,558   5,265  14,807  18,885

Current account balance                  -3,595  -1,526   3,727   8,160

Financing items (net)                     2,777  10,160  13,253   8,820
Changes in net reserves                     818  -8,634 -16,980 -16,980

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)     5,649  19,254  75,428 111,648
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           10.3    31.4    48.4    46.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1983    1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                             j Compositionof 2003 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      32,139  94,342 105,210 118,075
  IBRD                                    1,779  10,123   5,141   4,128
  IDA                                     7,820  16,192  21,642  22,632

Total debt service                        2.618   8,345  13,042  20,545
  IBRD                                      246   1,509   3,029   2,048
  IDA                                        91     294     637     693
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                           380     368     410     559
  Official creditors                      1,360   1,754  -3,657  -2,765
  Private creditors                       1,318   2,634  -1,861  -1,983
  Foreign direct investment                   0     668   3,611   3,137
  Portfolio equity                            0   3,567     944  11,355

World Bank program
  Commitments                             1,072     929   1,523   1,169      A IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           1,345   1,716   1,465   1,557      B IDA
                                                                               --      D Other multilateral  F Private
  Principal repayments                      120     964   3,196   2,403      C IMF
                                                                               -                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                ---
  Net flows                               1,225     753  -1,730    -846
  Interest payments                         216     838     470     338
  Net transfers                           1,009     -86  -2,200  -1,184


Development Economics                                                                                                9/20/04

                                                                 Annex H
                                                                Page 3 of 6




IndiaSocialIndicators
           Fabst singleyaw           same reglonlincbrmgroup


                                            south        LOW-
     lQT&?K     1 9 W 6   Wb2002             Asia      inwmp


       813.5       765.1    1,OW.G         1,40'.5     2.494.6
         2.5        21         1.7             1 8         1.9
        31,3       24.3       28.1            21.0       '30.6
         5.3        4.2        2.9             3.2         3.5



                              z8.6
                              2d.?
                              N . 2


         190        W U        470            460          430
           21        41        1%
                     36        134


                               32.5
                               E.8
                               41.6



                                0.8             1.0         1.1
          2.5        3.3        4.1            2.3          8.1




           60                   .J3              a2          ail
           12                   91               a8          85
           48                    76              75          74


                                 84              84          ?$
                                 95              534         90
                                 79              80          70


                        1        67              Eli         5
                      18         70              7D          F5
                                 43              46          42


           52         57         liB             153         59
         . 5 2        57         83              62          93
           51         57         64              64          En

          127        119         65              68           10
          202        173         00              sti        12!

          324        28:        356             YY2         310
          353        279        l#l             2c2         259
                                2dV              . .I

                                 43              38

                                                                                                              Annex H
                                                                                                             Page 4 of6




                                            India - Key EconomicIndicators


                                                              Actual               Estimate         Projected
                 Indicator                      1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07
National accounts (as YOof GDP)
Gross domestic producta                            100.0     100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0
  Agriculture                                       26.2      24.6    25.0    22.7     22.2    20.8     20.3     19.8
  Industry                                          25.9      26.6    25.7    26.6     26.6    26.4      26.5    26.7
  Services                                          47.9      48.8    49.4    50.7     51.2    52.7      53.2    53.5
Total Consumption                                   78.3      78.1    78.3    77.5     77.7    77.2      77.1    76.5
Gross domestic fixed investment                     21.8      22.0    21.9    22.5     22.8    23.4      23.6    24.0
  Government investment                              6.2       6.1     5.5     5.8      5.4     5.5       5.5     5.6
  Private investment                                15.6      15.9    16.4    16.7     17.4    17.9      18.1    18.4

~ x p o r t s(GNFS~                                 11.8      13.9    13.5    15.2     14.5    16.4      17.3    18.1
Imports (GNFS)                                      13.7      14.6    14.1    15.6     16.0    17.9      18.9    19.5
Gross domestic savings                              21.7      21.9    21.7    22.5     22.3    22.8      22.9    23.5
Gross national savings'                             23.6      23.9    23.7    24.6     24.5    24.2      24.6    25.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                           446968    457377   478524  510240  603286   666946   727707   190276
(US$ million at current prices)
GNIper capita (US$, Atlas method)                   440       450      460    470      540      590      650      700
Real annual growthrates ("?,      calculated from 1993 prices)
  Gross domestic product at market prices            7.1       3.9     5.2     4.6      8.3     5.6       6.5     6.0
  Gross Domestic Income                              5.5       3.0     4.8     2.5      7.7     5.8       6.4     5.9
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
  Gross domestic product at market prices            5.3       2.2     3.5     3.0      6.7     4.1       5.1     4.7
  Total consumption                                  3.1      -2.4     4.0    -1.8      6.4     3.8       4.3     3.3
  Private consumption                                1.7      -2.7     4.5    -2.4      6.0     4.2       4.5     3.2
Balance o f Payments (US% millions)
 EXPOITS (GNFS)~                                   53251     63764   65580   77475   90568   109308   125901   142911
    Merchandise FOB                                37542    44894    44915   52512   62952    76705    88747   101263
  Imports (GNFS)~                                  67028     75656   73706   83620   96590   119520   137702   154109
    Merchandise FOB                                55383     59264   57618   65422   79658    98435   113795   127540
 Resource balance                                 -13777    -11892   -8126   -6145    -6022  -10213   -11801   -11198
 Net current transfers                             12256     12798   12125   14807    18885   18406    20388    20165
 Current account balance                           -5080     -3926     398    3727     8160    -936       608    2152
 Netprivate foreign direct investment               2165      3272    4741    3611     3137    4020      4700    3451
 Long-term loans (net)                              1214      4147    -459   -4804    -1857    1558     -1675     472
   Official                                         1068      -237     365   -3657     2231    1908      1586    1280
   Private                                           146      4384    -824   -1147    -4088    -350     -3261    -808
 Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)     7237      2363    7077   14446     7540   15463      9732    6806
 Change inreservesd                                -5536     -5856  -11757  -16980  -16980   -20105   -13365   -12882
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% o f GDP)                        -3.1      -2.6     -1.7    -1.2     -1.0    -1.5      -1.6    -1.4
Real annual growth rates ( YR93 prices)
 Merchandise exports (FOB)                          14.2      22.0      5.5   18.3     10.2      9.4     19.8     15.0
 Merchandise imports (CIF)                           9.4      -0.9     4.9      9.5    19.7      8.9     23.5     14.7

                                                                                                          Annex H
                                                                                                         Page 5 of 6




                                      India Key Economic Indicators
                                               -
                                                      (Continued)


                                                            Actual                Estimate       Projected
                 Indicator                  1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07

Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
 Currentrevenues                                11.5        11.1       11.7   11.5    18.1   19.6     19.9  20.2
 Current expenditures                           24.0        24.6       24.3   23.5    23.6   24.3    23.9   23.1
 Current accountsurplus (+) or deficit (-)       -6.5       -6.9       -6.6   -6.0    -4.9   -4.7     -4.0   -3.5
 Capital expenditure                              3.3        3.O        3.5   4.2      4.4    4.1     4.8     5.0
Foreignfinancing                                  0.0        0.3        0.6   -0.5    -0.4    0.3      0.3    0.3

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP                                         58.0        62.8       65.1   69.9    11.5   72.2     73.0   74.1
 Growthof M 2 (%)                                14.6       16.7       14.4   15.0    14.8   11.8     12.6   12.4
 Private sector credit growth I                 62.3        55.0       52.9   62.1  -115.7   58.1     12.2   14.0
 total credit growth (%)

Priceindices(YR93 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index                 92.2        90.4       85.7   84.7    92.2  102.6     99.1   98.3
 Merchandiseimport price index                 111.1      119.9        111.1 115.3    117.2 133.1    124.6  121.7
 Merchandiseterms of trade index                 83.0       15.4       17.1   13.5    18.6   71.1     79.6   80.8
 Real exchangerate (US$/LCU)'                   66.5        68.4       68.4   74.3    12.6    0.0      0.0    0.0
 Realinterest rates
 Consumerprice index (% change)                   3.3        3.9        3.1    4.1     3.7    4.9      4.3    4.3
 GDP deflator (%change)                           3.8        3.8        3.9    3.5      3.1   4.8      4.5    4.5



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMFresources.
e. Consolidatedcentral government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currencyunits.'' An increase inUSSILCUdenotesappreciation.

                                                                                                         Annex H
                                                                                                        Page 6 of 6




                                     India - Key Exposure Indicators


                                                    Actual                   Estimate           Projected
              Indicator                1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07

Total debt outstandingand               98313     99098    97516     105210   115277    121456   128446   137671
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (uS$m)a                 -443      3867    -1204      -5518   11048      6179      6989   9225


Total debt service (TDS)                  9845     10842     9327     13043    14469     11337     17510   16091
(US$m)a


Debt anddebt serviceindicators
("/I
  TDO~XGS~                               148.4      127.0   121.9      112.0     109.6    102.5      96.0   94.1
  TDOiGDP                                  22.0     21.7     20.4       20.6      18.9     18.6      18.2   18.0
  TDSiXGS                                   14.9     13.9     11.7      13.9      13.8       9.6     13.1   11.0
  Concessional/TDO                         45.4     37.9     37.8       38.2


IBRD exposure indicators(%)
  IBRD DSipublicDS                          19.6     11.5     16.0      24.8      17.2       6.8      3.7    7.9
  PreferredcreditorDSipublic                30.0    26.6      25.5      49.2      15.5     23.9      14.2   25.6
  DS ("?)'
  IBRD DSiXGS                                2.5      1.4       1.7      3.2       2.0       0.5      0.4    0.5
  IBRD TDO (US$mld                       7509      6915     7015       5141     4324      5058      6123   7520
  Share o f IBRD portfolio (%)               6.2      5.8       5.7      4.4       3.9       4.7      5.7    7.0
  IDA TDO (US$m)d                        18918     18813    20402      21642    22572     22782     22900  22903


IFC (US$m)                               686.0      677.7    804.0      782.0    782.0     ..
  Loans                                     436      412       512       498      503      ..
  Equity and quasi-equity IC                250      266       292       284      279      ..

MIGA
  MIGA guarantees (USSm)



a. Includespublic andpublicly guaranteed debt, privatenonguaranteed, use of IMF credits andnet short-
   term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, includingworkers'remittances.
c. Preferredcreditors are definedas IBRD, IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopmentbanks, the IMF, andthe
   Bank for IntemationalSettlements.
d. Includespresentvalue o f guarantees.
e. Includes equity andquasi-equitytypes o f bothloanand equity instruments.

