                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR2365


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-44790)


                                     ON A


                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR9.3 MILLION
                       (US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                    TO THE


                          REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON


                                     FOR A


 TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                  June 27, 2013




Public Sector Reform and Governance Unit, AFTP3
Country Management Unit, AFCC1

Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)
                            Currency Unit=XAF
                           US$ 1.00 = XAF 498.00

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       African Development Bank
AFRITAC    Africa Regional Technical Assistance Centers
ANTILOPE   Application Nationale pour le Traitement Informatique et Logistique des
           Personnels de l’Etat (Computerized System of Administrative and Logistics
           Management for State Personnel)
ARMP       Agence de Régulation des Marchés Publics (Regulatory Agency for Public
           Procurement)
BEAC       Banque des Etats d’Afrique Centrale (Bank of Central African States)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CEMAC      Communauté Economique et Monétaire d’Afrique Centrale(Economic and
           Monetary Community of Central Africa)
CPIA       Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CONAC      Commission Nationale Anti-Corruption (National Anti-Corruption
           Commission)
CONSUPE    Contrôle Supérieur de l’Etat (State Superior Audit Institution)
CSO        Civil Society Organization
DGB        Direction Générale du Budget (Budget Directorate)
DGT        Direction Générale du Trésor (Treasury Directorate)
DRFi       Direction des Affaires Financières
DPL        Development Policy Lending
DSCE       Document Stratégique pour la Croissance et l’Emploi (Growth and
           Employment Strategic Paper)
EITI       Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
EoI        Expression of Interest
EC         European Commission
FM         Financial Management
FMIS       Financial Management Information System
FMS        Financial Management Specialist
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GIZ        Deutsche Gesellschaftfür Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German
           International Cooperation Agency)
GoC        Government of Cameroon
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HRM        Human Resource Management
ICR        Internal Completion Report

                                                                                ii
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INS      Institut National de la Statistique (National Institute of Statistics)
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Reports
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MINEPAT  Ministère de l’Economie et de la Planification Territoriale (Ministry of
         EconomicAffairs, Programming and Regional Development)
MINFI    Ministère des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MINFOPRA Ministère de la Fonction Publique et des Réformes Administratives
         (Ministry of Public Service and Administrative Reforms)
MINMAP   Ministère des Marchés Publics (Ministry of Public Procurement)
MTEF     Medium Term Expenditure Framework
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEFA     Public Expenditure & Financial Accountability
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PETS     Public Expenditures Tracking Survey
PFM      Public Financial Management
PFMDSC   Public Financial Management Dialogue Steering Committee
PFMDTS   Public Financial Management Dialogue Technical Secretariat
PFMRAP   Public Financial Management Reform Action Plan
PFMSC    Public Financial Management Steering Committee
PFMTS    Public Financial Management Technical Secretariat
PNG      Programme National de Gouvernance (National Governance Program)
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSM      Public Sector Management
SIL      Sector Investment Loan
SIGIPES  Système Informatique de Gestion Intégrée des Personnels de 1'Etat
         (Computerized System of Integrated Management of State Personnel)
TA       Technical Assistance
TACD     Transparency and Accountability Capacity Development
TOR      Terms of Reference
TTL      Task Team Leader
            Vice President:              Makhtar Diop
            Country Director:            Gregor Binkert
            Sector Manager:              Mark Roland Thomas
            Project Team Leader:         Alexandre Arrobbio
            ICR Team Leader:             Alexandre Arrobbio
            ICR Primary Author:          Abel Paul Basile Bove



                                                                             iii
Contents
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 10 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 15 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 20 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 25 
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 26 
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ..................................................................................... 27 
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 32 
Annex 4:Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................. 33 
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 35 
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 36 
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 37 
Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 37 
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 39 
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 46 




                                                                                                                                      iv
                                       CAMEROON
TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Transparency and
                                                                       Accountability
Country:                Cameroon                Project Name:
                                                                       Capacity Building
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P084160                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-44790
ICR Date:               06/27/2013              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                       CAMEROON
Original Total
                        XDR 9.30M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 2.67M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.18M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Secrétariat Technique du Comité de Pilotage de la Réforme des Finances Publiques
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/31/2004     Effectiveness:          06/05/2009        06/05/2009
Appraisal:            03/18/2008     Restructuring(s):                         12/04/2012
Approval:             06/24/2008     Mid-term Review:        07/31/2011        07/25/2011
                                     Closing:                12/31/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Unsatisfactory       Government:         Unsatisfactory

                                                                                            v
                                                     Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Unsatisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       85                  90
General public administration sector                                    15                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 25                  5
Other public sector governance                                          25                  5
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                        50                  90
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Gregor Binkert                       Mary A. Barton-Dock
Sector Manager:              Mark Roland Thomas                   Anand Rajaram
Project Team Leader:         Alexandre Arrobbio                   Mamadou Lamarane Deme
ICR Team Leader:             Alexandre Arrobbio
ICR Primary Author:          Abel Paul Basile Bove

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective (PDO) is to contribute (i) to enhance transparency and
efficiency in public financial management, and (ii) to strengthen accountability in the use

                                                                                                   vi
of public resource. The project will play a key role in Cameroon in accelerating the pace
toward a more orderly and open PFM and thus more efficient service delivery.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                  Availibility of information on resources received by service delivery units (PEFA
Indicator 1 :
                  PI-23)
Value
                  D (Source: PEFA           C (source: PETS2
quantitative or                                                               C
                  Report, 2007)             report, 2011)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                   12/31/2012
Comments          No new PEFA report. However, PETS2 report on 2009 budget was published in
(incl. %          dec. 2010 (NSI website in 2011). No new PETS exercize was produced in 2010,
achievement)      2011 or 2012.
Indicator 2 :     Public access to key fiscal information (PEFA PI-10)
Value
                  B (Source: PEFA Report, A (Source: PEFA
quantitative or                                                               B+
                  2007)                   Report)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2007               12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
                  Not met.
Comments
                  No new PEFA report. Assessment based on information provided by experts in
(incl. %
                  the field. Improvements are not significant enough to change the PEFA rating
achievement)
                  category.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
                Legal and regulatory texts to enforce the new Budget Law are signed and
Indicator 1 :
                effective.
                                           Decree on new
                                           budget                            Decree on new
Value           Application texts have not
                                           nomenclature                      budget
(quantitative   been drafted yet (first
                                           including                         nomenclature not
or Qualitative) quarter 2008)
                                           programs, signed                  drafted.
                                           and effective
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments        Not met. Nonetheless, in 2012 presidential circulars were published on 2013
(incl. %        Budget preparation and execution monitoring. They included procedures and
achievement) guidelines on program budgeting. Draft decree on budget calendar was submitted


                                                                                                vii
               to presidency in 2011.
Indicator 2 :  Completeness of the financial statements (in French, Loi de Reglement) (PI-25 i)
Value
                D (Source: PEFA           B (Source: PEFA                    D+ (Source: own
(quantitative
                Report, 2007)             Report)                            assessment)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
                Not met. No new PEFA report.
Comments
                (Assessment based on information provided by experts in the field with regards
(incl. %
                to LR 2011. Financial statement improved but not significantly enough to change
achievement)
                PEFA rating)
                Percentage of investment projects which are domestically financed in annual
Indicator 3 :
                budget compliant with the new project legal and procedures framework.
Value                                     Number of
                Number of Projects: 0
(quantitative                             Project: >=                        N/A
                percent
or Qualitative)                           20 percent
Date achieved 06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Control steps in expeditor chain
Value
(quantitative   22                        8                                  22
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/09/2006                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        No indication of change.
achievement)
                Percentage of contracts above threshold procured through open competition, in
Indicator 5 : selected ministries (Health, Education, Agriculture, Public Works, and Finance).
                (PI-19 i, modified).
Value           (To be determined by
(quantitative   project effectiveness) In 100 percent                        N/A
or Qualitative) Francs CFA value
Date achieved 12/31/2007                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Never evaluated.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Timeliness of the issue of semi-annual budget reports (PI-24 ii)
Value
                D (Source: PEFA           B (Source: PEFA                    D (source: own
(quantitative
                Report, 2007)             Report)                            assessment)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
                No PEFA report.
(incl. %
                Semi-annual budget reports are produced, but delay is superior then 8 weeks.
achievement)
                Degree of integration and reconciliation between personnel records and payroll
Indicator 7 :
                data. (PI-18 i)
Value           D (source: PEFA           B (source: PEFA                    D+ (source: own

                                                                                           viii
(quantitative   Report, 2007)              Report)                             assessment)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
                No structural change in using the HR and Payroll databases are effective and
Comments
                systematic yet. D+ indicate the gradual efforts since 2005 in cleaning
(incl. %
                progressively the SIGIPES-ANTILOPES databases. Merging of the 2 databases
achievement)
                is in preparation.
Indicator 8 : Scope of the legislature scrutiny of the annual budget law. (PI-27-i)
Value
                C (Source: PEFA Report, B (Source: PEFA                        C (source: own
(quantitative
                2007)                      Report, 2007)                       assessment)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
Comments
                No indication that value has changed from baseline at Nov. 2012 parliament
(incl. %
                session.
achievement)
                Timeliness of the release of semi-annual budget reports on available media
Indicator 9 :
                (government websites, national newspapers)
                                                                               Semi-annual budget
                No publication of
                                                                               reports published in
Value           semiannual
                                           Timeliness: 2                       Cameroon Tribune
(quantitative   budget reports in PM
                                           months                              only;
or Qualitative) websites and Cameroon
                                                                               Timeliness: 3
                Tribune.
                                                                               months
Date achieved 06/30/2008                   12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
                Not met.
Comments
                Semi-annual 2012 budget report was published in Cameroon Tribune newspaper
(incl. %
                on sept. 2012. Not available on PM, DGT, MINEPAT or Presidency websites
achievement)
                however.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     09/05/2008        Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                       0.00
  2     09/29/2008     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     06/29/2009     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
                            Moderately                 Moderately
  4     12/31/2009                                                                         0.95
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                 Moderately
  5     06/23/2010                                                                         1.17
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
  6     05/24/2011        Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                        1.48
                            Moderately
  7     11/28/2011                                Moderately Satisfactory                  1.88
                          Unsatisfactory
  8     08/20/2012        Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      2.72
  9     04/14/2013        Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      4.12



                                                                                                  ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The project was subject to
                                                     partial fund cancellation (XDR
                                                     6.1 million). With the exception
                                                     of the fund cancellation, the
                                                     Project’s Objective and Results
                                                     remained unchanged. The
                                                     proposed change required only
 12/04/2012               U      U            3.64
                                                     minor adjustments with no
                                                     significant impacts on expected
                                                     project unsatisfactory
                                                     performance, enabling the
                                                     Client to reallocate the
                                                     cancelled fund to other
                                                     performing project.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                                                    x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Social, political and macroeconomic context
1. Cameroon has played a leading role in the Central Africa region due to its
   location, the size of its population, its stability and wealth. Cameroon is a
   bilingual country with two official languages (French and English). The country is
   a key member of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa
   (Communauté Economique et Monétaire d’Afrique Centrale, CEMAC) and
   accounts for about half of the regional community’s population and wealth. Over
   the last 40 years, Cameroon has enjoyed relative stability in a region prone to
   turbulence.

2. However, at the time of appraisal, economic growth, which relied heavily on
   the oil sector, was faltering. The revival of the economy following major reforms
   in the mid-nineties – including the devaluation of the local currency in 1994 – was
   short-lived. At appraisal, real GDP had decelerated with an average annual rate of
   less than 3.0 percent in 2004-2007, down from 4.3 percent in 2000-2003.

3. By comparison with regional trends, inequality and poverty levels were still
   significant and showed few signs of improvement. In 2008, the total population
   was estimated at 18.5 million people with more than 40 percent living below the
   poverty line. Ranked 150 out of the 178 countries tracked in the Human
   Development Index (HDI) in 2008, Cameroon’s HDI score had deteriorated over
   the preceding two decades. The country was not on track for meeting most of the
   Millennium Development Goals at the time of appraisal. Cameroon’s attainment
   of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) completion point in April 2006
   had yet to translate into significant development results. The country’s poor
   development outcomes were attributed at the time of appraisal to the persistence
   of governance challenges in public sector management.

Governance Efforts
4. Governance constituted a major impediment to economic growth and service
   delivery in Cameroon. While Cameroon's Country Policy and Institutional
   Assessment (CPIA) rating of 3.3 in 2006 was close to the Sub-Saharan Africa
   average of 3.2, the country received a low rating of 2.5 for transparency,
   accountability, and corruption in the public sector, as well as for property rights
   and rule-based government. These ratings were consistent with the country’s low
   ranking in the Worldwide Governance Indicators, in which Cameroon had
   featured below the 25th percentile for the preceding decade.


5. In recognition of this, the Government of Cameroon (GoC) had embarked
   upon a series of governance reforms at the time of appraisal. By 2008,
   Cameroon had undertaken policy and institutional reforms in the following areas:
   (i) budget reporting and transparency; (ii) Extractive Industries Transparency
   Initiative (EITI); (iii) public procurement (adoption of a new law, establishment of
   a regulatory agency and application of sanctions for violations of procurement
   rules); (iv) establishment of an external audit body, the Chamber of Accounts

                                                                                     1
   (Chambre des Comptes); and (v) the adoption of a revised National Governance
   Program (Program National de Gouvernance, PNG) in November 2005, which
   led to the enactment of several laws on asset disclosure and the creation of an anti-
   corruption commission and a Constitutional Council.

Public Sector Management Issues

6. Notwithstanding the Government’s reform efforts, many challenges
   remained, particularly with respect to improving the efficiency of Public
   Financial Management (PFM) and enhancing transparency. The 2008 Public
   Expenditure and Financial Accountability Report (PEFA) highlighted areas for
   improvement in PFM performance in Cameroon:
      Budget credibility was questionable because of significant gaps between actual
       out-turns and originally budgeted expenditures (20 percent less in 2004 and
       2005). Also, the stock of arrears was not reduced over 2005-2007, reflecting
       difficulties in controlling the budget.
      Comprehensiveness and transparency were limited since half of the budget
       operations (mostly donor-funded projects) were not properly covered,
       transfers to decentralized entities were not reported, and the budget reports
       that were made publicly available were either incomplete or unreliable.
      Policy-based budgeting was weak notwithstanding the application of formal
       budget preparation processes based on a Medium Term Expenditure
       Framework (MTEF) and a budget calendar. The participation of line ministries
       in the budget process was limited.
      While budget execution was more or less predictable, arrangements for
       controls of budget execution and stewardship in the use of funds were not
       fully effective. Controls over payroll, which represented more than 40 percent
       of the total domestically-financed spending, were weakened by the actual
       situation of the HR and payroll management systems. The complex and
       fragmented nature of the expenditure chain translated into belated spending
       procedures, excessive use of ad hoc regulations, and exceptional procedures –
       such as cash budgeting and advance payments – that tended to distort the
       processes. The procurement controls system did not prevent improper use of
       sole sourced services and contract splitting.
      Accounting, recording, and reporting were among the weakest part of the
       country’s PFM system due to obsolescence and only partial integration of the
       existing Financial Management Information System (FMIS). While the
       Treasury Balance and Budget Settlement laws (Loi de Règlement) – which
       represent the budget and state financial reports – were regularly produced,
       their quality and reliability were below international standards.
      External scrutiny and audit were formally organized around the Chamber of
       Accounts and the National Assembly Finance and Budget Committee
       (NAFBC) but their independence and efficacy were questionable, since they
       lacked capacity and were still not fully operational.

7. In the lead up to appraisal, international financial and technical partners had
   started to closely coordinate to provide complementary support to the GoC

                                                                                      2
   on PFM reform. Given the breadth and scope of the public sector development
   program required to improve PFM, neither the GoC nor individual donors could
   support the program alone. Accordingly, and in line with the Paris Declaration,
   development partners in Cameroon reached consensus over a joint-working
   agenda to (i) facilitate a broad review of PFM institutions, policy and
   performance; (ii) develop a shared action plan to foster fiscal discipline; (iii)
   consolidate the strategic allocation of resources; and (iv) to increase operational
   efficiency and improve service delivery.

Rationale for Bank involvement

8. The rationale for Bank involvement was underpinned by the three strategic
   pillars of the 2006 Interim Strategy Note (ISN). In line with the ISN; the Bank
   intended to focus its assistance on: (i) addressing governance and corruption
   issues; (ii) managing for results; and (iii) strengthening partnerships, alignment,
   and harmonization. The proposed operation aimed at assisting the GoC in laying
   solid foundations for a transition towards increased budgetary assistance,
   including from the Bank, through Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSCs).

9. Within the context of multi-donor support and selectivity, the following three
   criteria were used to guide the choice of project components: (i) activities that
   consolidate and deepen achievements in public expenditure management and
   financial accountability accomplished during the preceding years (new budget
   legal framework, procurement reforms); (ii) cross-cutting issues of PFMRAP
   (FMIS, Payroll, and Oversight and Controls) in which IDA has a competitive
   advantage; and (iii) coordination and M&E activities, in which building capacity
   in reform management and leadership is critical for the country. The results of the
   January 2008 PEFA report and the close coordination of development partner
   interventions further assisted the selection of project components.

10. The IDA project formed part of Cameroon’s broader PFM reform agenda.
    Long-term reform of Cameroon’s public finances was carried out by the PFM
    Dialogue Steering Committee (PFMDSC) and its Technical Secretariat
    (PFMDTS), which development partners supported through a Multi-Donors
    Committee (Comité Multi-Bailleur – CMB). PFMDTS was responsible for
    overseeing the development and implementation of a PFM Reform Action Plan
    (PFMRAP). The PFMRAP had not been finalized at the time of project appraisal,
    due to delays in the diagnostic work. However, the elaboration of the PFMRAP
    and implementation strategy at the end of 2008 helped the GoC to clarify its
    strategy on PFM reforms and spell out implementation arrangements, especially in
    the area of donor coordination.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

11. The project development objective (PDO) was to contribute (i) to enhancing
    transparency and efficiency in public financial management, and (ii) to
    strengthening accountability in the use of public resource. The project aimed
    to support Cameroon in accelerating the pace of reform toward more orderly and
    open management of public finances and thus more efficient service delivery.


                                                                                    3
   Eleven (11) indicators were chosen to monitor the project’s impact and outcomes.
   The design of the indicators relied heavily on PEFA indicators.

12. The progress toward the project’s objective of enhancing transparency and
    efficiency in PFM was to be measured by one key PEFA indicator (Indicator
    PI-23). It was considered that this indicator, which addresses the availability of
    information on resources received by service delivery units, would help to
    measure the impact of the project activities on the GoC’s ability to effectively
    implement budget allocations in two critical priority sectors, health and education.
    The National Statistics Institute (Institut National des Statistiques, INS) was
    expected to annually survey budgeted resources received by schools and health
    centers, with funding from the project. Cameroon received a score of D in the
    2008 PEFA Report for Indicator PI-23) and this should have increased to a score
    of B in 2012 through the support of the project.

13. The project’s objective of strengthening accountability in the use of public
    resources was also to be evaluated by reference to a PEFA indicator
    (Indicator PI-10). This indicator, which measures public access to key fiscal
    information, was intended to be used to capture how the project, through its
    support to the publication of fiscal data and reports of the National Assembly and
    the Ministry of Finance (MINFI), influenced the extent to which the general
    public and interest groups gained access to relevant and quality information on
    fiscal plans, positions, and performance. The country’s score for this indicator
    was expected to progress from B in 2008 to A by the end of the project in 2012.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification
Not Applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

14. The project’s primary target beneficiary institutions were government
    agencies involved in financial and human resources management. These
    agencies included the MINFI, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Programming
    and Regional Development (MINEPAT), the Ministry of Public Function and
    Administrative Reform (MINFOPRA), the Procurement Regulatory Agency
    (Agence de Régulation des Marchés Publics, ARMP), and the INS. In line
    ministries, the project targeted the Budget Directorate, (Direction Générale du
    Budget, DGB), the Treasury Directorate (Direction Générale du Trésor, DGT),
    the Capital Expenditures Directorate (Direction de l'Investissement), the Financial
    Resources Management Directorate (Direction des Affaires Financières, DRFi)
    and the Planning Directorates (Direction de la Planification). The Finance and
    Budget Committee in the National Assembly and the Douala and Yaoundé
    Municipalities were also targeted beneficiary institutions.

1.5 Original Components

15. The PDO was to be achieved through the implementation of four project
    components which represented an estimated IDA financing of US$l5.0 million


                                                                                      4
   (including an advance Project Preparation Facility [PPF] of US$0.7 million
   and a contingency fund of $0.9 million). The four components were as follows:
    Component 1: Improving Budget Management including Procurement
       (US$4.1M);
      Component 2: Integration and Development of the FMIS including the HRM
       and Payroll Management Systems (US$5.9M);
      Component 3: Strengthening External Oversight and M&E (US$1.9M)
      Component 4: Support to the Project Focal Point for PFM Reform
       Coordination (US$1.5M)

Component l-Improving Budget Management including Procurement (US$4.1M)

16. Component Objectives: In line with the recommendations of the 2006 PEMFAR,
    and January 2008 PEFA reports, the objective of this component was to support
    the implementation and further advancement of ongoing budget management
    reforms following the adoption of the new Organic Law in December 2007, in a
    bid to improve and accelerate budget execution and enhance budget controls.

17. Component Activities: Under this component, project activities primarily
    focused on supporting the revision of processes, methods and regulations for
    budget programming, budget execution including procurement, budget monitoring
    and controls, and Treasury accounting in the context of the new budget Organic
    Law. The activities were principally designed to address deficiencies in the
    management of capital budget and the execution rates of capital budget and
    investment projects. The activities envisaged under this component included:
      Assisting the GoC to implement the reforms introduced by the new Organic
       Law and by the Procurement Code (adopted in 2004);
      Streamlining the expenditure chain, as well as the public contract execution
       chain;
      Strengthening line ministries’ capacity for project identification, costing and
       planning, through the design and implementation of project preparation
       procedures and tools and project cycle training;
      Modernizing the Treasury through rationalization of its current organization,
       revision of the accounting chart and the professional development of State
       accountants and Treasury internal auditors.
      Improving the performance of the procurement system, through the
       implementation of the action plan derived from the 2005 Country Procurement
       Assessment Review (CPAR) with a focus on strengthening the capacity of 50
       ministries and public bodies to plan their procurement operations and assisting
       the seven spending ministries and public bodies with the highest levels of
       public expenditure (Health, Education, Agriculture, Public Works, Finance,
       and the municipalities of Douala and Yaoundé) to improve the efficiency and
       transparency of their procurement processes

Component 2-Integration and development of the FMIS including the HRM and
Payroll Management (US$5.9M)
                                                                                    5
18. This component consisted of 2 sub-components related respectively to the
    development and integration of the FM Information Applications and to the
    upgrading of the HRM and Payroll systems.

Sub-component 2-1: Integration and development of the FMIS (US$l.7M)

19. Sub-Component Objective: At appraisal, MINFI – and more globally the entire
    government – did not have a coherent long-term strategic framework for the
    development, use and maintenance of Information and Communication
    Technology (ICT). There was also a lack of capacity in MINFI for modern and
    professional management of a PFM system in a decentralized environment, where
    the emphasis was on virtual collaboration between various governmental teams
    and structures. The objective of this subcomponent was, therefore, to assist MINFI
    to develop and implement a coherent ICT strategy and plan for incremental
    upgrades and linkage of the key applications across the ministry (Treasury,
    Budget, Payroll, Debt, Tax, Customs, etc.) in order to enhance financial reporting
    and transparency.

20. The sub-component sought to assist the GoC with strategic advice for addressing
    critical ICT issues and solutions that were likely to be implemented within the
    framework of PFM reform, without duplicating existing ICT activities financed by
    the government or donors and without supporting the substantive creation of an
    online administration (in contrast to the more focused E-Governance IT projects
    carried out in Ghana, Rwanda, Sri-Lanka, Morocco and Vietnam). Resources for
    the purchase of equipment, staff training and the development of specific
    applications were expected to be secured from the GoC’s own resources and other
    donors

21. Sub-Component Activities: The project was to provide technical assistance to
    MINFI for ICT project management and implementation; including the (i)
    definition and implementation of a coherent ICT strategy and an action plan for
    FM system applications; (ii) institutional and technical capacity building; (iii)
    design and installation of new systems or enhancements to existing systems; (iv)
    purchase of some hardware and software; (v) upgrade of, and interconnection,
    among critical financial applications (Treasury, Customs, Tax, Debt Management,
    Budget, Payroll, etc.); and (vi) training and change management. In addition, the
    project aimed to support the design and installation of MINFI’s website and
    intranet in order to scale up the level of collaboration and teamwork across the
    Ministry and beyond.

Sub-component 2-2: Modernization of the HRM and Payroll management systems
(US$4.2M)

22. Sub-Component Objective: The objective of this subcomponent was primarily to
    enhance efficiency and transparency and strengthen the controls and checks and
    balances in the management of personnel and payroll through improvements to
    the existing information system. Another important objective of this sub-
    component was to accelerate the pace of ongoing human resource management
    (HRM) reform, in particular the decentralization of the personnel and payroll

                                                                                    6
    management database which constituted a key component of the broader PFM
    reform agenda. The sub-component was closely aligned to the GoC’s commitment
    to installing a new system for HRM and payroll management. While support for
    complex civil servant remuneration reforms did not fall within the scope of the
    project, the sub-component sought to advance the analytical basis upon which
    future operational or development policy lending support for in-depth civil service
    reform could be developed.

23. Sub-Component Activities: Project activities sought to assist the MINFI and
    MINOPRA to properly manage and implement the existing HRM and payroll
    systems work program. Technical assistance was to be provided to: (i) conduct an
    audit of the existing HRM system (the Computerized System of Integrated
    Management of State Personnel or Systeme Informatique de Gestion Intégré des
    Personnels de 1'Etat, SIGIPES) and payroll system (the Computerized System of
    Administrative and Logistics Management for State Personnel or Application
    Nationale pour le Traitement Informatique et Logistique des Personnels de l'Etat,
    ANTILOPE); (ii) accelerate and complete the ongoing efforts to clean up,
    harmonize, and secure personnel and payroll files to match budget allocations for
    staff salaries with the actual number of civil servants; (iii) select, set up, configure,
    stabilize and deploy the most adequate integrated personnel and HRM tool in most
    of the line Ministries; and (iv) develop on-line accessible administrative procedure
    manuals to increase transparency in public administration, and to strengthen
    collaborative work and reduce case file processing times. Training activities were
    to be financed to strengthen the capacity of staff involved in the implementation
    of the HRM reform, as well as the HR personnel of the various ministries, in the
    use and maintenance of new HRM and payroll systems. Some equipment was to
    be provided to complete the network and broaden the availability of the new HRM
    and payroll applications to key ministries. A very limited amount of analytical
    work was also envisaged.


Component 3-Strengthening external oversight and M&E (US$1.9M)

24. Component Objective: The objective of this component was to enhance external
    oversight, communication, and M&E to improve both the effective management
    of public resources and the fight against corruption, whilst strengthening the
    capacity of the legislature and citizens to demand accountability. Given the
    assistance already secured from other donors with respect to oversight and M&E
    in many of the fiduciary services, the IDA project focused on strengthening the
    capacity of the National Assembly and the Capital Budget Monitoring Local
    Committees (Comités Locaux de Suivi des Investissements Publics) in monitoring
    the execution of investment projects. The component also sought to support the
    INS in evaluating the impact of public expenditures.

25. Component Activities: The component consisted of three principal activities:
    First, to strengthen the legislature’s formal institutional role in overseeing the use
    of public resources and examining the Loi de Reglement, the component included
    strategic and technical support to the National Assembly, in particular the Finance
    and Budget Committee (NAFBC) for the development of effective procedures, the


                                                                                           7
   provision of training and office equipment and the creation of a public information
   web-site.

26. Second, to increase demand for transparency and accountability, support was
    envisaged for the newly created provincial-level Capital Budget Monitoring Local
    Committees, which were comprised of local government authorities, elected
    officers and CSOs. The activities under this component focused on supporting the
    further development of these Committees, strengthening their capacity to monitor
    the execution of investment projects in local districts, and assisting the
    Committees in publishing their reports.

27. Finally, the component sought to address the deficit of publicly available budget
    and financial information by supporting the development and implementation of
    an M&E framework involving systematic, timely production and publication of
    user-friendly communications including key information, analysis, progress
    reporting and performance measures related to the use of public resources. The
    framework was intended to strengthen public expenditure tracking. Component
    activities included: (i) assistance to the INS to develop its methodology for public
    expenditure tracking surveys, and to deliver training on the methodologies to
    practitioners in the public sector and civil society; and (ii) support for
    dissemination of information via the government websites with reference to key
    international standards.

Component 4 – Support to the Project Focal Point for PFM reforms
coordination (US$l.5M)

28. Component Objective: The institutional arrangements for project preparation and
    implementation were embedded in existing country systems in order to
    consolidate and sustain the GoC's leadership in, ownership of, and commitment to
    the reforms envisaged. The main objective of this component was to support
    capacity building activities for MINFI and the institutional structures leading the
    PFM reform agenda to enable them to properly carry out their coordination,
    monitoring, and leadership roles in advancing PFM reforms in line with Paris
    Declaration objectives.

29. Component Activities: In coordination with other partners involved in the PFM
    reform program, this component made provision for technical assistance,
    equipment and training for the PFM Technical Secretariat to manage both the
    project and the planned PFMRAP. In particular, the activities envisaged under this
    component were geared towards strengthening the capacity of the Secretariat to:
    (i) establish adequate and functional organizational and implementation
    arrangements for PFM reforms, including the coordination of donor contributions;
    (ii) execute its fiduciary responsibilities under the project; and (iii) coordinate and
    monitor project activities.

1.6 Revised Components: Not Applicable

1.7 Other significant changes



                                                                                         8
30. Project effectiveness was twice postponed due to delays in satisfying the
    project’s effectiveness conditions. The deadline to satisfy the conditions of
    effectiveness was originally January 28, 2009. This was extended to April 22,
    2009, with effectiveness finally declared on June 5, 2009, 13 months after Board
    approval of the project.

31. The project was subject to partial fund cancellation (XDR 6.1 million) on
    December 4, 2012, as requested by the Government of Cameroon. Following a
    bilateral discussion on country portfolio performance to optimize Cameroon’s
    International Development Association (IDA) allocation, the Recipient proposed
    to the World Bank to close the project before the original closing date (letter from
    the MINFI, dated February 22, 2012). During the Bank mission of March 12-20,
    2012, the Government and the Bank team explored the possibility of advancing
    the project closing date from December 31, 2012 to June 30, 2012 or keeping the
    original closing date and stopping activities after June 30, 2012 while cancelling
    part of the credit funds. It was agreed that the latter option was the most compliant
    from a legal point of view. The partial cancellation of funds (US$ 9.4 million) and
    the reallocation of the funds to other IDA-funded performing projects was
    effected on December 4, 2012.

32. The fund cancellation required limited adjustments to the project which
    mostly consisted of the suspension of project activities after June 30, 2012.
    The fund cancellation did not require any changes to the PDO, safeguard category,
    project components, financial management and procurement arrangements or
    institutional arrangements. The suspension of project activities implied the
    following:
     no new contracts except the final audit were signed after June 30, 2012, and all
        on-going procurement processes were cancelled;
     signed contracts for which services were delivered by June 30, 2012 were
        executed and paid as initially planned;
     signed contracts for which execution was planned after June 30, 2012 were
        subject to cancellation;
     Contract cancellation costs were paid according to the applicable contract
        clauses.

33. The cancellation of funds and related suspension of project activities had
    little impact on the performance of project implementation and it enabled
    XDR 6.1 million in IDA funds to be reallocated to optimize the Borrower’s
    IDA portfolio. Only few activities would have been delivered between June 30,
    2012 and December 31, 2012, according to the procurement plan, and the
    implementation of these activities would not have changed the project’s
    “Unsatisfactory? ISR rating. The financial adjustments to the components and
    expenditure categories related to the cancellation are presented in Annex 10 below.
    The cancellation amount included a margin for exchange rate risk and liability risk
    related to the cancellation of contracts.




                                                                                       9
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

34. The Project was approved by the World Bank’s Board of Directors on June
    24, 2008. The Financial Agreement between IDA and the GoC was signed on
    October 30, 2008, and the project was declared effective on June 9, 2009. The
    project had an implementation period of four years with an expected closing date
    of December 31, 2012. The Quality Enhancement Review of the project took
    place on February 19, 2008.

35. At the time of design, the PDO was relevant and consistent with the Bank’s
    Strategy and country program. The PDO was designed to contribute to the
    implementation of the three pillars of the 2006 Interim Strategy Note (report
    #37897-CM. Nov. 9, 2006): (i) good governance and anti-corruption, (ii) better
    service delivery, and (iii) enhanced cooperation with donors. The Project
    Appraisal Document acknowledged the lessons learned from the most recent
    County Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR). The PDO continued to be relevant
    in the context of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2010-13, which
    incorporated governance as a cross-cutting theme to improve service delivery and
    promote inclusive growth.

36. The project was aligned with ongoing PFM reform efforts in Cameroon and
    drew heavily upon the findings of the 2007 Cameroon PEFA report. The
    project built on the Organic Budget Law, which was adopted in December 2007,
    and a PFM Reform Action Plan, which was finalized and adopted in 2009. In
    addition, the PEFA report (produced at the end of 2007) provided a rigorous and
    documented analysis which was used extensively in the design of the project. To
    achieve the PDO, the project was divided into four operational components: (i)
    improving Budget Management including Procurement; (ii) integration and
    development of the FMIS (including the HRM and Payroll Management systems);
    (iii) strengthening External Oversight and M&E; (iv) support to the Project Focal
    Point for PFM reforms coordination.

37. The project’s implementation arrangements were designed to strengthen
    coordination with beneficiaries and other donors and promote country
    ownership. The project design provided for the establishment of a PFM Steering
    Committee (PFMSC), and a PFM Technical Secretariat (PFMTS). The PFMSC,
    which was comprised of managerial-level representatives of all of the
    beneficiaries within and outside of the MINFI and which was headed by the
    MINFI, was given oversight and supervision responsibilities of project and
    PFMRAP implementation. Daily management of project activities was delegated
    to the PFMTS, within the MINFI. The beneficiaries were mainly agencies at the
    central level involved in budget preparation and execution and financial control
    and audit. The conferral of primary responsibility for project implementation on
    the MINFI was intended to further strengthen the coordination of PFM reforms in
    the country, particularly given that the MINFI was already playing a leading role
    in driving the PFM reform agenda and coordinating donor support for reform
    efforts. Project coordination was embedded in existing ministerial structures and


                                                                                  10
   the MINFI system in order to strengthen country systems. Only the procurement
   and FM specialists were paid externally.

38. Despite this, the project design was too ambitious with respect to the scope of
    planned activities and the number of beneficiary institutions intended to be
    covered. The project sought to address a range of issues from procurement, to
    public sector reform, to budget planning and execution, to external oversight. This
    ultimately had the effect of fragmenting the project reform agenda and dispersing
    finite project resources. Budget responsibilities are divided between the MINFI
    and the MINEPAT. However, rather than harnessing opportunities to enhance
    cooperation and integration between these two ministries, the project design
    sought to involve an extensive array of beneficiaries within and outside the MINFI.
    In total the project covered 13 beneficiary institutions: 8 line ministries at the
    central level, the INS, ARMP, the National Assembly, and the municipalities of
    Yaoundé and Douala. Given the track record of inter-ministerial coordination and
    collaboration in Cameroon, project implementation was set to be challenging right
    from the outset.

39. The Project also underestimated the time necessary for the implementation of
    public sector reforms in Cameroon. The Project set out to implement a series of
    relatively ambitious reforms within a four year time frame. However, based on the
    track record of reform implementation in Cameroon, reforms tended to require
    longer implementation time frames, particularly with regards to transparency-
    related reforms as shown in Annex 11. The Presidential elections in 2011 during
    project implementation and the slow-down in the pace reform that is common to
    election periods was not factored into the project time frame. Finally, even though
    the project implementation period was technically aligned with the legally
    mandated deadline for the implementation of the new organic law (2007-2013), it
    was perhaps ambitious to assume that the reform process would adhere strictly to
    this deadline.

40. In terms of the Project’s Result Framework and M&E system, project
    indicators were appropriately selected but the targets were too ambitious.
    The indicators were essentially drawn from the latest statistical information
    available at the time of appraisal (the 2007 PEFA report), as well as output-based
    indicators such as legal and regulatory texts signed and applied, or budget and
    financial report produced and published (see Table 1). However, the degree of
    expected progress in PEFA indicators was overly ambitious.
                           Table 1: PEFA-based TACD indicators
            PEFA indicator        Baseline (2007)          Target (2012)
                 PI-23                  D                        B
                P1-10                   B                        A
                PI-25 i                 D                        B
                PI-24 ii                D                        B
                PI-18 i                 D+                       B
                PI-27 i                 C                        B




                                                                                    11
41. Finally, the Project did not take sufficiently into account the complexities of
    the reform process and public sector context in Cameroon. The reform project
    took place in a complex environment. Public administration in Cameroon is
    characterized by weak coordination between institutions and administrative
    structures and a high degree of centralization. According to some international
    indicators, overall performance of the public administration in Cameroon is
    limited. For instance, in the 2011 CPIA, Cameroon’s score for public sector
    management fell within the lowest cluster (2.9), in contrast to the country’s
    economic management score of 3.7 and overall score of 3.2. In retrospect, it
    appears that the context and enabling environment for reform was not sufficiently
    understood at the time the project was designed.

2.2 Implementation

42. Delays in project effectiveness were not followed by responsive restructuring.
    The project was approved by the Board on May 27, 2008 and the Financial
    Agreement on October 30, 2008. While the date of effectiveness was expected for
    December 31, 2008, it actually occurred on June 5, 2009. The delay was
    principally due to the time required for the Client to establish the adequate
    institutional framework, which was a condition of effectiveness (funding for this
    was available through the Project Preparation Facility and a PHRD grant). The
    PFM Steering Committee was established by decree only in February 19, 2009,
    and there were significant ensuing delays in the establishment of the PFM
    Technical Secretariat; the finalization of the Project Operational Manual; the
    recruitment of the procurement and FM specialists; the identification of work
    space within the Ministries for the PFMTS team; and the acquisition of acquiring
    material and equipment. However, the delays in project effectiveness did not
    translate into efforts to postpone the closing date of the Project early into the
    effective implementation phase or to readjust the implementation arrangements to
    take into account the emerging implementation weaknesses.

43. Major and recurrent delays in procurement processes affected project
    implementation. Procurement delays occurred at every step of the process from
    the definition of terms of reference (ToRs), to the issuance of Requests for
    Expressions of Interest (EoI), to the assessment of EoIs and proposals, to the
    signing of contracts. As shown in Annex 5, for the major contracts there was an
    average delay of 19 months between the originally planned date of submission of
    proposals in the Procurement plan and the actual date of contract signature.

44. Procurement delays were probably due in part to the limited familiarity of
    the Project Coordination Unit with Bank procedures. The project was one of
    the first projects – from the Bank or other donors1 – that the Ministry of Finance
    was charged with implementing. As a result, the Coordination Unit team was not
    yet familiar with Bank policies, procurement procedures, and project management
    tools. This affected implementation.



1
 The EC-funded project coordinated by the MINFI started earlier (PAGT 2006-2011), but the project management
arrangements were very different the Project’s embedded project management unit within the Ministry.


                                                                                                         12
45. Staffing the Project with a Procurement Specialist also presented a challenge.
    The recruitment process for the Project’s Procurement Specialist turned out to be
    complicated and experienced delays. In addition, the Project suffered from a
    turnover of the procurement specialist position with 2 procurement specialists
    covering the periods October to December 2008 and partially October 2009-
    September 2010, implying periods without procurement specialists.

46. There were high transactions costs associated with the preparation of
    procurement processes. As a result of the number of beneficiaries, the absence of
    a country-based TTL and the fact that Bank procedures were new to the
    Coordination Unit, procurement decisions tended to be transaction-intensive. In
    several cases, there was a significant amount of back-and-forth exchanges
    between beneficiaries, PFMTS, and the Bank team before the validation of
    procurement documents, including ToRs, calls for EoI and selections. While this
    iterative process ensured ownership and compliance with procurement procedures
    and quality standards acceptable to the Bank, it also required intensive supervision
    from the Bank.

47. Final procurement decisions were highly centralized. At the beginning of
    implementation, signatures for all procurement steps were centralized at the level
    of the Minister of Finance. This issue was raised in February 2009 and a draft
    ministerial decision was proposed to the Government to quicken the process by
    devolving some responsibility to the MINFI General Secretary (PFMSC vice-
    chairman) and to the PFMTS Coordinator. This was only partially realized two
    years later, in February 2011, when the Ministry issued a de facto delegation of
    signature to the General Secretary, although only for the Call for EOI stage. While
    it appears that this partial delegation had a noticeable impact on accelerating the
    procurement processes in 2011, further delegation of decision-making did not
    eventuate.

48. The Project Coordination Committee was significantly absorbed by
    coordination activities with other donors and stakeholders. The PFMTS was
    set up for the project but also to gather and coordinate support for public finance
    reform from other donors. Since the PFM reform program was not set up as a
    multi-donor fund, the PFMTS had to follow and coordinate the support of each
    donor involved in PFM reform, in addition to coordinating PFM reform
    implementation in different areas of the public administration.

49. The working conditions and staffing levels of the Project Coordination Unit
    also presented challenges. The Project was also affected by sub-optimal working
    conditions during early implementation. For instance, the PFMTS team did not
    have proper offices before 2010. In addition, the PFM Reform Department
    (Division de la Réforme ) was not effectively staffed before mid-2011.

50. The institutional positioning of the PFMTS may have affected coordination
    challenges. The PFM Steering Committee was located within the Budget
    Directorate, and the Coordinator of the PFMTS did not have the rank of Director.
    This may have affected the Coordinator’s ability to access and disseminate
    information and convene the support of various parts of the public administration.


                                                                                     13
   Furthermore, the scope of the project went well beyond the mandate of the Budget
   Directorate.


51. Project implementation may also have been affected by the 2011 Presidential
    Elections. The period between February and December 2011 was a crucial period
    for the Project, as it was agreed that the level of implementation of the roadmap
    during this timeframe would ultimately determine whether the Project would be
    subject to restructuring or partial cancellation. This period coincided with the
    period of Presidential Elections in Cameroon which were held on October 9, 2011.
    The electoral context may have distracted decision-makers from reform
    implementation, thereby adversely affecting the progress of the Project during this
    period.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

52. The M&E system was designed to encompass both the project and overall
    PFM reform. The PAD envisaged a two-level M&E system covering (i) the
    overall national PFM reform program, and (ii) the project. Both were to use PEFA
    indicators to monitor reform progress, and an M&E plan was to be set up to track
    achievements of the PFM Reform Action Plan. A consultant was hired to design
    and produce this system for the two levels.

53. However, the two-level M&E system was not effectively implemented during
    life of the Project. The M&E structure proposed by the consultant involved an
    IT-based M&E system, which the Government did not adopt. An alternative IT-
    based M&E system was explored with support from an EU-funded project, but it
    also did not lead to the creation of a systematic and regularly informed M&E
    system.

54. Notwithstanding this, the broader PFM Reform Action Plan was monitored.
    This was achieved through the reports provided by the PFM Technical Secretariat
    to the PFM Steering Committee and the 2012 mid-term review of the PFM
    Reform Action Plan, which was conducted with the support of the Bank, though
    resources other than those of the project.

55. A more effective M&E system could, however, have contributed to enhanced
    reform sequencing. Such a system could have supported better planning of
    reform actions, as well as earlier identification of bottlenecks to facilitate the
    adoption of mitigating measures.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

56. The project did not trigger any safeguard policies.
57. The Project’s financial management system was rated moderately
    satisfactory at the end of the Project. This rating concerned the following
    dimensions of project financial implementation: budgeting, accounting, fluidity of
    funds, financial reporting, and internal controls. The disbursement rate at project


                                                                                    14
   closure was 28 percent against the original loan amount (SDR9.3 million) and 82
   percent against the loan amount after fund cancellation (SDR3.2 million).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

58. The national PFM reform process is now better established, and its
    implementation is pursued through the institutional arrangements set up by
    the Project. Despite delays and the project’s unsatisfactory rating, the project did
    succeed in setting up the institutional arrangements for implementing PFM reform
    in Cameroon. The PFMTS is currently pursuing PFM reform implementation,
    including activities that could not be executed by the project. The institutional
    capacity building of the PFMTS effected during project implementation has been
    sustained, with the PFMTS forming part of the civil service. The International
    Monetary Fund (IMF), AFRITAC, the French Cooperation, the EU, GIZ and the
    AfDB are all providing technical and financial support and closely coordinating
    their support through the PFMTS. A second PEFA report is likely to be
    undertaken in 2014 or 2015, in parallel to the PFMRAP implementation, and will
    inform stakeholders on the results of PFM reform.

59. However, crucial aspects of the PFM reform agenda, which were originally
    envisaged by the Project and which relate to financial management
    information systems and procurement, are still to be implemented. Since
    project closure, government priorities and donor support have focused on taking
    over the integration of the HRM and payroll management systems (as well as the
    MINFI intranet and website). By contrast, while the introduction of the Financial
    Management Information System (FMIS) has been included as a priority of the
    2013 revised PFMRAP, challenges in implementation are likely to require
    significant external support.    Similarly, the creation of the Ministry of
    Procurement (Ministère des Marchés Publics, MINMAP) in 2012 may have
    created uncertainty regarding the respective responsibilities of the ARMP, line
    ministries and MINMAP in terms of procurement.

60. Also, internal and external controls are likely to require follow up support,
    given that certain project activities were not achieved. Project activities
    supporting Inspection Services and the National Assembly could not be
    implemented and may, therefore, need support.

61. Finally, the introduction of new CEMAC PFM guidelines may imply the need
    for adjustments to the national PFM legal framework which would in turn
    necessitate additional support. The new CEMAC PFM guidelines have to be
    integrated into national legislation by December 2013, with a 2021 deadline for
    implementation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives rating: High



                                                                                     15
62. At the time of the ICR, the PDO is still highly relevant to the country. The
    2007 new Organic Law set a deadline to implement program budgeting in time for
    the 2013 Budget Law, which has been complied with. Enhancing transparency
    and efficiency in PFM in Cameroon, as well as strengthening accountability in the
    use of public resources for more efficient service delivery are still central to the
    PFM Reform Action Plan. The 2010-20 PRSP also confirmed the relevance of the
    PDO, and PFM reform remains at the heart of the country’s strategy for poverty
    reduction. The Bank CAS FY10-13, as well as the 2012 CAS Progress Report,
    aligned with GoC priorities and reiterated the importance of PFM and governance
    reform.

Relevance of Design rating: Significant

63. The design of the Project remains pertinent to the reform priorities of the
    GoC. The project activities are both consistent with the PDO and continue to
    target critical aspects of the country’s PFM reform agenda, in line with the legal
    framework and the PFMRAP. The implementation arrangements - which place the
    MINFI at the centre of coordination and include all ministries concerned by the
    reforms – are also consistent with the project’s objectives and remain relevant in a
    context in which a broader national PFM reform program is under
    implementation. However, the PFMTS could have been better positioned within
    the MINFI to gain in visibility and institutional strength vis-à-vis other MINFI
    departments and other ministries.

Relevance of Implementation rating: Low

64. By contrast, the implementation of the Project was not consistent with the
    country's development priorities. While program budgeting was introduced in
    January 2013 – as provided for by the 2007 Organic Law – outstanding reforms
    that were not implemented in a timely fashion have created significant challenges
    in making the program budgeting process fully operational and effective. This is
    reflected in the re-incorporation of the reform activities, outlined in the PFMRAP
    2009 – 2012, in the revised PFMRAP for 2012-2015.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

65. Few of the Project activities were ultimately implemented and therefore the
    impact of the Project on the Project Development Objectives was limited.
    Even though the few activities implemented set a good basis for further
    improvements, project outputs contributed very little to the desired outcomes.

PDO 1 (Comp. l): to support implementation and deepening of the ongoing budget
management reforms, to improve and accelerate budget execution especially for the
capital spending.

66. Expected Outputs: It was expected that this component would provide tools for
    faster and reliable budget execution and a procurement system that ensured
    competition and efficiency in the use of public resources.

Achievement sub-rating: Low

                                                                                     16
67. The activities planned under Component 1 did not reach a sufficient level of
    implementation to have measurable impact on budget management. Most of
    the activities undertaken under this component consisted of diagnostic work. To
    date, the only tangible improvement to which the Project had any substantial
    contribution has been the timely preparation of the 2013 Budget, even though the
    draft Decree on the Budget Calendar has not yet been signed. In turn, no
    significant changes have been observed yet with regards to streamlining the
    expenditures chain and strengthening Treasury inspection services.

68. The impact of the Project on public procurement reform is also likely to be
    limited. It is still unclear to what extent the diagnostic and partial training of 50
    ministries and public bodies in public procurement, as well as the setting up of the
    e-procurement system – activities which were supported by the Project - will have
    on improving budget execution. This is particularly so given the creation of the
    Ministry of Public Procurement (MINMAP) in December 2011. Responsibility-
    sharing between the MINMAP and the ARMP has yet to be clarified and the fact
    that MINMAP was not fully operational in 2012 is likely to have had an impact on
    procurement processes in that year.

PDO 2-1 (Sub-component 2-1) - to assist MINFI develop and implement a coherent
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) project through strategic advice
on ICT project management and project implementation in order to enhance financial
reporting and increase information production, publication, and access, which are
critical to sound and transparent public FM.

69. Expected Outputs: The main result expected by this sub-component was to
    facilitate the production of reliable, comprehensive, and timely budget and
    financial reports as mandated by the financial regulations.

Achievement sub-rating: Modest

70. The only output of this sub-component during the period of project
    implementation was the production and adoption by the MINFI of a
    comprehensive ICT strategy. The implementation of the strategy is one of the
    central pieces of the revised PFM Reform Action Plan for 2013-2015. However,
    given that the strategy has not been implemented, the project has yet to have even
    an indirect impact on enhancing financial reporting or increasing access to
    information.

PDO 2-2 (Sub-component 2-2) - to enhance efficiency, transparency, controls and
checks and balances in the management of personnel and payroll information; and to
contribute to accelerating the implementation of ongoing HRM reform.

71. Expected Outputs: This sub-component was expected to facilitate the production
    of systems, processes, and tools that would enhance payroll controls and audits to
    ensure a better use of core public resources in a context in which salaries
    constituted the largest item of public expenditure (40 percent).

Achievement sub-rating: Low

                                                                                      17
72. Little tangible progress was made in the management of personnel and
    payroll management systems. The diagnostic of the HRM and Payroll
    information management systems was completed and adopted by the Government.
    However, the Project was suspended before the procurement process for the
    merging of the databases had been completed, and implementation of the merger
    would have required a project extension. Nevertheless, the reform is now moving
    forward with the support of the EU. Neither the pilot study on civil servant
    remuneration, nor the technical assistance to revise the HR procedures manual,
    were completed.

PDO 3 (Component 3) - to enhance external oversight, communication, and M&E,
necessary to enable national stakeholders to support effective management and use of
public resources, fight corruption, and enable the legislature and citizens to exercise
scrutiny and increase demand for more accountability.

73. Expected Outputs: This component was intended to contribute to a better
    functioning oversight system, especially at the level of the National Assembly,
    which exercises controls mandated by existing financial regulations. In addition,
    the component was expected to ensure increased availability of budget and
    financial information to the public. Performance under this component was to be
    evaluated on the basis of: (i) the extension of legislative scrutiny to fiscal policies
    and aggregates for the coming year; and (ii) the timeliness of the release of the
    semi-annual budget reports to the media.

Achievement sub-rating: Low

74. External monitoring of the use of public resources was not affected by the
    Project’s completed outputs. While the second Public Expenditure Tracking
    Survey was published, no dissemination and capacity building activities were
    implemented under the Project. The capacity building of the National Assembly
    PFM committee was also not implemented. Accordingly the increased levels of
    financial information published (in the “Cameroon Tribune? newspaper mostly)
    cannot be attributed to the Project but to the general reform dynamic. The
    diagnostic of the Local Committee monitoring of investment budget execution
    was completed and the recommendations formed the basis of a draft decree which
    was submitted for Executive approval in 2012.

PDO 4 (Component 4) - to consolidate and sustain the Government's leadership in,
ownership of, and commitment to the reforms envisaged

75. Expected Outputs: The results expected from this component, which focused on
    good project management and an M&E system, were the satisfactory
    implementation of the Project and its FM in line with fiduciary standards set by
    IDA.

Achievement sub-rating: modest

76. The establishment of the PFMTS contributed to enhancing overall reform
    coordination by the State. The PFMTS was expected to contribute to sustaining

                                                                                        18
   the reform dynamic by liaising with the hierarchy (Minister of Finance), the
   beneficiary institutions, and technical and financial partners. Support provided by
   the Project to the PFMTS team, in the form of equipment and training, is expected
   to continue to contribute to the implementation of the national PFM reform
   agenda.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency rating: low

77. While rates of return are difficult to determine for this type of technical
    assistance project, project efficiency can be considered as low given the
    results achieved. Given the progress made towards the achievement of the PDOs
    and the result indicators during implementation, the overall efficiency of the
    Project can be considered as low.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory

78. Despite the relevance of the PDO, donor coordination and the adoption of a
    new organic budget law, the outcome achieved by the Project is
    unsatisfactory. While the relevance of objectives and of design were respectively
    rated as high and significant, the relevance of implementation was rated low.
    Outputs consisted mostly of diagnostic work, with related action plans expected to
    be implemented by the Government in due course. Given these are not fully
    implemented, the impact of project outputs on the PDO has been limited to date:
    the target for only one out of two of the PDO result indicators has been achieved,
    and none of the nine intermediate indicators were achieved. Reflecting this, the
    sub-ratings for achievement of project objectives by component were rated modest
    to low and the project’s efficiency was also rated low. The low ratings associated
    with project implementation and impact justify the overall unsatisfactory outcome
    rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development: Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

79. Project support to institutional change was provided in the area of Budget
    preparation. The 2013 Budget voted in December 2012 follows the principles of
    Program Budgeting and all ministries applied the new methodology for budget
    preparation to which the Project contributed. Although the 2013 Budget was still
    not fully disclosed at the time of the preparation of the ICR, and as a result could
    not be assessed, the institutional change induced by the new methodology for
    budget preparation appears to be deeply anchored.

80. The effectiveness conditions of the Project contributed to the creation of the
    PFM Steering Committee and Technical Secretariat. This helped to

                                                                                     19
       consolidate the coordination of the PFM Reform Action Plan and its
       implementation. The head of the PFMTS was also the coordinator of the PFM
       Dialogue Platform Technical Secretariat, as well as the head of the Reform
       Division appointed in mid-2011.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative): None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops:
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

81. The risk that development outcomes will not be maintained is low because
    few activities were achieved. The results of the Project are mostly in the area of
    diagnostic work which has not contributed significantly to tangible outcomes.
    Introduction of program budgeting, which was supported by the Project, was
    achieved in 2013. Still, this new practice has not yet translated into measurable
    improvements in transparency and accountability in the use of public resources
    and in service delivery. While accounting, treasury, procurement, control, and
    HR-payroll integration are expected to progress in 2013, FMIS, PSM reform, and
    external oversight may take longer.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

82. The Project was aligned with the priorities of the Government strategy,
    World Bank Country Assistance Strategy, and other donors’ interventions.2
    The focus and scope of the project built on close consultations with the GoC and
    other donors active in PFM. In particular, the project design aligned with the
    deadline set by 2007 New Organic Law planning for Budget Programming for the
    2013 Budget.

83. While the Project was relevant to the needs of the country, it under-estimated
    the contextual aspects of public administration. Despite the sound overall
    capacity of the public administration, the Project experienced significant delays,
    as described in section 2. These delays can principally be attributed to underlying
    political economy factors in the public administration. While the hierarchy of risks,
    including political economy risks, was broadly acknowledged in the PAD, and
    raised during Concept and Quality Enhancement Review meetings, the project
    design did not sufficiently take into account the implications of the political




2
    See section 2.1.

                                                                                     20
    economy upon implementation.3In particular, limited consideration was given to
    reform sequencing and change management aspects.4

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Unsatisfactory

84. Given the delays in meeting the effectiveness conditions and in procurement,
    this Project would have benefited from more intense Bank supervision.
    Intense and regular Bank supervision was justified by a series of factors including:
    the institutional context, the high number of beneficiary institutions, the limited
    experience of the MINFI in managing Bank projects, and the resulting
    implementation delays.5 Such close supervision would have been more effectively
    conducted by a field-based TTL who could have facilitated a strong and regular
    policy dialogue; identified the bottlenecks and addressed issues swiftly; and
    enhanced the absorption of Bank procedures by the project team.

85. While intense supervision was undertaken between project approval and
    effectiveness, Bank supervision during implementation was limited at crucial
    times, thereby affecting the ability to proactively respond to and resolve
    issues. Supervision missions6occurred frequently to support the Client in meeting
    the effectiveness conditions. The Bank procurement team also provided regular
    and close support to the government counterparts, particularly in the lead up to the
    recruitment of the project procurement specialist. However, the frequency of Bank
    supervision missions declined over time. In particular, while the Project was
    experiencing delays in implementation and after the Project was rated Moderately
    Unsatisfactory twice in a row, in 2009 and 2010, no formal supervision missions
    were held between April 2010 and February 2011. By mid-2011, the Government
    and the Bank explored options for project restructuring. However slowness in
    implementing the agreed action plan, coupled with reticence on the Bank side to
    extend the project closing date (which would have been necessary to allow time to
    implement activities under a restructured project), led to a decision not to go
    ahead with a project restructuring. The dialogue on project restructuring was also
    temporarily affected by the change of TTL in early 2012.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

86. Overall Bank performance is Unsatisfactory. As Bank performance for quality
    at entry and quality of supervision were both rated Unsatisfactory, overall Bank
    performance is rated Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory


3
  See also paragraphs 41-44 for more details on the political economy of reform.
4
  On sequencing PFM reform, see Diamond (2013).
5
  See Datasheet, Section 2.1 and 2.2.
6
  See Annex 12: Supervision missions and ratings.

                                                                                     21
87. The PFM reform program has been led by the Ministry of Finance with
    apparently limited support from other government actors. While the new
    organic budget law introducing performance budgeting was adopted in 2007 with
    a requirement for full enforcement within five years, the Ministry of Finance had
    the responsibility to promote this reform and apparently experienced challenges in
    ensuring inter-ministerial coordination. Such reforms are usually difficult to
    implement without sustained support from the Government, and strong
    communication and coordination is thus paramount for success. Apart from the
    adoption of the law, reform implementation did not effectively start before the
    creation of the PFM Steering Committee and the adoption of the PFM Reform
    Action Plan in 2009.

88. The effective implementation of the Project experienced some delays. The
    Project was approved by the Board in June 2008 and became effective one year
    later in June 2009. In 2010, the PFMTS had new offices, and by mid-2011, three
    years after approval, the PFM Reform Department was effectively staffed.

89. This was compounded by the limitations in government-led monitoring and
    evaluation, due to the absence of a comprehensive system. As mentioned
    earlier in the report, no comprehensive M&E tool was put in place. The high
    number of beneficiary institutions and limited capacity for monitoring in a
    complex environment ultimately had an impact upon the swift implementation of
    the Project.

90. Corrective measures were difficult to implement. As described in Section
    Three related to results section, progress towards the achievement of results
    indicators and reform objectives was limited. In turn, given the context of the
    reform, the Government was not in a position to take decisive measures to
    accelerate reforms that were lagging behind. As a result, no early adjustments to
    the plan and calendar were sought, and the opportunity to improve project
    implementation prospects was therefore missed.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

91. Given the challenging reform environment and PFMTS’ lack of experience in
    applying Bank project policies, its performance was moderately
    unsatisfactory. The PFMTS was given the overall responsibility for the
    implementation of the Project, as well as the PFMRAP implementation and the
    coordination of all donor support and beneficiary institutions. The PFMTS had to
    operate in a challenging environment to implement the reform: (i) government
    support for PFM reform implementation was only clearly manifested in December
    2010, (ii) the numerous beneficiary institutions charged with monitoring the day-
    to-day TA implementation they were offered by the project represented a
    coordination challenge, and (iii) the team and the MINFI had no previous
    experience in applying Bank procurement and fiduciary procedures, which could
    not be remedied immediately because the recruitment of the Procurement
    Specialist consultant failed. Ultimately, the PFMTS started to be more efficient
    with regards to the procurement process in 2011.

                                                                                   22
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

92. The overall borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory. As Government
    performance was rated Unsatisfactory and Implementing Agency performance
    was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, overall Borrower performance is rated
    Unsatisfactory in accordance with the ICRR harmonized evaluation criteria
    guidelines.

6. Lessons Learned

93. The implications of effectiveness conditions need to be carefully assessed at
    the project design stage. The timely implementation of the Project was affected
    by the tardy creation of the PFM Steering Committee which was an effectiveness
    condition that relied on a ministerial decision. While conditions of this kind are
    necessary for project implementation and development impact, project teams may
    consider postponing project submission to the Board until the necessary
    conditions are met, or identifying alternative, more pragmatic and readily
    implementable, solutions.

94. The range of operational alternatives needs to be thoroughly discussed at the
    project design stage. There is no evidence that other project alternatives than a
    TA credit were discussed during the preparation of the Project. It would have been
    useful to consider other options, such as conducting analytical works before
    moving to better informed financing instruments in order to identify potential
    pitfalls and to build a consensus on the most appropriate solution.

95. Project implementation would benefit from early and more comprehensive
    training of implementation units, particularly in project management.
    Implementation unit coordinators tend to be recruited from among the
    Administration and are often either retired high-ranking public officials or
    officials of embedded agencies. While these professionals have a deep
    understanding of the administration and the techno-political context, their
    experience of project management and development partner procedures is in some
    cases limited.

96. The project shows that PFM reforms and projects are highly dependent on
    context and operating environment. In this case, while reform was initiated
    (Organic Budget Law adopted, Reform Plan in place, as well as implementation
    structures identified), implementation proved to be challenging because of
    difficulties encountered in staffing and resourcing the reform structures,
    convening different stakeholders, managing procurement processes, and
    effectively implementing the targeted reforms. Therefore, a thorough and in-depth
    understanding of the context and challenges to reform appear to be critical to the
    success of PFM projects. They also need to be linked directly/integrated into the
    government’s own reform agenda and efforts. A strong in-country presence could
    be especially valuable in this context.



                                                                                   23
97. Project implementation by the public administration and using country
    systems requires enhanced support and a frank assessment of the feasibility
    of proposed targets. Although critical for ownership and sustainability, direct
    implementation by governmental units (vs. project funded Project Implementation
    Units) requires a thorough assessment of the contextual challenges and the
    implementation capacity of the unit and an appropriately calibrated set of targets
    results framework and implementation calendar. Direct government
    implementation tends to require more intense and regular supervision; appropriate
    technical assistance, especially during the inception phase; and a procurement
    plan adapted to the capacity of the unit. Interestingly, the EU PFM project in
    Cameroon and a similar Bank-funded project in Chad (PARCAFIP), both
    implemented by a government unit and benefitting from a medium to long term
    project advisor, experienced more successful results.

98. Field-based TTL-ship appears to be a critical factor for complex projects in
    this type of context. As shown in the previous sections of this report, a field-
    based TTL may well have responded more effectively to the implementation
    challenges encountered by the Project and could have maintained regular and in-
    depth dialogue, on project implementation and PFM reform more generally As an
    illustration, the Chad PARCAFIP, which was in a comparable situation in terms of
    implementation in mid-2012, was able to dramatically improve implementation
    performance through the introduction of highly qualified and experienced
    international advisors and the appointment of a field-based TTL.

99. Projects that seek to introduce IFMIS would substantially benefit from
    guiding principles outlined in the recent World Bank publication “FMIS: 25
    years of Bank experience?. The following selection of findings and lessons
    learned could help in preventing the problems experienced by the Project:
     The political commitment and ownership of the borrower matter.
            o An explicit target FMIS completion date should be announced early in
                project implementation and monitored closely at the highest level.
            o Comprehensive FMIS projects take a minimum of six to seven years to
                complete and there is often at least one election cycle during this
                period. Elections may have a significant impact on such PFM reform
                projects due to changes in key management positions and priorities of
                new governments.
            o Frequent changes in World Bank teams should also be avoided to
                ensure the consistency and continuity in advisory support and progress
                monitoring during project implementation.
     Success depends on adequate preparation. The longer the time available to
        design FMIS projects during the preparation stage, the greater likelihood that
        all components will be thoroughly assessed— and, potentially, the shorter the
        implementation period. The development of realistic functional and technical
        requirements, cost/time estimates, and procurement/disbursement plans (as
        well as draft bidding documents) should be completed prior to Board approval.
     FMIS priorities and sequencing should be addressed carefully. There is no
        prescription for FMIS project reform sequencing and prioritization ex-ante,
        but there are some useful guiding principles. FMIS projects in which the
        preconditions for PFM reforms were properly assessed and a time-bound


                                                                                   24
       action plan was developed with sequencing of reform activities tend to
       produce more effective solutions in a shorter time.
      A focus on developing internal client capacity early in the process is
       crucial. Strengthening the capacity of government officials is usually one of
       the key factors influencing the development of successful FMIS solutions in
       line with the reform objectives. However, improving capacity is also a
       complex problem, in part because of the peculiarities of public sector pay and
       incentive structures present within a given country. The excessive use of
       external consultants to perform the tasks of government officials should be
       avoided (especially in low capacity environments), and key PFM
       organizations should have a capacity building plan, starting from the
       preparation phase of FMIS projects, to be able to assume the responsibility of
       running all daily operations through information systems.
      FMIS implementation is complex enough to deserve a dedicated project.
       Projects which focus exclusively on the difficult task of implementing FMIS
       solutions, rather than on a broader set of public sector reforms with a large
       number of unrelated components, often have broader outcomes. FMIS
       implementation is complex enough to deserve a dedicated project, team, and
       counterparts all focused on key PFM reform objectives. Embedding a large
       FMIS component into a broader public sector reform project (or ambitious
       integrated PFM activities) should be avoided.
      The presence of an ICT expert in the World Bank Team is important.
       Having a Bank staff with ICT expertise within the task team may help in the
       design, procurement, and implementation phases of FMIS projects and
       contribute to accumulation of institutional memory for consistent good quality
       advice and better performing projects.
      The number and complexity of procurement packages influence project
       duration. All FMIS ICT solutions can be implemented through one or two
       International Competitive Bidding (ICB) packages if carefully designed.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not available.

(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not applicable.




                                                                                  25
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage of
       Components             Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD
                                                                    Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)
Component 1: Improving
Budget Management                      4.1            1.73             42%
including Procurement
Component 2: Integration
and development of the
                                       5.9            0.61             10%
Finance Management
Integrated System (FMIS)
Component 3: Strengthening
                                       1.9            0.24             13%
external oversight and M&E
Component 4: Support to the
Project Focal point for PFM            1.5            1.03             69%
reforms coordination
Total Baseline Cost
Contingency Fund                       0.9            0.00             0%
Total Project Costs
Front-end fee PPF                      0.7            0.00             0%
Total Financing Required            15.00             3.61             24%


(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                              Type of Co- Estimate    Estimate Percentage
     Source of Funds                                                 of
                               financing   (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                          millions)   millions)
Borrower                                      0.00          0.00          .00
International Development
                                              15.00         3.61          .00
Association (IDA)




                                                                                26
Annex 2: Outputs by Component
                          Outputs                              Beneficiary                        Comments
                  Component 1 - IMPROVING BUDGET MANAGEMENT INCLUDING PROCUREMENT
(A) support the ongoing budget management reforms to improve and accelerate budget execution and enhance budget controls by:
(i) assisting the Recipient in implementing the changes and reforms introduced by the New Organic Law and by the New
Procurement Code; (ii) streamlining the expenditure chain as well as the public contract execution chain; (iii) strengthening line
ministries’ capacity for project identification, costing and planning through the design and implementation of project preparation
procedures and tools and training on project cycle; and (iv) modernizing the Treasury Directorate through the adjustment of its
organization to the legal framework introduced by the New Organic Law, revision of the accounting chart, and capacity building
of the State accountants, and through the rationalization of the organization and capacity building of the Internal Audit Unit of
the Treasury;
(B) improve the performance of the national procurement system through implementation of the CPAR Action Plan and capacity
building activities, including: (i) contribution to the set-up of a public contracts planning system by improving the capacity of the
Ministries and public bodies of the Recipient to plan their procurement operations; and (ii) assistance to the Main Public
Spending Bodies to improve the efficiency and transparency of their procurement units.
Technical assistance for the implementation of the new                        Texts with regards to payment authorization, internal
Organic Law was partially completed. Outputs consisted                        control are still in draft status. The draft decree on the
mostly in drafting legal texts. Some were used for the       MINFI/DGB        budget preparation calendar has been submitted to the
preparation of the 2013 budget: circulars on 2013 budget                      Executive, and has yet to be approved. TA was
preparation and execution monitoring.                                         interrupted because of project closing.
                                                                              Diagnostic was completed and some tools relative to
                                                                              the “chaine PPBS" were elaborated, but not the legal
Diagnostic for establishment of a new Public Investment
                                                             MINEPAT          texts nor the administrative procedures manual.
Management system was partially completed.
                                                                              However, the consultant is continuing the work with
                                                                              funding from the client.




                                                                                                                                           27
                                                                      Action Plan implementation is on-going (diagnostic
                                                                      concluded there was no need to produce new legal
Treasury reorganization action plan has been completed
                                                          MINFI/DGT   texts and instead the new organigram should be
and validated.
                                                                      applied): PFMTS is in discussion with the Ministries
                                                                      to set up the decentralized payment windows.
Assessment and Action Plan for the strengthening of the
Treasury Inspection services were completed and                       Capacity building of the Inspection Services,
validated. However, the actual capacity building of the   MINFI/DGT   provision of equipment and the recruitment of new
Inspection Services, provision of equipment and the                   inspectors were not engaged due to project closing
recruitment of new inspectors were not engaged.
                                                                      The recruitment process for the consultant was
TA in setting up a new Treasury Accounting Framework
                                                          MINFI/DGT   cancelled; however AFRITAC is currently providing
and System was not implemented.
                                                                      technical assistance on this matter.
The diagnostic for the preparation of capacity-building
                                                                      Capacity-building activities were not rolled out
plans for the 50 ministerial procurement units was        ARMP
                                                                      because of project closing.
completed, but capacity-building was not rolled out.
                                                                      Capacity-building activities within the ARMP and the
The new e-procurement system (SIGMAP) at the Central
                                                                      main spending bodies were not rolled out because of
Procurement Agency was conceived and installed and is     ARMP
                                                                      project closing. SIGMAP is not connected with the
being tested at the ARMP level.
                                                                      FM management system yet.
The study on procurement delays and costs was not
                                                               The consultant had issues accessing data from ARMP
completed due to conflicts between the consultant and the ARMP
                                                               during his mission.
beneficiary.
                         Component 2.1 - INTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE FMIS




                                                                                                                             28
(A) assist MINFI to develop and implement a coherent ICT strategy and plan for incremental upgrades and linkage of the key
applications across MINFI in order to enhance financial reporting and transparency, through support to: (i) the definition and
implementation of a coherent ICT strategy and an action plan within MINFI for continuous upgrade of the financial management
system applications, including through the setting-up of appropriate institutional and technical capacity in MINFI, the design and
installation of new systems or enhancement for existing systems; purchasing of hardware and software; upgrade of and
interconnection among critical financial applications; and training and change management; and (ii) the design and installation
of MINFI’s website and intranet in order to scale up the level of collaboration and team work;
                                                                             No other activities were funded by the project. Some
                                                                             activities are going forward: the MINFI website has
                                                                             been developed (not yet public), the elaboration of
                                                                             intranet is on-going; the adaptation of the current IT
IT strategy and plan (“schéma directeur?) was completed
                                                             MINFI           system to the new organic law has been launched.
and validated.
                                                                             However, no progress was made on the
                                                                             interconnection of the different MINFI directorates,
                                                                             nor the interconnection with regional services or the
                                                                             MINEPAT.
                    Component 2.2 - MODERNIZATION OF THE HR AND PAYROLL MANAGEMENT
(B) enhance efficiency, transparency and controls in the management of personnel and payroll within all Ministries of the
Recipient by improving the current information system and accelerating the implementation of the ongoing human resources
management reform, including by: (i) conducting an audit of the existing HR management and payroll systems; (ii) accelerating
and completing the ongoing efforts to rationalize, harmonize, and secure personnel and payroll files ; (iii) selecting, setting up,
and deploying the most adequate integrated personnel and human resources management tool in most of the line Ministries; (iv)
developing HR administrative procedure manuals accessible on line; (v) strengthening the capacity of staff involved in the
implementation of the HR management reform as well as the HR personnel of the various ministries;
(C) support the analysis of civil service remuneration system, through the provision of studies.
                                                                             The Authorities made a decision in March 2011 to
Audit of the HR and Payroll system (SIGIPES-
                                                                             purchase a completely new system to manage the
ANTILOPE) was completed. Technical specifications for MINFI /
                                                                             Government HR and Payroll. Technical specifications
the acquisition of the new IT system were completed;         MINFOPRA
                                                                             have been completed and the RFP was about to be
however the Request for proposal was not launched.
                                                                             issued end of 2011 but process was stalled given


                                                                                                                                      29
                                                                             project closing. The Authorities have now secured
                                                                             funding from the EU for the IT system.
TA to support MINFOPRA in developing of HR
                                                             MINFOPRA
administrative procedures manual never started.
The study of the civil service remuneration stopped at the MINFOPRA
level of drafting the ToR.
                          Component 3 - STRENGTHENING EXTERNAL OVERSIGHT AND M&E
(A) the provision of support to the National Assembly to strengthen legal oversight on use of public resources, in particular to the
Finance and Budget Commission and to the Permanent Secretariat, through studies, Training and equipment;
(B) the promotion of consultative mechanisms between the legislature, civil society organizations, the media and other users of
information by supporting the development of the CLS in monitoring the execution of investment projects in local districts;
(C) support for the development and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation framework involving systematic and timely
production, publication and user-friendly communication to the public of key information, analysis, progress reporting and
performance measures in the use of public resources, by (i) supporting the INS to develop its methodology for public expenditure
tracking surveys, and to deliver training on the methodologies to practitioners in the public sector and civil society; and (ii)
supporting public access to information regarding PFM performances, principally via the MINFI, ARMP and National Assembly
websites.
                                                                             A suitable consultant was identified; however
Support to National Assembly/ Public Finance
                                                             AN/CFP          contracting process was stopped given project
Committee was not implemented
                                                                             cancellation.
                                                                             Recommendations have been taken into account (e.g.
The diagnostic of the local investment budget monitoring
                                                                             setting monitoring committee at local council level)
committee (CLS) was completed and validated by the           MINEPAT
                                                                             and a proposition of a legal text has been submitted to
MINEPAT.
                                                                             the Minister.
The Public Expenditures Tracking Survey report
(PETS2) in Education and Health was completed with                           The report is accessible on the INS website.
TA from the Bank. However, the report was not widely         INS & others    Dissemination and capacity-building were not
disseminated, and capacity building to other stakeholders                    implemented given project closing process.
on PETS methodology was not carried out.



                                                                                                                                       30
No other activities with regards to public access to
                                                          Misc.
information regarding PFM were carried out.
            Component 4 - SUPPORT TO PROJECT FOCAL POINT FOR PFM REFORMS COORDINATION
Provision of support to the PFMSC and the PFMTS for Project management, coordination and monitoring, and the setting-up of
functioning and adequate organizational and implementation arrangements for PFM reforms, all through technical assistance,
Operating Costs, equipment and Training.
Engagement of a procurement specialist to provide TA to                The first Procurement plan produced is dated of May
                                                          PFMTS
the PFMTS suffered from recruitment & retention issues.                2010, while the project was approved on July 2008
A consultant designed an M&E system for the project                    The World Bank provided direct support (i.e. not
and PFM reform that was neither accepted nor              PFMTS        through the Project) to the mid-term evaluation of the
implemented by the Client.                                             PFM Reform Action Plan.
IT systems (incl. FM IT system) & equipment was
                                                          PFMTS
purchased and used by the PFMTS.
The Procurement specialists benefited from 3 trainings in
World Bank Procurement guidelines and procedures in
                                                          PFMTS/PS
Tunis (Tunisia), Douala (Cameroon) and Dakar
(Senegal).
The accountant and the FM specialists benefited from
                                                          PFM/FMS
training on World Bank FM guidelines and procedures.
The Technical Secretariat benefited from training on
                                                         PFMTS/TS
change management.




                                                                                                                                31
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
As an institution building and technical assistance project, quantitative computations of
rates of return are difficult to quantify, and no formal economic and financial analysis
was performed at the time. Economic and fiscal savings could have occurred through the
introduction of a more efficient financial management system, and program budgeting
and human resources management could have ultimately contributed to efficiency.
However, considering that the Project realized few of the originally intended activities
and exited with an “Unsatisfactory? rating, the overall efficiency of the project can be
considered as low.




                                                                                      32
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                 Responsibility/
Names                   Title                         Unit
                                                                 Specialty
Lending
                         Senior Advisor to Executive
Armand E. Atomate                                        EDS13
                         Director
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab Senior Finance Officer             CTRLA
Bernadette DjapaNyanjo Procurement Assistant             AFCC1
Emile Louis Rene Finateu Consultant                      AFTFM
Faustin-AngeKoyasse      Senior Economist                AFTP3
KouamiHounsinouMessan Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC
Pierre Morin             Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC
Chukwuma F. Obidegwu Consultant                          AFTP2
FridolinOndobo           Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
HerimpamonjyMavoarisoa
                         Program Assistant               MNSPR
Ranaivoarivelo
AbdoulayeSeck            Country Manager                 ECCMD
Nicola J. Smithers       Lead Specialist                 WBICR
David Tchuinou           Senior Economist                AFTP3
Gilles Marie Veuillot    Consultant                      AFTEG
Supervision/ICR
Henri Laurent Bateg      Communications Officer          AFRSC
Yang-Hah Chung-Kong      Senior Program Assistant        AFTPR
Bernadette DjapaNyanjo Procurement Assistant             AFCC1
Jeanne d'ArcEdima        Team Assistant                  AFCC1
Emile Louis Rene Finateu Consultant                      AFTFM
YvanFranusic             Consultant                      OPCPR
Laurence HougueBouguen Program Assistant                 AFCC1
Sekou Keita              Consultant                      AFTFM
Faustin-AngeKoyasse      Senior Economist                AFTP3
SamiaMelhem              Senior Operations Officer       TWICT
KouamiHounsinouMessan Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC
Helene
                         Operations Analyst              AFCC1
SimonneNdjebetYaka
Sylvie MunchepNdze       Team Assistant                  AFCC1
Emmanuel Ngollo          Consultant                      AFTP2
Maurice Nsabimana        E T Consultant                  DECDG
FridolinOndobo           Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
AbdoulayeSeck            Country Manager                 ECCMD
Katrina M. Sharkey       Country Program Coordinator AFCCI

                                                                                   33
FatimataSy                Language Program Assistant        AFCAD
Xiao Ye                   Economist                         AFRCE
Robert A. Yungu           Senior Public Sector Specialist   AFTPR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
 FY04                                      20.61                     145.24
 FY05                                      18.35                     104.77
 FY06                                      20.12                     121.51
 FY07                                      32.04                     206.13
 FY08                                      54.22                     328.62
 FY09                                      32.38                     192.3
 FY10                                      20.25                     124.4
 FY11                                      16.32                     117.8
 FY12                                      11.5                       91.7
 FY13                                       6.59                      13.1
Total:                                    232.38                    1445.57
Supervision/ICR
Total:                                                                 0.00




                                                                                  34
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      35
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                                   36
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Borrower’s comments on Draft ICR were not provided.




                                                                  37
Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                                                    38
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents
2AC (2008) Evaluation des Finances Publiques Selon la Méthodologie PEFA, Cameroun
sept./oct.-dec. 2007, [Cameroon PEFA report], Final report, January.
Charlier, F. & N’Cho-Oguie, C. (2009) Sustaining Reforms for inclusive Growth in
Cameroon, a Development Policy Review, Washington DC: World Bank
Dener, C., Watkins, J. A., & Dorotinsky, W. L. (2011) Financial Management
Information Systems: 25 Years of World Bank Experience on What Works and What
Doesn’t, World Bank Study, April 2011.
Diamond, J. (2013) Good Practice Note on Sequencing PFM Reforms, January.
Republic of Cameroon (2009) Document de Stratégie pour la Croissance et l’Emploi
(DSCE), Cadre de référence de l’action gouvernementale pour la période 2010–2020
[Strategy paper for growth and employment (SPGE): Framework of government action
for 2010–2020].Yaoundé: Republic of Cameroon
Republic of Cameroon (2013)Plan de Modernisation des Finances Publiques du
Cameroun, Revue de la Mise en Œuvre du Plan 2009-mi-2012 et Actualisation 2012-
2015, [PFM Reform Action Plan Implementation Assessment for 2009-2012 and
Revision for 2012-2015],January draft report, Yaoundé: Republic of Cameroon
World Bank (2008) Project Appraisal Document of Transparency and Accountability
Capacity Development Project, May 27, Washington DC: World Bank
World Bank (2008-2013) Various ISRs and Aide-Memoires of the Transparency and
Accountability Capacity Development Project (P084160), Washington DC: World Bank.
World Bank (2011) CFA Cameroon Study, draft report, May.
World Bank (2012) Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report FY10-13
World Bank (2013) Proposed Project Restructuring of Transparency and Accountability
Capacity Development Project, Washington, D.C., USA.


People interviewed for this ICR:
Government of Cameroon
Cyril Edou                                MINFI, PFMTS coordinator
Jean-StephaneMbida                        MINFI, DRFi, Procurement specialist
Flore Kinkeu                              MINFI, PFMTS
                                          MINFI, PFMTS, Expert Formation
Ahmed NdjamaAbouem                        MINEPAT, deputy director of Public
                                          Investment Budget Monitoring
AkoTakeum                                 MINFORPA-SPRA




                                                                                39
World Bank
AlexandreArrobbio        TTL
Bernadette DjapaNyanjo   Procurement Assistant
Dan Murphy               Former Country Officer
KouamiMessan             Procurement Specialist
FaustinKoyasse           Senior Economist
Mamadou L. Deme          TTL
KolieOusmane M. Megnan   FM specialist
Cia Sjetnan              Senior Country Officer

Partners
Jean Michel Dumont       French Embassy, MINFI Technical
                         Assistant
Sekou Keita              AfDB, FM specialist; former WB FMS for
                         the TACD project
Frederique Same-Ekobo    EC, FM specialist
Martial Laurent          ADE, head of EC PFM project
Du Prince Tchakote       IMF




                                                            40
     Annex 10: Changes in Financing and Proposed Cancellations by Component
                                                                                                   Proposed
                                                   Disbursement      Proposed
                                    Current                                                       Cancellation
                                                    (occurred +    Cancellation
                                   in million                                                      (incl. risk
Components/Activities                              expected incl. (incl. exchange
                                      USD                                                          margin) in
                                                     Audit) in    risk margin) in
                                     (PAD)                                                           million
                                                   million USD)     million USD
                                                                                                     XDR7
Component 1:
Improving Budget
                                       4.1                 2.4                    1.7                   1.1
Management including
Procurement
Component 2:
Integration and
development of the
                                       5.9                 1.2                    4.7                   3.0
FMIS including the HR
and Payroll
Management
Component 3:
Strengthening External                 1.9                 0.8                    1.1                   0.7
Oversight and M&E
Component 4: Support
to the Project Focal
                                       1.5                 0.9                    0.6                   0.4
Point for PFM Reforms
coordination
Advance PPF                            0.7                 0.1                    0.6                   0.4
Contingency Fund                       0.9                 0.2                    0.7                   0.5
TOTAL                                 15.0                 5.6                    9.4                   6.1




7
 The amounts in XDR and USD are equivalents based on the exchange rates as of October 30, 2012, i.e. the date at
which the discussions between the Bank team and the Government on the amount to be cancelled were finalized: 1
XDR = 1.54 USD.


                                                                                                                   41
           Annex 11: Years between policy commitment and implementation
                         Year of                                                     Number
     Reform                                          Year of Implementation
                      Announcement                                                   of years
Freedom of
                            1990          2000 (without enforcement mechanisms).       10
Media
Audit Chamber               1996          Law passed in 2003, operational in 2006.     10
                                          Law passed in 2004, implementation
Decentralization            1996                                                       13
                                          started in 2009.
Asset
                                          Law passed in 2006. No decree of
Disclosure (art.            1996                                                     Over 15
                                          application so far.
66)
Constitutional                            Law passed in 2004 and revised in 2012.
                            1996                                                     Over 15
Court                                     No decree of application.
Senate                      1996          First election on April 2013                 16
                                          Law passed in 2007, with implementation
New Organic
                            2000          for the first time set for 2013 Finance      12
Law
                                          Law.
Anti-Corruption                           Law drafted since 2008 but not passed
                            2006                                                     Over 6
Law                                       yet.
EITI                        2005          Last deadline for validation is 2013       Over 8
Source: Charlier et al. (2009) updated and completed by author




                                                                                            42
                  Annex 12: Supervision Mission and Ratings
                                                                      PDO /
                                                     Time
                                                                  Implementatio
            Missions dates                Length    between
                                                                    n progress
                                                    mission
                                                                      Rating
     May - Board Approval                                     -
2008 June                                 17 days                     U/U
     September                            12 days     2 months       MS/MS
     February                             14 days     4 months
     March                                08 days   1.5 months
     June - Effectiveness
2009
     June                                 10 days     2 months      MS/MS
     November                             05 days   4.5 months      MU/MU
     December (visit VP AFR)
2010 April                                13 days   4.5 months      MU/MU
     February (incl. SM)                  11 days   9.5 months       U/U
     July (Mid-Term Review, incl.         13 days   5.5 months      MU/MS
     external expert E. Champagne)
2011
     March                                09 days    7 months         U/U
     June 30 – Suspension of activities
     Dec. 30 – Closing of the project                                 U/U




                                                                              43
                     Annex 13:GoC Supervision of PFM Reform - Key Facts
 GoC supervising
                                       Mandate                               Key dates
     bodies
PFM Dialogue         Concertation platform presided by Min. of       Created in Feb. 2007 and
Platform             Finance, comprising GoC (Presidency, PM          decree providing for
                     office, MINFI, MINEPAT, Audit Bench),            trimestrial meeting.
                     donors, CSO, private sector.
                                                                     Only met thrice (in 2007,
                                                                      2008 and 2012)
PFM Reform           High-level decision-making internal             Created in Feb. 2009
Steering Committee   deliberative space presided by Min. of
(internal)           Finance, and comprising relevant public         5 meetings so far (2 in 2009,
                     administration (Presidency, PM office,           2010 and 2 in 2011)
                     CONSUPE, ministerial departments esp.           6 meetings of the sub-
                     from MINFI and MINEPAT and                       committee between Feb.
                     MINFOPRA, MP)                                    2011 and Feb. 2012.
Technical            Head of the TS is also coordinator of the       Created in April 2009, with
Secretariat of the   platform on Public Finance, and head of          Coordinator
PFM Reform           reform division (under Budget Directorate)
Steering committee                                                   Office for the team made
                                                                      available only in 2010.
Division of Reform   Division of Reform is accountable to the        Staffed in June 2011
                     Budget General Director




                                                                                                    44
                      Annex 14: Time between original planned date for receiving proposal’s submission and date of contract signature

                                    2008       2009           2010        2011                          TIME between original
                                    proc.      proc.          proc.       proc.                        planned date of proposals'     AMOUNT in US$ million
           Activity*                plan       plan           plan        plan          contract
                                                                                                       submission and contract's       (real or proc. plan est.)
                                      planned date for proposals' submission                                   signature

COMP. 1
TA in implementing New
                                      /       Aug-09         Sep-10      Apr-11          28-Sep-11             26 months                          0.65
Organic Law

TA in Project cycle
                                      /       Oct-09        Nov-10       Apr-11          21-Oct-11             23 months                          0.52
management
Diagnostic Treasury reorg.            /       Nov-09         Apr-10          /            4-Oct-10             12 months                          0.16
TA in Procurement                     /       Nov-09         Sep-10          /           26-Sep-11             23 months                          0.45
e-procurement                         /       Nov-09         Jul-10      Mar-11          13-Oct-11             24 months                          0.17
COMP. 2
MoF IT strategy                     Feb-09    Nov-09         Jan-10          /          24-May-11              19 months                          0.52

Audit HR-Payroll IT system            /       Nov-09            /            /             Nov-09              13 months                          0.1

COMP. 3
Study PIB monitoring
                                      /       Nov-09         Sep-10          /           13-Oct-10             12 months                          0.19
committee
                                                                                             Average             19 months
                                                       *not all contracts are in this table, only the major contracts, representing 76% of the total amount disbursed.




                                                                                                                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33382R
                                                                                              12º E                                                14º E                                                     16º E
                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
       C A MER O O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                      1963 Level                                                                          the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                       Chad               World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                       1973 Level                                                                         colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                          any other information shown
                 CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                        2001 Level                                                                       on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                          the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the
                 PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                            Fotokol                  Massaguet
                                                                                                                                                                                                          legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          or any endorsement or
                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                 Maltam                  acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                   To                                                     boundaries.
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                         Maiduguri                                                                                  12º N
                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mandélia
                 MAIN ROADS                                          0        40         80        120      160 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                  To
                 RAILROADS                                                                                                                     Maiduguri
                                                                     0              40                80             120 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                      ts.
                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                          Mora           M              Lake
                                                                                                                                                          a                      Maga




                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                  da
                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                      Maroua




                                                                                                                                            an
                                                                                                                                                                                              Guelengdeng
                                                                                                                                                        E X T R E M E Yagoua
                                                                          NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                          NORD
                                                                                                                                                                        Kaélé
10º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10º N
                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                               Figuil                                                       Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                   Pala
                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                              Leré
                             CAMEROON                                                                                                   Garoua
                                                                                                                                                   Lake
                                                                                                                            Touroua
                                                                                                                                                   Lagdo                                                  CHA D
                                                                                                                                           NORD
                                                                                                                           Fa                      ué
                                                                                                                             ro                  no
                                                                                                                                               Bé
8º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8º N
                                                                                                                                                                         bang.
                                                                                                                                            Mbé                   Mts M
                                                                                                                                                                      na    Vi            Ngai


                                                                                                                                            Ngaoundéré
                                                                                                         ts.
                                                                                                      M




                                                                                                              ADAMAOUA
                                                                                                   ua




                                                                                     Banyo
                                                                                              ao




                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                               m                                                ére
                                                                                                                                             Dj
                                          Wum                                             da                                          Ngaoundal
                                                                                      A                     Tibati
           To                                NORD-                                                                         Lake

6º N
          Ikom
                                             OUEST             Kumbo                                                       Mbakaou
                                                                                                                                                                                  To                                                        6º N
                                                     Bamenda                       Bankim                         Sangbé                                                         Bouar
                     Mamfe    Mb                                                                                                                   Garoua Boulai
                                 u
                                                                    Foumban
                                                        Bafoussam
                                     Dschang
                                                     OUEST                                                 Yoko                            Lo m                                        CENT RA L A F R I CAN
                   SUD-                              Bafang                        CENTRE                                                                                                  REPUBL I C
                   OUEST                       Nkongsamba
                                                                         Mb
                                                                           am
                                                                                                                                      Bélabo
                                                                                                                                                          Kadei




                          Kumba                                                                                                   Bertoua
                                               i Yabassi
                                                 Yabassi                                                     Nanga
                                          ur                                                                 Eboko                                                    Batouri
         Mt. Cameroon
                                      o




                                        LITTORAL
                                     W




             (4,095 m)
                    Buea                                                 Ntui
                              Tiko
4º N              Limbe           Douala                                                        Akonolinga                        Abong Mbang                                    Yola                                                       4º N
                                                     Edea        YAOUNDÉ

        EQUATORIAL
                                                                Eséka
                                                                                     Nyong                                                               EST
                                                                                                                                                                            Bou
          GUINEA                                                                    Mbalmayo                                                                                    mb
                                                                                                                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                                                   Echambot
                                     Kribi                    Ebolowa                              Sangmélima
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lokomo
                                                                                   SUD
                                                                              Ambam                                                                           Dja
                                                                                          Kom

                                                                                                                                                                                              Mouloundou
2º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2º N
                                                                               To
                                                                              Oyem
       G ul f o f                              EQUATORIAL                                      GA BO N
       G ui n e a                                GUINEA                                                                                                                                CO NGO
                                             10º E                                            12º E                                                14º E                                                     16º E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     APRIL 2013
