Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22322
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25 160)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 64.5 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR A
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PREVENTION AND CARE PROJECT
June 13, 2001
Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Z$1 = US$ 0.018
US$ I = Z$55
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Inrnune Deficiency Syndrome
CPO           Central Payments Office
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DFID          Department for Intemational Development (U.K)
DHS           Demographic and Health Survey
FHP2          Second Family Health Project
GMS           Government Medical Stores
GOZ           Government of Zimbabwe
HIV           Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HNP           Health Nutrition Population
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
MCAZ          Medicines Control Authority of Zimbabwe
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOHCW         Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
NACP          National AIDS Control (later: Coordination) Program
NBTS          National Blood Transfusion Services
ODA           Overseas development Agency (later: DFID)
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PHC           Primary Health Care
PHL           Public Health Laboratory
PMU           Project Managemnent Unit
PRC           Presidential Review Commission
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
STI           Sexually Transmitted Infection(s)
STD           Sexually Transmitted Disease(s)
VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO           World Health Organization
ZIMPREST    Zimbabwe Programme for Economic and Social Transformation
ZNFPC         Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader:   Philip Gowers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PREVENTION AND CARE PROJECT (STI)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Corrmments                                                                  18
10. Additional Information                                                            20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                     33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 34
Map IBRD 23446
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003333                                        Project Name: STI
Team Leader: Philip R. Gowers                              TL Unit: AFC04
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 13, 2001
1. Project Data
Name. STI                                             L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25160
Country/Department. ZIMBABWE                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector. HA - HIV/AIDS
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/15/92                                 Effective: 09/14/93            09/14/93
Appraisal:  01/05/93                                   MTR: 05/30/96
Approval:  06/17/93                                 Closing:  12/31/98            12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency. GOV/MOHCW
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                             E. V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:       Dzingai Mutumbuka                          Roger Grawe
Team Leader at ICR:   Philip Gowers                              Joy de Beyer
ICR Primary Author:   Comelis P. Kostermans; Hope C.
Phillips
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The goal of the project was to help the Government of Zimbabwe to reduce the incidence and impact of
sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in a cost-effective manner. The project was expected to provide
critical programmatic and conumodity support to Government's integrated and comprehensive program for
prevention and care of STIs. The project's specific objectives were to: (a) ensure an adequate supply of
condoms for disease prevention; (b) ensure implementation of the National Sexually Transmitted Diseases
(STD) Prevention and Control Program, which provided a policy framework vital to the success of STI
control; (c) enhance Government capacity to identify and treat, in those most at risk, the STDs that
facilitate transmission of Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV); (d) treat selected HIV-related infections,
especially those that pose a general public health threat, such as tuberculosis (TB); (e) facilitate HIV
testing and counseling of persons seeking to know their HIV status; (f) ensure the continued safety of the
blood supply; and (g) protect health care workers and facilitate home-based care for AIDS patients.
The objectives were clear and, at the time of project design, realistic. As a Country Assistance Strategy did
not exist at the time, it is not possible to judge whether the objectives would have been important in the
context of overall Bank assistance. A Country Study had been carried out in 1991-1992: Zimbabwe,
Financing Health Services (Report No. 10262, 1992). The Project followed through on the Report's
conclusions that much needed to be done to expand health services, especially to neglected rural areas, and
make services accessible to all segments of the population. By focusing on basic services and prevention
the Project also aimed at improving allocative efficiency, and increasing technical efficiency (especially in
hospitals), as the Report had recommended. The Project did not address another recommendation of the
Report that an increasingly important role had to be played by the private sector. This decision seems
appropriate in the context of this Project.
IDA funding focused on improving the supply of pharmaceuticals and medical goods, and not on policy or
programmatic support. This was the result of ODA (now DFID) financing of objective (b) under a parallel
financing arrangement (see 3.4. Revised components).
While the Project supported a range of improvements, involved two arms of the same institution, had four
components and was national in nature, the competence of the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
(MOHCW) in implementing previous Bank projects, and the approach meant that the objectives were not
complex. The learning curve required for intemational competitive bidding (ICB) by the Government
Medical Stores (GMS), one of the implementing arms of the Project, was steeper than foreseen. The
Project was not risky in that it was providing additional funding for activities akeady being undertaken, and
responded to a need identified by MOHCW.
The Project had too much of a health focus to be efficacious by itself in fighting the AIDS epidemic. Such
a health focus, however, was the standard at the time the Project was designed. The Project did well take
into account WHO guidelines of that time for fighting the epidemic.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
1. Condoms (USD 10.7M). To meet the total cost of projected public sector demand for condoms for the
life of the project.
-2 -



2. STD program support and STD diagnosis and treatment (USD 21.8M). Program support to enhance
policy fonnulation and implementation with increased emphasis on prevention, research, training,
strengthening data collection, improved detection and treatment of STDs, improved monitoring and
evaluation. The procurement of basic diagnostic tests and supplies used in laboratory confirmation of
STDs and the procurement of STD drugs was also supported.
3. Treatment of AIDS-opportunistic infections (USD 31.2M). The component focused on the
procurement of laboratory equipment, supplies and drugs to ensure prompt and adequate treatment of
Tuberculosis as well as acquiring drugs to treat other HIV-related diseases and complaints.
4. HIV-diagnosis and screening (USD 2.7M). The component would finance the procurement of
HIV-screening tests and equipment used in voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) programs and for
screening blood to ensure the safety of the blood supply.
5. Health system support (USD 8.3M). The component financed the procurement of protective supplies,
such as latex gloves, disposable syringes and needles, and disinfectants.
Three of the components aimed at making commodities available for prevention of transmission of HIV
with a focus on STD diagnosis and treatment since the presence of an STD facilitates infection with the
AIDS virus. Being the first project of its kind, there was no Bank experience in this sector, but lessons
from WHO, and other agencies, were taken into account. The project was designed as it was--narrow,
simple, drug and supplies-dominated--because the Ministry of Finance (MOF) was only willing, even on
IDA termns, to borrow for drugs, medical supplies, preferring to use grant funds provided by ODA for
policy and program support. The Bank team recognized that an adequate supply of commodities is a
prerequisite (but not a guarantee) for better diagnosis, screening and treatment. The components, as
designed, related well to the Project objectives and the administrative and financial management capacity of
the implementing agencies at that time.
3.4 Revised Components:
At appraisal, ODA expressed an interest in financing the condom and the programmatic aspect of the STD
program components. It was agreed that the appraisal document would include these aspects, with the
expectation that the Government would fund the mostly local costs of the programmatic support; funding
for these would revert to ODA if and when their financing came on stream. A self-standing Sexual Health
Project was signed between ODA and the Government in 1994 to fund both the condom and aspects of the
STD program support except for diagnostic supplies for testing and pharmaceuticals for treatment of
STDs.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The Project was designed in response to an urgent request by
MOHCW to fund an already designed STI program and this contributed to the speed of preparation (only 8
months). The preparation speed also reflects a rare awareness, at that time, of the emergency which AIDS
poses for development. It focused mainly on providing foreign exchange for badly needed items in the
health sector as a result of increasing demand due to AIDS. The Project did not address any structural or
organizational issues in the sector, such as policies, since it was considered, and rightly so in the context of
1993, when AIDS was mainly addressed as a health issue, that (1) the Zimbabwe's response to AIDS was
sufficiently well organized with an existing National AIDS Control Program (NACP) and a Medium Term
Plan in place, (2) it complemented the Second Family Health Project (FHP2) (Ln. 33390-ZIM) which was
addressing many general health sector issues, and (3) other donors and agencies were providing support at
the policy and structural level. In particular, ODA was providing support for STD policy and program
-3 -



development and implementation, while DANIDA was heavily supporting Government Medical Stores in
strengthening the management of supply and distribution of drugs and medical supplies. Since this project
was the very first Bank-financed project on AIDS, the Bank's team was careful by designing something
simple.
The project was fully consistent with MOHCW health sector policies and the Medium Term Plan for
HIV/AIDS developed by the NACP in cooperation with WHO-Global Program for AIDS, and became
effective during the development of the Second Medium Term Plan for HIV/AIDS (1994-1998). The
Project assisted in the delivery of AIDS/STD prevention and care in an integrated fashion through the
primary care system. By focusing on improving the quality of basic care in the public system, especially
the poor would benefit from the project's outputs, since they use the public health service delivery system
most. Tuberculosis, a disease especially affecting the poor, was specifically addressed in this project.
At appraisal there were many positive signs that Zimbabwe's response to AIDS would be sufficiently
effective: (a) a multi-sectoral approach had started; (b) the NACP had been established since 1988; (c) a
National AIDS Council had existed since 1991; (d) there was some evidence of behavioral change; (e)
MOHCW's record in the set-up and implementation of primary health care programs in the 1980s and
early 1990s was (and remains) very impressive; and (f) AIDS was addressed in an integrated manner in the
health sector. However, there were also some worrying signs that, in hindsight, should have made the
appraisal team less optimistic about the possible impact and general environment of the Project. What
stands out the most is that there was little evidence (and perhaps even to the contrary) of broad political
support for a multi-sectoral fight against AIDS, e.g., the National AIDS Council had no legal status and
was hardly functional. Finally, with an annual incidence ofjust under 1 million STDs in a population of
around 10 million, the STD program could hardly be called effective, especially while the danger of an
exploding AIDS epidemic was looming large.
While the STI Project focused on procurement of goods, other donors supported or planned to support
policy formulation and programs such as communication for behavior change. This made the program's
success dependent on the successful implementation of other donor-supported activities. Some concerns
were raised at pre-appraisal review about the Project's focus on commodities, while other inputs in the
sector were left to other donors. However, that concern was allayed by the indication that complementary
support seemed reliable. In retrospect, the Project should have made provision for policy and program
components and the team should have insisted on their inclusion in discussions with MOF.
The five components addressed important areas for any STI program, but were perhaps overly detailed in
describing the drugs and supplies and often the quantities to be procured. Since it was the first project of
its kind, perhaps the team felt it needed to do detailed projections for costing sake and procurement
planning. This could have led to rigidity during implementation, but the flexible approach of the Bank
team during implementation, with respect to the types and quantities of items procured, addressed this issue
well.
The project's goal had an indirect poverty focus: by improving the availability of basic drugs and supplies
and thus the quality of care in the public sector, the poor, who use the public facilities most, would have
access to better care. The large and devastating impact the AIDS epidemic would have on the population
and general development of Zimbabwe was recognized early on. By treating STDs and thus contributing to
prevention of HIV transmission and by providing treatment and support to people already infected, the
project intended to reduce the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on poverty.
Overall coordination for implementation of the project was to be carried out by the NACP. The existing
- 4 -



PMU for FHP2 was to handle the financial management and procurement of some equipment. Drugs and
medical supplies were to be procured through Government Medical Stores (GMS), which was responsible
for procurement of such items for the public sector. NACP was new to the task; while both GMS and the
PMU were performing quite well at appraisal, the subsequent drop in performance could not have been
anticipated during preparation. The implementation arrangements followed existing arrangements in
MOHCW, which had sufficient institutional capacity at appraisal, although it had not previously managed
a Bank supported program with different implementing agencies.
The Project included a clear and short list of indicators designed to measure project success at both the
project and program level. Although the set of indicators did not follow precisely each sub-component of
the Project, the indicators were well chosen as they followed internationally agreed indicators and did not
require extra effort from program managers beyond what might normally be expected from them.
However, the set of indicators placed too much emphasis on measuring the success of the condom
component, which, in the end, was not even financed by IDA. The project itself included a sub-component
to strengthen overall program monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and a comprehensive M&E strategy was
developed during implementation. (see annex 1)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
At the time the Project closed, there was no Country Assistance Strategy, however an Interim Strategy
2000-1 had been developed that presented four scenarios: non-accrual, crisis, intermediate, and transition.
In any but the non-accrual scenario, HIV/AIDS is one of the priority areas for Bank intervention. In
addition, social protection is another priority area that would be targeted, which also includes the provision
of drugs and medical supplies to the poor. Based on the current in-country situation, the support provided
under the Project is consistent with the current "country strategy". The Project is also consistent with the
sectoral strategy which focuses on availability of basic health services, for which the Project provided the
necessary support. HIV/AIDS has risen to become the top priority in the health sector strategy. In terms of
social goals, the provision of support for the procurement of essential drugs and supplies of the type
provided under this Project is also appropriate. As noted above, the design was simple, and did not target
a particular group for assistance. However, since the public sector is where the majority of the poor seek
medical care, by providing essential drugs in facilities, in particular at health center level, the Project would
have been reaching the poor, and those seeking care for STIs in public health facilities. It is noted that the
requirement for drugs and supplies, over the life of the Project, as a result of the escalating epidemic,
exceeded the original estimated needs.
The condom component which was anticipated to meet the total projected public sector demand for
condoms for both disease prevention and contraceptive purposes was funded by DFID in parallel financing.
The condom availability at central level showed an increasing trend between 1994 and 1998. Since funding
for the National STD Prevention and Control Program by IDA only consisted of drugs, this was an
indicator that was tracked, and this improved substantially from inception, but is now on a downward
trend, as no new large tender has been launched since 1997. With respect to enhancing Government's
capacity to identify and treat, in those most at risk, the STDs that facilitate the transmission of HIV, a
clinical audit of STD cases managed according to nationally agreed protocols was 44% in 1995, and
increased to 63% in 1998. A study carried out in 1999 by the University of Zimbabwe concludes that STD
care is of high quality in all health facilities and provided in an integrated way in the primary health care
system. The Project provided drugs for the treatment of selected HIV-related infections, including TB, and
drug availability in these areas also improved (see Annex 1). While funds were made available to facilitate
counseling and testing those desiring to know their status, the establishment of voluntary counseling and
- 5 -



testing centers (VCTs) was ultimately grant funded by IJSAID, thereby freeing up IDA funds for the
increased supply of drugs and medical supplies. Blood safety continued to be a priority with the National
Blood Transfusion Service, however funding was never provided for this objective as a result of IDA's
objection to sole source procurement for the necessary supplies (see 4.2 Outputs by component 4). The
Project succeeded in the provision of necessary items to protect health care workers; in fact this line item
required almost 100% more than initially anticipated.
As noted above, the increased availability of drugs measured during the life of the project (see Annex 1),
certainly is a direct result of the Project and has contributed to a reduction of the impact of STIs. By
treating STDs and by providing treatment for AIDS-related diseases to people already infected with the
virus, the Project has had a positive impact on the life of Zimbabweans. Beneficiaries interviewed for a
study as part of OED's evaluation of Bank support to the health sector noted generally that health care
access had increased and that the systems for the procurement of drugs from GMS had improved.
An evaluation undertaken in 1999 concludes that the decline in the incidence of STIs in Harare is probably
reflective of the situation throughout the country; however, it is not possible to know if such a decline is
due to project impact. Over the life of the Project the number of STDs registered by MOHCW have
declined by around 7% (from 878,000 to around 814,000 per year). By providing financing for treatment
through basic generic drugs, and through increasing the availability of these items (see later) the project has
contributed to reducing the impact of STIs in a cost effective manner. At the same time it is sad to see that
HIV prevalence continued to rise during the project and Zimbabwe now ranks second in the world, with an
adult HIV-prevalence rate of around 25%. The rate of increase in HIV prevalence has declined over the
last few years, but this is at least partially due to the increase of HIV-related mortality or it may reflect a
normal epidemiological pattem.
The back-to-office report of the mid-term review of the project stated: "Ifjudged solely by its outputs, the
IDA-funded part of the STI project has performed rather well. .Judged in its totality as a project, or as part
of an overall HIV/AIDS program, however, the project has had no discemible impact on HIV prevalence
rates or most other important indicators." The same can still be said at the end of the Project, although the
success in increased dru., availability has now largely evaporated because of the country's inability to
procure drugs and supplies as a result of a shortage of foreign exchange. Based solely on the narrow
objective of supplying drugs and medical supplies, the achievement of objectives can be rated as
satisfactory, since only the HIV testing and counseling of persons component was unsuccessful. The
demonstrated much increased drug and supplies availability at peripheral level indicates considerable
institutional development in terms of stock management and distribution at various levels, besides the
improvements in ICB procurement and drugs registration at the central level. However, although the
Project was relevant, as an instrument it was not sufficient for Government to reduce the incidence and
impact of STIs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1.    Condoms. Although ODA financed the procurement of condoms through parallel financing, the
STI project continued to monitor this indicator (see Ainex 1). Over the project's life condom availability
at central level increased by 25%. Peripheral availability in facilities remained at around 75-80%.
Although no target had been set at appraisal, this can be considered as satisfactory progress both in supply
and demand.
2.     STD program support. Support for policy formulation and implementation, research and
training, strengthening data collection, and improved detection and treatment of STDs was provided by
DFID. IDA support for this component consisted only of the acquisition of basic diagnostic tests and
-6 -



supplies for laboratory confirmation of STDs, and the acquisition of pharmaceuticals needed for the
treatment of STDs. Technical assistance (TA) was hired by MOHCW for the NACP in order to establish
the STD program. Zimbabwe had developed a syndromic approach to STDs and trained many health
workers, doctors and trainers of trainers, in two established GU centers in Harare and Bulawayo.
Supervisory visits were undertaken by NACP to all provinces to further improve the program. The
approach and the way Zimbabwe established its guidelines, are internationally recognized as a best
practice. Surveillance -for STIs received DFID support as well, but collection of antenatal HIV and
syphilis surveillance data remained patchy, as did HIV prevalence estimates among TB patients; no data
were systematically assembled on disease incidence/prevalence or behavior change among target groups.
PHRD funds, through the World Bank, were provided for the design of a compact, comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) strategy for the NACP; this was essential for NACP in implementing its
coordinating role in the fight against AIDS. Although the strategy was very well received by MOHCW
authorities, its implementation has been lackluster. Various consultants hired with DFID support for M&E
in NACP have all performed below expectation, since they did not carefully follow up on the strategy. The
indicators have, however, contributed to the general "bench mark" system for MOHCW. The ultimate
impact of the STD program would be a reduction in STD incidence, and, as mentioned before, such a
reduction was registered, although the picture is not convincingly clear. An evaluation undertaken in 1999
acknowledges that reporting of STDs through tally sheets is incomplete and that using these will give an
under-estimate. At the same time health facilities are reporting all cases of vaginal discharge, regardless of
whether it is caused by a true STD, so this results in over-reporting. The reason for the registered decline
in STD incidence may also indicate either a positive change towards safer sexual behavior among the
people of Zimbabwe, or that people are not seeking care in clinics, preferring traditional care. An
amendment to the DCA in 1995 created a disbursement category for TA. Policy development could have
been carried out, as well as undertaking work on behavior change (as recommended by the Bank's team),
and a review of the response strategy for VCT by the University of Zimbabwe, but these were not
undertaken because agreement could not be reached on terms of reference or candidate TA between
MOHCW and the Bank. Annex 1 provides an overview of the indicators of the M&E strategy, and the
results as far as these were available.
3.    Treatment of HIV-related infections. The national TB program received ample support under
this component, and it was provided in close coordination with the Dutch bilateral support, already in
existence for many years. Several large procurements of TB drugs were carried out, and a one-year buffer
for TB drugs at central level was established per WHO recommendation. To improve the national TB
control program, equipment for the Public Health Laboratory was procured. Diagnostic laboratory
equipment, such as microscopes for all district laboratories and incubators for regional labs, was also
procured together with reagents, universal bottles, slides, sputum cups, etc. The Project also supported the
procurement of motorbikes for district environmental health workers who were responsible for the TB
program at district level. Since AIDS can manifest itself through a wide variety of diseases, the Project
procured drugs for the increased AIDS-related general morbidity in the country, including treatment for
diarrhea, pneumonia, and yeast infections. Approximately eight large ICB tenders for drugs were carried
out and permission to utilize shopping for emergency procurement was granted on several occasions. The
project was successful in providing commodity support and thus contributed to timely and correct disease
management.
4.     HIV diagnosis and screening. The Project funded travel abroad for staff of NACP to familiarize
themselves with VCT services. An evaluation of an existing VCT center in Bulawayo indicated that the
center was highly appreciated by the clients, however NACP failed to pilot this intervention. NACP would
not allow a consultant to do the work and could not reach agreement with a provider to set up centers,
although several versions of the proposal were reviewed there was no movement on this front. Since then
- 7-



VCT centers have been established through USAID funding. The planned support for the procurement of
HIV testing kits under this component never materialized, since the NBTS wanted to sole source the kits
which they had used for several years and been very satisfied with. The Bank objected to sole source
financing of the equipment and kits since large quantities had to be procured and since the selected
equipment and kits were not considered necessarily the best value for money. Altemative funding was
utilized to procure the NBTS needs, Bank supervision teams closely monitored NBTS coverage, and it
continued to achieve 100% HIV-test coverage for all blood products handled by the institution.
5.    Health systems support. The project procured large quantities of disposable items, such as
gloves, syringes, and needles, for which demand had increased dramatically due to the AIDS epidemic.
Shopping for gloves of various sizes was undertaken when critical shortages arose for the items in the
entire country. The increased demand for disinfectants was also met by the project. The adequate
provision of all these items provided a well recognized measure of protection for health staff, and their
clients.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ERR was not calculated for in the design of this project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
An FRR was not calculated for the project at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although institutional development was not an objective of the Project, its impact in this area is rated as
substantial for various reasons. AIDS needs to be addressed massively and in a multi-sectoral way. Over
the life of the STI project, the insufficiency of Zimbabwe's response to the AIDS epidemic became
increasingly clear. As noted, the Project was narrow, simple, and drug and supplies-dominated, because
that was all that GOZ would agree to borrow for. It is evidence of the view that ministries took in the early
1990s, and an important reason Zimbabwe didn't succeed against AIDS in that decade. GOZ's approach
also kept NACP weak. Although the Project didn't support policy dialogue per se, the Bank supervision
teams consistently and extensively discussed sectoral policy and had an input into its design. Over the life
of the STI Project, Zimbabwe has made some major changes in the way it addresses the epidemic. Most
notably, it has now established a multi-sectoral body, the National AIDS Council, and has uniquely
established an "AIDS levy", a 3 percent income tax, to be administered by the Council in the Government's
fight against AIDS. At the macro-level the Bank entered much too late into a discussion with Government
on the economic implications of the AIDS epidemic.
The project has had a major impact on public procurement of drugs and supplies. Until the early 1 990s,
Zimbabwe had a rather closed economy, resulting in items being procured on the local market at
non-competitive prices. The introduction of the Project meant that drugs and medical supplies had to be
procured through ICB if Project funds were to be utilized. The steep learning curve in using the Bank's
procurement guidelines and methods led to much resistance initially from both the purchaser and local
suppliers. Delays in the procurement process led to shortages and the Bank was often blamed. Wrongly it
had been assumed that the availability of finances would resolve the drug availability problem in
Zimbabwe. It soon became clear that many other factors played a role in the drug shortages, such as
unexpected delays in drug registration, irregularities in distribution of drugs from the central stores to
peripheral facilities, poor performance of intemational and local firms, and delays in handling the project's
accounts by the banks. In response to these concems GMS organized a very well prepared and attended
workshop in May 1997 for all parties involved in pharmaceuticals for the public sector, including local
manufacturers, Government Tender Board, Medicines Control Authority of Zimbabwe (MCAZ),
- 8 -



MOHCW, and the Bank (see attached workshop document). All aspects of the procurement cycle were
reviewed and, by the end of the day, solutions had been proposed for the bottlenecks identified. Participants
went away with a clearer understanding about the various aspects of procurement and it helped to broaden
most people's views. Many of the proposed solutions were implemented after the workshop resulting in
smoother procurement. As an illustration of the workshop's success, Government's tender documents were
adapted to include some clauses of the Bank's standard bidding document.
GMS is now being cornmercialized and experiences under the STI Project have had an impact on this
development. During the Project, it became increasingly clear that a more independent GMS would be
better able to do the job than a public company which had almost no say in the hiring and firing of its
workers. While the project did not enhance participation of the private sector directly, by impacting on the
commercialization of GMS it has certainly contributed indirectly.
The agency responsible for drugs registration, MCAZ, saw its workload increase tremendously due to the
STI project. This led to severe delays in the first half of the project, until extra staff were hired and new
arrangements were made for handling registration of drugs procured under and outside the Project.
Within the Bank the Zimbabwe STI Project also had some institutional impact, as it has helped to raise
awareness among top Bank management that AIDS is a major threat to development in Africa. A special
unit, ACTAfrica, has now been created in the Region to spearhead the Bank's response. (see further under
7.3)
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The AIDS epidemic is currently ravaging the population of Zimbabwe with an estimated 1400 deaths per
week attributed to it. So far, few countries have had success in countering the epidemic, and where this has
happened, analysts may point to some crucial policy aspects which have led to the decline in HIV
prevalence. Change in cultural beliefs and in habits is crucial, and this might be influenced by
Government, but is also well beyond Government control. Zimbabwe has lacked good role models, who
could have motivated the population towards the necessary behavioral changes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Weak implementation of macro-economic policies under Zimbabwe Programme for Economic and Social
Transformation (ZIMPREST) and political uncertainty have contributed to a situation of severe economic
downturn under which any project would have had difficulty in achieving any major development impact.
Limited conunitment of top leadership to AIDS has further hampered the Project and overall program
success. The general downturn of Zimbabwe's economy in the late 1990s, the worsening conditions of
service for civil servants, and the magnitude of the AIDS epidemic now place every possible positive
Project impact into jeopardy, as such conditions would do for any project.
In Uganda, declines in HIV prevalence are often at least partially contributed to high level political
commitment and leadership in the fight against AIDS. This has not been a strong feature of the Zimbabwe
program.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ICB procurement procedures for drugs and medical supplies were new for MOHCW and GMS and
brought an extra workload for staff at these institutions and at the MCAZ. The lack of manpower to deal
with the new situation could have been resolved if extra TA had been hired under the Project, since the
enormous savings and the increased workload under ICB amply justified such new recruitmnent. However,
-9-



until the very end MOHCW was reluctant to hire extra TA to facilitate project implementation, and when
TA was hired the salaries offered were too low to attract the necessary skills. The payment of counterpart
funds by GOZ during the Project was satisfactory. However, the lack of a coordinating mechanism and
control negatively impacted on smooth implementation of the Project. There was no systematic
consultation between the implementers; in particular, financial management and project oversight was
insufficient towards the end of the project. With the departure of the first project coordinator, oversight of
the Project suffered; this did not become apparent until the Credit was almost over-committed. GMS was
procuring without sufficient knowledge of available funds, and the PMU was unaware of the value of
tenders being undertaken by GMS. Changes in the coordinator and accounting staff in the PMU and staff
at GMS, with insufficient hand-over, resulted in suppliers not being paid. This only came to light when
suppliers refused to honor other commitments that they had entered into with GMS, or would telephone the
Bank demanding payment. Fortunately, this was not a frequent event.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the IDA credit of USD 64.5 million equivalent of SDRs was expected to fund 73% of the
overall cost, with GOZ funding 10%, and DFID funding the balance through co-financing. DFID's support
was provided through a stand-alone Sexual Health Project, which commenced in 1994 and funded several
of the components originally envisaged as part of the STI Project (e.g., condoms, TA for program
management and programmatic support to the STD program). At the end of the Project, the two categories
with the largest deviations from the planned expenditures were the drugs and diagnostics (86% of the
appraisal estimate), and medical equipment and supplies (192% of appraisal estimates). In totality the
amounts expended under these categories only varied from the estimates by around USD 1 million.
However, more moneys were spent on medical equipment and supplies as a result of the AIDS epidemic,
necessitating a greater need for items such as gloves and disposables than originally envisaged. Only 50%
of the amount anticipated at appraisal was used for office supplies and services. The uptake of technical
assistance was approximately USD 20,000 less than anticipated at the original closing date.
Schedule 5 of the DCA was amended in 1994 to allow for an increase in the authorized allocation for the
Special Account of the project from USD I million to IJSD 3 million. The increase was necessary because
of the larger flow of funds through the Account than originally anticipated. Even with an increased
allocation the Account was often totally blocked by Letters of Credit for the many large contracts under the
project. The PMU was advised to request Special Commitments and direct payments by the World Bank
and to increase the frequency of submission of withdrawal applications, which they did. Schedule I of the
DCA was amended in August 1995 to include a category for vehicles and maintenance, and technical
assistance, after a savings of approximately USD 3 million was realized from the first ICB. Vehicles,
urgently needed for implementation and supervision of the STD and TB programs, were procured for
provincial and district level staff. Technical assistance was utilized to fund additional staff at GMS, and
accountng staff at the PMU. The DCA was amended again in late 1999 to allow for a reallocation of
funds among categories to more accurately reflect the anticipated expenditures.
Payments for local costs (e.g., local supplieis or technical assistance) were made by the Central Payments
Office (CPO) in Zimbabwe on behalf of the Project, since such payments were always made in local
currency, in accordance with GOZ regulations. Requests by CPO seeking reimbursement from MOHCW
were slow, sometimes several years later, at a time when the Zimbabwe dollar suffered from high inflation.
For these reasons Government has lost probably around USD 1.5 million over the life of the project, and
the late submission of requests for payment from the CPO has meant that towards the end of the Project the
PMU was not able to honor these payments made on behalf of the Project, as this would have resulted in an
over-commitment of the Credit.
The lack of systems both in the PMU, and the Bank, to track commitments made by the Project was a
- 10-



weakness on both sides. Since there was no tracking system, the PMU was unaware of the amounts which
had been paid on its behalf by the CPO. GMS had no idea how much money the Credit had for the
procurement of necessary items towards the end of the Credit. Since this was not an issue for GMS, as it
was not involved in the financial management of the Credit, it continued to tender for drugs and supplies.
GMS would procure and send bills to the PMU for payment; there was no way for GMS to know if the
payments had been made. In some instances PMU's failure to pay the suppliers only came to light when
they refused to honor other contracts due to non-payment by PMU of previous STI contracts. The Bank's
Status of Loans and Credits does not capture amounts for which no objections have been issued, but for
which contracts have not yet been entered into. Since contracts for the supply of drugs were not entered
into until they were registered, large amounts might actually be blocked by "no objections", but not
captured in that system. A manual count of outstanding payments, in a concerted effort on the part of the
Bank, GMS and the PMU to ascertain the true status of the Credit, resulted in a few contracts having to be
reduced or canceled. A better financial management system would have helped avoid the problems
described above.
At closing, around USD 900,000 of the Credit remained undisbursed, since the World Bank stopped
disbursements to the country by mid October 2000 due to the country reaching non-accrual status. It is
unlikely that Government will pay its arrears to the World Bank in time for the remaining funds under the
Credit to be disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
Before the STI project, Zimbabwe was accustomed to buying its drugs and supplies mainly from local
suppliers. The introduction of the Project required GMS to use international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures for the first time. The transition to ICB as the main method of procurement led to enormous
savings; the very first drug tender resulted in a savings of USD 2.9 million from the GMS estimate of USD
5 million. Through these savings and similar savings for other products, the Project contributed
tremendously to the sustainability of public procurement for the health sector in Zimbabwe and continuous
availability of drugs for the beneficiaries. However, there is little evidence as to whether such savings were
used towards strengthening structures associated with procurement. Under the general economic downturn
now experienced in Zimbabwe (a shrinking economy and current non-accrual status) sustainability of the
project is considered unlikely. Zimbabwe now lacks the foreign exchange necessary to procure drugs and
medical supplies for the public sector. If the country returns to buying only from local manufacturers for
these items, it will forego savings possible through ICB. Under the present economic circumstances the
local manufacturers are also constrained by their inability to obtain foreign exchange with which to procure
raw materials, jeopardizing their viability. During the project's life a series of health workers' strikes to
protest against their conditions of service took place and these conditions have only worsened. This
situation has resulted in a demotivated work force that negatively affects sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Major transitions are taking place related to the STI project. GMS is in the process of being
commercialized and Bank support that was to follow the Project was supposed to assist in this. However,
Zimbabwe's non-accrual status has resulted in the Bank currently working in a low case scenario, with
envisaged support only for AIDS and social protection. Funding for drugs and medical supplies to cover a
two year period will be provided for under the Enhanced Social Protection Project.
Government's proposed response to the AIDS crisis has gained momentum during the Project's life.
Through an act of Parliament, Government has installed a multi-sectoral National AIDS Council, mandated
- 11 -



to lead the sectors and society in the fight against the epidemic, and NACP's role has been reduced to a unit
in MOHCW responsible for the health aspects of the AIDS epidemic. Funding for the Council is derived
from a 3% AIDS levy, and the Council is responsible for administering and distributing these funds. The
Council is in the process of articulating procedures for accessing funds generated by the Levy, as well as
putting in place an M&E system which will also provide feedback on processes, impact, and outputs.
Given the present general economic downturn in Zimbabwe, it is difficult to foresee how drugs and medical
supplies can be made available without external assistance. Therefore, most of the improvements in drug
and supply availability achieved during the project are now lost due to an absolute lack of foreign exchange
to procure or distribute such items. The closing of the STI project, with no new support in place, in a
situation of economic downturn and the country in non-accrual status has already led to severe drug and
supplies shortages in the public sector.
Therefore, although several initiatives have taken place to move from project funding to regular operations,
which would all allow for a "likely" sustainability rating, the general socio-economic situation makes such
a rating impossible.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation was only marginally satisfactory. A skilled team prepared the
project in record time and had excellent working relationships with the Borrower. Needs were identified
within GOZ's overall program and the support provided by other development partners. The Project did
not create new institutions, but worked within existing arrangements and was not complex in its design,
although it had national coverage and involved three implementing agencies.
A serious design fault was the decision that the STI project drugs would be handled differently from other
drugs GMS procured. These items would receive a special code, since GMS would not have to pay for the
drugs and supplies procured with Project funds; its only expense would be a 15% handling charge;
typically paid by the requestor. In this instance, Project-procured items would continue to be invoiced to
facilities at the total costs of the drugs and/or supplies, including the handling charge, but in reality
facilities incurred no charge. A credit would be noted on the invoice for the amount of the items, and the
handling charge would be met either by MOHCW or from grant funding by a donor. The arrangement
shows that MOHCW and GMS were deemed at preparation to have the capacity to set up a complicated
arrangement that would clearly involve an extra workload. During implementation the arrangement proved
to be not very workable, because the same drug, e.g. Paracetamol, could be available to facilities at the
normal price or for free through the STI project, and this created unnecessary distortions. The assessment
of GMS' procurement capacity was however correct. The Stores received extensive support from a
bilateral donor and were capably run at Appraisal.
The appraisal team should have better realized that the procurement cycle for drugs and supplies is lengthy.
Items procured under the first tender only started arriving in the country in the second year of the project's
life. Disbursements from the Credit are only made when the goods are delivered. Financing five years
worth of drugs would therefore require a six to seven year period. Long before the original closing date it
was foreseen that an extension of two years would be needed; this might have been foreseen at Project
preparation. The preparation team should also have realized that unfamiliarity of the GMS with Bank
procurement rules would make some training beforehand necessary.
- 12 -



The STI Project would bring an extra workload to the Project Management Unit for the Second Family
Health Project. At Appraisal the unit was well capable to carry such extra load. It could not have been
foreseen at that time that the unit would weaken so much over the life of the Project. Appraisal is therefore
rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated unsalisfactory.
The project had been designed in the context of a wider program, and this context was not lost during
supervision. The aide memoire of all implementation support missions, as the team preferred to call them,
show that Bank teams always entered in dialogue with counterparts on the broader framework within which
the Project functioned. While FHP2 was under implementation, review missions were always undertaken
in tandem and allowed all parties to review the health sector as a whole and this was appreciated by GOZ.
Other donors involved in the fight against AIDS, especially ODAIDFID were invited and participated in the
missions. Other donors frequently participated in these missions, contributing to the holistic approach to
implementation review of the health sector. Dialogue with other donors intensified further when a team
member relocated from World Bank headquarters to the Zimbabwe Country Office.
The main focus of the project was on procurement of drugs and supplies, therefore procurement proficient
staff participated in the missions, and the Bank generally reacted expeditiously and adequately to GOZ
requests. As noted above, the learning curve for using ICB tender procedures as required under Bank
projects is steep, and this led to delays at several points in the procurement cycle. Whenever the Bank was
informed that these delays threatened drug or supply availability in health facilities, the Bank was
responsive and allowed for emergency procurement procedures such as local shopping. Occasionally
delays and stock-outs still occurred. In order to address the delays in the procurement, the Bank organized
a procurement workshop that included all stakeholders to identify and propose solutions to bottlenecks (see
7.3 below), and the procurement cycle became 30% shorter over the Project's life and drug availability
improved. During the second half of the project's life, the Bank had unusually intensive contact with the
implementing agencies. This was facilitated by the fact that one team member relocated to Zimbabwe,
while another team member moved to a neighboring country and frequently visited the country as a member
of the Presidential Commission of Review in to the Health Sector.
If financial management skills had been included in the Bank's team at mid-term, the serious financial
management issues (e.g., no mechanism for tracking funds committed, or Credit balance), which surfaced
in the second half of the project, would probably have been detected earlier. Once they were identified,
they could have been addressed more pro-actively by the Bank. In the latter part of the Project the audit
reports highlighted some anomalies, but these reports were received after serious delays. The issues
highlighted related mainly to a lack of overview of the financial status of the project. The Country Office,
with supportive visits of a financial management specialist from the Malawi Country Office, worked
proactively with the management unit to address these. A second potentially problematic area was the
absence of Bank systems to allow for quick tracking of expenditures, particularly a mechanism to track
awarded contracts awaiting registration. In addition, the capacity to track expenditures by component, if
procurement crosses components, is lacking. The inability to accurately track "committed" amounts almost
resulted in an over-commitment of the Credit; this was averted by a thorough analysis undertaken at the
Country Office level with GMS, who tendered for items, and MOHCW, who was responsible for paying
the suppliers.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance must be rated unsatisfactory.
- 13 -



For a long time, during project implementation, the level of importance given to AIDS by Bank
management was lower than it should have been. Therefore, the Bank's macro-dialogue on AIDS with the
country was inadequate during the first years of the Project.
The picture is, however, not completely black. In 1996, the Bank's team took advantage of a visit to
Zimbabwe of the new Vice President for the Africa Region to organize a meeting under the title:
Development and the AIDS Challenge. The evening brought together a broad range of stakeholders from
all key sectors in society: health, labor unions, the private sector, churches, the Commercial Framers
Union, community-based peer groups, academia, donors and others. The Bank was praised from many
quarters, including its traditional critics, for mounting such an event, as it helped to draw attention to the
crisis.
Although difficulties during implementation made the relationship with Government sometimes a bit
strained, the Bank's team clearly had the trust and respect of the Government, and it was due to this good
relationship that problems could be resolved. Governments' appreciation of the Bank's team is
demonstrated by the fact that a team member was asked to serve as a member of the Presidential Review
Commission of the Health Sector.
Although the project had three task managers from preparation until completion, large overlap of these
managers guaranteed smooth transitions. Overall the Zimbabwe health team changed very little over the
Project's life.
At mid-term the project was not restructured, since it was deemed that the project was clearly achieving its
objective of supplying drugs and medical supplies. Simple restructuring would not be sufficient to address
the broad multi-sectoral issues which needed to be addressed to tackle the AIDS epidemic in an efficacious
way. At that time the Bank started preparing for an AIDS Learnig and Innovation Loan (LIL), and a new
broad health sector project.
When an extension of tha closing date was sought, Bank management concluded that retrofitting the Credit
was without merit since it was fully committed. It was agreed that Bank staff would collect additional data
related to the PDO and project objectives to get a better idea of the Project's impact. The Bank did
acknowledge that more needed to be done, and when the preparation for the AIDS LL did not result in a
project, Zimbabwe was put into the first phase of the Multi-country AIDS Program, despite the arrears
situation.
Borrower_
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The GOZ, especially MOHCW, was very
motivated to receive Bank support for the STI Project. Preparatory documnentation, studies and workshops
were therefore organized with diligence, and the project was prepared in record time.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The rating for the Government is unsatisfactory. A number of Government institutions were involved in
the implementation, and a few were outside the direct control of the MOHCW: the Government Tender
Board, MCAZ, CPO and the Auditor General's Office.
CPO's performance under the Project was very poor. The CPO in the MOF made all local payments under
the STI Project, and was to seek reimbursement from ithe Project. Bookkeeping at the CPO was below
- 14-



standard, and delays of several years in the request for reimbursement were experienced. These delays
have been very costly for Zimbabwe, since the fall in the exchange rate prejudiced the repayment, and when
reimbursement was sought towards the end of the Project the Credit was fully committed.
Delays in receiving audit reports in a timely manner were experienced in the latter half of the Credit. This
has been a general problem for all World Bank projects in Zimbabwe during the last few years, and stems
mainly from inadequate capacity (under-staffing) of the Auditor General's office. Delays, however, were
minimized towards the end of the project.
The Government Tender Board did a remarkable job during implementation, given its increased workload.
Tenders were handled in a professional and transparent way, bid-evaluation reports were reviewed
timeously, and extra meetings were organized if necessary. There was only once a disagreement between
Bank and Board over a bid evaluation report, and this led to a delay of a few months, when the Board
refused to reconsider its resolution on the evaluation. It only did so when it became clear that the Bank
would be unable to finance any item of the tender concerned if it could not grant IDA's "no objection" to
the evaluation.
MCAZ saw its workload increase enormously because of the open character of ICB. Many new products
needed to be tested by MCAZ for registration in Zimbabwe. For the first tenders this led to long delays,
with registration taking over a year in some cases. Once MCAZ prioritized registration of drugs procured
under the STI Project, its performance improved tremendously.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency is rated unsatisfactory.
At appraisal, it was anticipated that NACP, a department in MOHCW, would be responsible for the
overall coordination of implementation. However, the drugs would be procured by GMS, and the financial
unit of FHP2's Project Management Unit would have responsibility for financial management. At the start
NACP's performance was good, but this soon slipped. The institutional arrangements were insufficient to
give NACP the necessary authority to lead the fight against AIDS in the country. Furthermore, the
working conditions of its civil servants were such that several staff of NACP felt that they could only
survive if they spent a substantial part of their time on non-public activities. This resulted in the full-time
duties being carried out on a part-time basis. The NACP especially failed in undertaking some of the
envisaged studies to evaluate Zimbabwe's response to the epidemic and the STI project impact study was
never carried out, meriting low marks for M&E
GMS hired TA to assist in the procurement of drugs and supplies under the project and performed
satisfactorily. However, weak financial control in the PMU meant that GMS staff were procuring drugs
and supplies with insufficient knowledge of available budgets. This almost led to an over-commitment of
IDA funds towards the original Project closing date, resulting in tenders and contracts having to be
canceled. At the time that these problems surfaced, GMS was critically understaffed since its Controller
was replaced, the TA's contract was not renewed, and the chief buyer went on maternity leave. While
these events were beyond the control of GMS, they seriously affected its performance. Intensive support
from the Bank's Country Office assisted GMS and the PMU in regaining control over the commitmnents
made under the Project.
The PMUJ for FHP2 carried out financial management for the STI Project, although it never felt the same
ownership for this Project as it did for FHP2. For example, it did not assist in a pro-active way when
problems under procurement for equipment for the Public Health Laboratory arose, although later in the
- 15 -



Project the PMU took on more of such responsibilities. The quality of the TA for financial management,
towards the end of the project was below standard. Never was there any indication of misuse of fands,
however. Over the project's life, the PMU had three coordinators, with scant attention paid to the Project
by the middle coordinator, who did not hand-over to the next coordinator, exacerbating the difficulties
described above.
The formation of a management committee would have helped strengthen the communication between the
NACP, the PMU, GMS and Public Health Laboratory, and overall performance of the Project vis-a-vis
financial management.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The fact that major improvements in drug and medical supplies availability were achieved during the
project, the improved quality of STD services and the indications for a decrease in STD prevalence, seem
to allow for a satisfactory rating for overall performance of the Borrower under the Project. However, these
results were achieved with so many preventable difficulties, that performance must be rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
AIDS has to be addressed massively and in a multi-sectoral way. The example of the STI Project
shows clearly that the narrow health focus and the emphasis on pharmaceuticals and medical supplies made
the STI project a relevant but very insufficient instrument in the fight against the epidemic. The project
provided a correct complement to the support provided by others in the health sector, but the dramatic
increase of HIV prevalence over the life of the project makes abundantly clear that the overall strategy was
totally inadequate and why the Multi-sectoral AIDS Projects are so necessary.
Simplicity in design, often hailed, is not by definition a good thing. The STI Project was very simple in
its design, relying on support from others in a complex policy and programmatic situation. It was
dependent on parallel financing of programmatic aspects. Although the STI project itself delivered the
goods it was supposed to deliver, the less than expected success of the other interventions has hampered the
potential impact of the STI Project. It seems therefore that such dependency can only be allowed if
Government itself or IDA takes responsibility for supporting lagging components, or if sector-wide
approach arrangements are established.
The STI project functioned well as a complementary project to the Second Family Health Project, but was
too narrow in scope to function on its own. One should not have assumed that another broad-based
health project would follow the Second Family Health Project.
Joint supervision missions led to cost savings and enhanced the usefulness of reviews. The joint
supervision missions for the STI Project and the Second Family Health Project enhanced the usefulness of
the reviews for the Bank, donors, and Borrower. The joint implementation support missions also have
allowed for large cost savings for the Bank under both projects.
Requiring that a drug can only be used for "project related" purposes results in inefficiencies. Under
the project many STI-related items have been procured. Most of these items, however, could also be used
for other morbidity. For example, some of the antibiotics, procured under the project, serve equally well to
treat infections of the respiratory as of the genito-urinary tract. The same holds for gloves and syringes.
These examples show that strict enforcement of the requirement "only for STI-related diseases" would have
led to very impractical solutions. The fungibility argument further makes a case against strict enforcement
of the requirement. Future projects that provide funds for procurement of drugs or supplies should be more
- 16-



cognizant that many drugs and items have multiple uses and that a requirement that they can only be used
for one purpose introduces undesirable inefficiencies in the health system.
Special arrangements should not be set up for items procured with Bank funding. It is inefficient to
establish special arrangements for items procured under a Bank project that are different from the general
arrangements for these items established by Government. GMS would normally charge for the drugs it
delivered to the districts or health facilities. For the STI drugs GMS was allowed to charge only a handling
fee. This created a situation in which the same drug could have two different prices in a facility, depending
on the source of funds. This resulted in the STI project drugs eventually replacing the others.
Necessary training in Bank procurement procedures should be provided up-front. The learning curve
for World Bank procurement guidelines is steep; although this may sound obvious, it is often not taken into
account in project design. Only later in the project, the Borrower recognized the advantages of the Bank's
tender procedures and how they protect both the Government and the contractors. Training on Bank
procedures for the various bidding processes and work planning should be included in project preparation
and implementation support as necessary.
You get what you pay for. In order to recruit appropriate TA, one has to offer salary conditions which
are considerably better than those of regular staff. It is often stated that high salaries offered for TA make
civil servants resign from their jobs, and leave work to be done by TA which should have been carried out
by regular staff. Under the STI Project the skills of the TA hired were often marginally sufficient or, in the
case of financial management, clearly insufficient. The low quality of the TA can easily be understood
since the conditions offered were often below the level offered for regular staff. The Project thus teaches
that paying low salaries for necessary TA isn't the solution either.
Projects with multiple implementing agencies should be designed with a coordinating mechanism to
safeguard against fragmentation of efforts or uncoordinated implementation.
Appropriate monitoring tools need to be in place to track information that is required to measure
performance and financial status of the Project. There is need to develop an information system which
enables the Bank to trace disbursement not only by disbursement category, but also by project component.
Since disbursement categories and project components do not overlap, a differential in performance among
components which procure items of the same disbursement category cannot be traced in the systems
presently in place. In addition, a system that allows one to track credit balances based on "no objections"
would be immensely helpful in ensuring that over-commitments do not occur.
The use of independent auditors could be more efficient and transparent than the use of public
auditors. The fact that auditing responsibility for the IDA Credit was with the Auditor General's Office
made it difficult to address non-compliance with the DCA with regards to audits. It seems preferable to
ensure that an independent firm outside of Government is responsible for audits of World Bank Loans and
Credits.
- 17 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
23rd May, 2001
Public Health Specialist
Human Development 1, Africa Region
World Bank
United States of America
Attention: Dr Kees Kostermans
RE:  WORLD BANKIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIONREPORTFORIDA CREDIT2516-ZIM
(STI PREVENTION AND CARE PROJECT)
I have read the report as indicated above and have made my comments as follows:-
COMMENTSICRITIQUE
1.   The original objective of the Project was not the prevention and control of
H IV/AIDS - these would however be downstream benefits (refer to 3).
2.   The objective/goal was to reduce the incidence and impact of STI through
commodity support in the context of STI prevention and control programme.
3.   The document acknowledges the fact that the strategies/programme the Ministry
of Health and Child Welfare designed was best practice at the time (WHO/GPA) -
generally medicalizing the approach to HIV/AIDS.
4.   The Bank only got converted and realised the multisectoral strategy and
approach to HIV/AIDS in 1999 and published the document (Intensifying Action Against
HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development Crisis).
5.   The Bank has admitted that its project was inflexible and currently opts for
Adjustable Program Lending (APL) - the inflexible STI Project can therefore not be
judged on the basis of an evolving approach to HIV/AIDS as unsatisfactory (if it could
not evolve with renewal of strategies).
On the basis of the objectives of the project - the project/program achieved its
outcome objectives. The problem is obviously sustainability.
- 18-



Referring to page 2
1.   Overall objective to reduce the incidence and impact of STI - objective achieved
(7% reduction).
2.   Adequate supplies of condoms: increased by 25% (75-90%) study by
Labode/Sikosana, ZEDAP Availability Surveys)
3.   Develop a framework/program for STI prevention and control {the major
component was the development of protocols - the Syndromic Approach and its
application.
*    Sydromic Approach developed and applied.
*    Health workers trained and from a baseline of 45% in 1995 by 1998 this had
increased to 63% of health workers managing STDs according to set protocols.
4.   Availability of STI commodities improved dramatically and evidence from (3)
indicates they were effectively used.
5.   Ensure continued safety of the blood supply: the National Blood Transfusion
Services maintained its high standards and as such the STI project was not allowed to
disrupt existing procurement process that were in place.
6.   The problem with the ratings given by the Bank is the obsession with processes
and rigid procedures and need for compliance by Borrowers, these are extremely
disruptive and cumbersome for health workers who have other responsibilities than
projects.
Apparently the Overall Bank Performance is unsatisfactory because procedures in
financial management were not followed - well and good, a Bank should obviously
be able to do so.
For the health ministry this is desirable and helpful but not the core business of the
ministry, no funds were corruptlv utilized and within this prolect and this must
be stated and it seems to be the preoccupation/concern of Development
Agencies to express concem and monitor this asPect.
7.   Borrower - Financial management performance yes was unsatisfactory (if this is
what 7.5 means). Were funds corruptly used?
7.6. Implementing Agency Performance
A monitoring and evaluation strategy was developed and indicators (WHO) were
- 19-



utilized but there were not satisfactory for the Bank but considered sufficient by
the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare.
Again the whole argument on the unsatisfactory performance by the Ministry of
Health and Child Welfare is based on non-adherence to Bank processes.
It must be clear that as a project the STI project had to be relevant and necessarily
insufficient on its own. It must be viewed as part of the MTP which had other
components - by definition this is what a project is/should be. The MTP was also
implemented in the context of the Health for All Action PLAN (up to 2000). It is
therefore NOT logical to evaluate the outcome of this project on the basis of
expectations of the whole sector/or program.
One of the major points of departure between the Bank's perception of the project and
the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare (Implementing Agency) was the Banks
preoccupation in trying to isolate STI Project from the rest of the Ministry's
organizational systems. The creation of a PMU of a select few perfect machines to
drive these project - as a result when one individual left the PMU there was severe
disruption in the operationalisation of the Bank's procedures, particular in financial
management. There was also a tendency to isolate the Bank part from the DFID
portion of the STI activities.
On the basis of outcome/output objectives the STI Project must be rated satisfactory.
DR P L N SIKOSANA
SECRETARY FOR HEALTH AND CHILD WELFARE
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
WHO and DFID were invited for comments. No comments received.
10. Additional Information
The World Bank Operations Evaluation Department evaluated the impact of the World Bank support to the
health sector in Zimbabwe as part of its global evaluation of World Bank support to the health sector.
(Jonhston, T., The impact of World Bank support to the HNP sector in Zimbabwe, WB report 18141, June
1998.)
With regards to the STI Project the evaluation concluded:
1.    Bank support for the purchase of STI drugs closed a major financing gap, contributed to
significant cost savings in drug procurement, and initially increased drug availability. Other
bottlenecks later emerged that reduced drug availability, undermining program effectiveness. STI
drug availability increased to 89 percent in the first two years of the project, but then fell to 73
percent in 1996, primarily because of reversals of government contract awards by Bank
procurement specialists, and delays in registering drugs procured through intemational competitive
- 20 -



bidding (ICB). Government staff did not initially receive adequate training in Bank procurement
procedures, and Bank supervision of procurement was initially inadequate to resolve bottlenecks.
Increased supervision and management attention by both government and Bank staff contributed a
recovery in STI drug availability in 1998.
2.    Bank-funded research has helped raise awareness in Zimbabwe regarding the seriousness of the
AIDS epidemic, and the Bank has cosponsored innovative community AIDS prevention initiatives.
The government's response, however, still is not commensurate with the scale of the epidemic,
which may claim 1 million lives in the next decade.
The report's lessons and recommendations applicable to the STI Project were:
* Macroeconomic policies and performance have had a greater influence on the health sector than Bank
project lending, but the Bank has not effectively linked health sector investments and strategies to
macroeconomic dialogue, particularly regarding health staffing and civil service reform. Political
leaders, however, have not demonstrated commitment to deficit reduction. To prevent further
deterioration in the public health sector, government must give priority to reducing the budget deficit
and restructuring debt service. In the medium-term, the budget for health will remain constrained, so
government and partners will need to focus on increasing efficiency and redistributing existing
expenditure.
* The AIDS epidemic is the most serious problem facing the health system and, along with the deficit,
the economy as a whole. Government and political leaders must give greater priority and visibility to
AIDS prevention, and establish an effective intersectoral response to the epidemic. Experience
elsewhere has shown that strong leadership and political commitment can halt the growth of the
epidemic and save hundreds of thousands of lives.
* The Bank could better balance efforts to promote efficiency and cost savings (for example, through
large projects and international competitive bidding for procurement) with the need to maintain
flexibility and achieve impact. Flexibility of lending instruments in a changing environment is a major
determinant of project effectiveness, but flexible design should not substitute for clear strategy.
* Project with a major pharmaceutical component require up-front training for both government and
Bank staff-with periodic follow-up training-to avoid bottlenecks that could interrupt drug availability.
Bank procurement procedures could be streamlined to reduce the burden on borrowers, but the cost
savings achieved through international competitive bidding are also essential to ensure drug availability
in the face of tight budgets and growing demand for drugs.
* Preventive and community-based approaches were fundamental to the rapid health improvements of the
1980s, and could be applied more vigorously to the challenges of the 1990s, particularly HIV/AIDS
and malaria.
An OED Precis (No. 176), titled "Meeting the Health Care Challenge in Zimbabwe" was prepared as well,
summarizing the conclusions of the above mentioned study.
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A log frame matrix was not prepared for this project. We present here two tables. The first table gives the
results for the project indicators as they were defined in the Staff Appraisal Report. The second large
table gives an overview of the key indicators of the Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy which was
designed during project implementation. We will provide as many data as available to us to reflect the
circumstances under which the project functioned.
Table 1. Results for STI Project Indicators as defined in SAR.
Indicator         1993              1995              1998              2000
1. Condom         11.5              10.7             12.6               13.3
availability at
central level.
2. Condom         not available.    a. 11 days        a. in 35% of      a. not available
availability at                                    facilities a stock-out
health facilities.               b. 76%            was recorded.     b. provincial
(a) total number of                                                    average 78%
days condoms                                       b.91% (NACP       (range 43-100%).
were out of stock                                  figure)
during a 3-moth
period;                                            89% (MOHCW)
(b) % of facilities
with condoms on
day of survey.
3. Peripheral     Not available     Not available     87.8%
condom availability.
4. STI drug       68%               89%               87% (1997)        81%
availability.
5. Total number of 9.7 days         5.4 days          2.9 days          11.8
days 5 TB drugs
out of stock over a
3-month period.
6. Number of     Not available      Not available    No national data,   Not available
people requesting                                     but availability is
HIV testing or                                        on the rise since
counseling                                            more NGOs are
compared to the                                       providing the
number receiving                                      service.
the service.
7. Percentage of   100%             100%              100%              100%
blood samples
tested for HIV in
the Blood
Transfusion
Services.
Notes:
- 22 -



* Indicator 1. Condom availability at central level is calculated by dividing total number of condoms
available for distribution during the preceding 12 months by the population aged 15-49 years.).
* Indicator 3. Peripheral condom availability is calculated by dividing the number of people who can
acquire a condom by the population aged 15-49 years.
* Indicator 4. STI drmg availability calculated the average drug availability in facilities for a number of 9
STI drugs.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION MATRIX
The following set of tables presents the available results for the indicators developed for monitoring and
evaluation of the NACP. They show changes in service statistics, knowledge, attitude and practices with
regards to HIV/AIDs as reflected in the results of the Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Surveys of 1994
and 1999, and other available information such as studies and MOHCW statistics. The evaluation strategy
indicators themselves were developed with Bank support during the implementation of the STI project.
Besides the indicators themselves, the origibal matrix also indicated for each indicator the method of
collection., the responsible agency and the periodicity of collection. We record here the full set of tables
since we consider the information very useful for the design of future HIV/AIDS projects and since the
results show better the broader environment in which the STI Project functioned.
Table 2. National AIDS Coordination Program (NACP) Evaluation Strategy, Results for Indicators
for Monitoring and Evaluation.
Table 2.1. A. Indicators for Objective 1.1. To increase public awareness and knowledge of prevention
gainst HIV/AIDS/STD.
Indicator                    Baseline data                 End of project data/comments
1. 1. 1. Project performance in                           too vague an indicator
relation to health education-what
are the targets and were they met?
1.1.2. The proportion of schools  Family health education program  HIV/AIDS education is now
which include HIV/AIDS/STD    being developed with UNICEF    standard in curricula of all
education in their curriculum.  support.                   Drima  and secondary schools..
1.1.3. Number of people 15-49   ZDHS 1994: (at least one method) ZDHS 1999: (at least one
citing at least 2 acceptable ways  women: 84.1%            method):
of protection from HIV infection  men: 92.9%               women: 82.5%
as proportion of the total number                          men: 91.5%
of people aged 15-49 surveyed.                             (at least two methods): women:
55.8%; men 67.6%
1. 1.4. Number of school pupils
citing at least 2 acceptable ways
of protection from HIV infection
as proportion of the total number
of school children surveyed.
1.1.5. The number of people who ZDHS 1994:                 ZDHS 1999:
are aware that a healthy looking   women: 74.4%            women: 75.7%
person can have HIV infection as men: 85.4%                men: 85.3%
a proportion of the number of
people surveyed.
- 23 -



Table 2.1 B. Indicators for Objective 1.2. To promote relevant behavioral changes to reduce risk of
sexual acquisition and sexual transmission of HIVIAIDS/STD.
Indicator                     Baseline data                 End of Project results
1.2.1. Condom availability at    1992: 10.1                1997: 12.7
central level: Total number of  1993: 11.5                  1998: 12.6
condoms available for distribution 1994: 10.6               1999: 12.
during preceding 12 months    1995: 10.7                    2000: 13.3
divided by the population aged
15-49.
1.2.2. Condom availability                                 NACP 1997: 90%
peripheral: number of people who                           ZEDAP 1998: 82%
can acquire a condom divided by                            ZEDAP 2000: 78%
the population aged 15-49 years.
1.2.3. Proportion of people who   ZDHS 1994:               NACP 1997: 86%
report at least one place where    Women: 70.1%            ZDHS 1999:
condoms can be obtained.      Men: 79.7%                     Women: 71.8%
Men: 83.3%
1.2.4. Proportion of condoms    All condoms procured by public   All condoms procured by public
from distribution points that meets sector are tested to comply with  sector are tested to comply with
WHO quality standards.        WHO standards.                WHO standards.
1.2.5. Proportion of sexually  ZDHS 1994:                  ZDHS 1999 (last 12 months):
active people who report having   Married women: <1%        Married women: 1.3%
had at least one sex partner other  Married men: 6.1%       Married men: 15.7%
than their regular sex partner(s) in Unmaried women: 12.3%  Unmarried women: 26.8%
last 4 weeks.                 Unmaried men: 21.4%          Unmarried men: 42.1%
1.2.6. Proportion of people  ZDHS 1994:                    ZDHS 1999 (last intercourse):
reporting use of a condom during  Women: 38.4%              Women: 42.0%
sex (all or some of the time) with a Men: 59.5%            Men: 70.2%
non-regular partner in last 4
weeks.
1.2.7. Proportion of people  ZDHS 1994:                    ZDHS 1999 (last intercourse):
reporting use of a condom during  Women: 7.4% (spouse)      Women: 4.3% (spouse)
sex (all or some of the time) with a Men: 11.8% (spouse)   Men: 6.5% (spouse)
regular partner in last 4 weeks.
1.2.8. Fertility rate in females    ZDHS 1994:             ZDHS 1999:
aged 15-19 years.             0.099                        0.112
Table 2.1.C. Indicators for Objective 1.3. To ensure early detection and effective management,
including counseling on future risk reduction for people with sexually transmitted infections.
Indicator                     baseline data                 End of project data/comments
1.3.1. Availability of STI Drugs: ZEDAP:                   ZEDAP:
proportion of health facilities that 1993: 68%              1995: 89%
have the recommended stock levels                           1996: 82%
of STI drugs                                                1997: 87%
2000: 81%
- 24-



1.3.2. Anti-biotic sensitivity  done 1995
studies of gonorrhea.
1.3.3. Aethiological studies for   done 1995
urethral discharge, cervicitis and
genital ulcers.
1.3.4. Clinical audit of STD case ZEDAP 1993: 64% of cases of   1996: 49%
management according to the   urethral discharge treated     1998: 63%
nationally agreed protocols.  following guidelines
NACP 1995: 44%
1.3.5. Nurnber of individuals                                1998: 57%
presenting with STD in health
facilities who are assessed and
treated in an appropriate way, as a
proportion of all those individuals
presenting with an STD in the
health facility.
1.3.6. Number of individuals                                 1998: 75%
presenting with an STD, or for
STD care in health facilities who
received basic advice on condoms
and on partner notification, as a
proportion of all those individuals
presenting with STD or for STD
care in health facilities.
Table 2.1.D. Indicators for Objective 1.4. To reduce vertical transmission of HIV.
Indicator                     Baseline data                  End of project datal comments.
1.4. Proportion of babies born to                            Not a proper indicator since HIV
mothers known to have HIV who                                status of the mother is often
are infected with HIV.                                       unknown and babies are not tested
for HIV.
Table 2.1.E. Indicators for Objective 1.5. To reduce parental transmission of IIV due to use of
infected blood, blood products or unsterile equipment (for medical or other purposes).
Indicator                     Baseline data                  End of project data.
1.5.1. Proportion of blood and    1992: 100%                 1998: 100%
blood products screened for HIV. 1994: 100%                  2000: 100%
1.5.2. Prevalence of HIV in blood BTS: 1989: 5.2%            1995: 2.9%
donors.                             1992: 2.2%               1997: 1.2%
1.5.3. Proportion of health                                  Infection control is standard
facilities following standard                                included in all health worker
guidelines for infection control.                            training programs.
1.5.4. Proportion of health   no survey data.                no survey data.
facilities following guidelines for Guidelines prepared.
safe disposal of sharps.
- 25 -



Table 2.1.E. Indicators for Objective 1.6. To reduce the incidence of HIV and STD in the population.
Indicator                     Baseline data                 End of project data / comments
1.6.1. Prevalence of HIV in   1993:                         1999: 26%
pregnant women.
1.6.2. Prevalence of syphilis in   Harare: 1994: 1.8%      1998: 1.3%
pregnantwomen.                       1995: 2.1%             1999: 1.1%
1.6.3. Number of reported AIDS  1987:  119                  1996: 12029
cases.                        1993: 9174                    1997: 6732
1994: 10647                  1998:
1995: 10330                  1999:
2000:
1.6.4. Number of reported STD   1992: 878000                1996:839000
cases.                        1993: 879000                  1997: 814000
1994: 813000                 1998:
1995: 873000                 1999:
2000:
1.6.5. Number of cases of    no data                       no data
congenital syphilis.
1.6.6. Prevalence of syphilis in   1995: 3.1% (Harare)
pregnant women aged 15-24.
1.6.7. Proportion of men aged    1995: 2.4%
15-24 who report an episode of
urethritis in past 12 months.
1.6.8. Prevalence of HIV in   1992: 32%
pregnant women aged 15-24.
Table 2.2.C. Indicators for Objective 2.3. To promote community home-based care for people with
HIV/AIDS.
Indicator                     Base line data                End of project results/
comments
2.1.1. Number of patients in                               Indicator too hard to calculate
CHBC programme as a proportion
of the total number of known
HIV/AIDS patients in the area.
2.1.2. Number of CHBC                                       No survey data
programs providing care
according to a quality check list.
Table 2.2.D. Indicators for Objective 2.4. To afford people with AIDS the opportunity to die with
dignity within their community.
Indicator                     Base line data                End of project results
No numeric indicator suggested,                             PWA now included in national
but suggest NACP commission a                               AIDS Council.
small survey to investigate the
wishes of PWAs and their
families.
- 26 -



Table 2.3.A. Indicators for Objective 3.1. To minimize the economic impact of HIV/AIDS/STD on
the population.
Indicator                     Base line data               End of proiect results
3.1. Value of production losses                            Various impact studies have been
attributed to HIV/AIDS? STD in                             carried out. ZCTU has organized
elected production units.                                  peer education programs.
Table 2.3.B. Indicators for Objective 3.2. To improve cost-effectiveness of health services for
HIV/AIDS/STD
Indicator                     Base line data                End of project results
3.2. Proportion of total health    no data                 Impossible to calculate, but
spending that is related to                                estimated at 40-50%.
HIV/AIDS/STD
prevention/treatment and care.
Table 2.3.C. Indicators for Objective 3.3. To reduce the social impact of HIV/AIDS in relation to
orphaned children.
Indicator                     Base line data                End of project results
3.3. The proportion of children
under the age of 18 years who are
orphans.                      ___                          _
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost 5y Comp                        io    X     mihi*
Condoms                                               10.74
STD program                                          21.78
AIDS infections treatment                            31.24
HIV testing                                            2.75
Health system support                                  8.30
Total Baseline Cost                                   74.81           0.00
Physical Contingencies                               12.48
Total Project Costs             87.29            0.00
Total Financing Required              87.29            0.00
The first and part of the second component were financed by ODA (later DFID) under a parallel financing
arrangement.
Disbursements by disbursement category, planned and actual in SDR Million equivalent.
Disbursement category  Planned (at appraisal)   Planned (amendment    Actual (per Jan. 22,
1999)                2001)
1. Drugs and diagnostics    36.70               31.30                 31.54
2. Medical equipment      6.00                  12.50                 11.53
and supplies                             _
3. Office supplies and    0.22                  0.12                   0.12
services
4. Vehicles and                                 1.60                   1.59
maintenance
5. Technical Assistance                         0.03                   0.01
SA-A revolving fund                                                    0.04
Unallocated               2.68
Total                    45.60                  45.60                 44.83
-28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
| Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation    Development
Month/Year   Count              Specialty                        Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/92                        4   2 health specialists, 2 economists
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/93                          6   2 economists, I disease
control specialist, I
pharmacist, I infectious
diseases specialist, I
procurement specialist
Supervision
11/93                         4   1 economist, 2 public health,         HS               HS
I STI specialist
6/94                                                                    HS                S
11/94                         3   1 public health, I economist, I       HS                S
AIDS specialist
5/95                          3   1 public health, I economist, I        S                S
AIDS specialist
11/95                         2   1 public health, 1 economist           S                S
5/96                          3   1 public health, I economist, 1        S                S
sr. technical health specialist
11/96                         3   1 public health, I economist, I        S                S
sr. technical health specialist
6/97                          4   1 public health, 1 economist, 1        S                S
sr. technical health specialist, I
OA
11/97                         3   1 public health, I sr. technical       S                S
health specialist, 1 OA
6/98                          4   2 public health, 1 sr. technical       S                S
health specialist, I OA
12/98                         4   1 public health, I sr. technical       U                S
health specialist, 1 procurement,
I OA
4/99                          2   1 FM, I OA                             U                S
9/99                                                                     U                S
12/99                                                                    S                s
10/00                        4    1 public health, 1                     U                S
procurement, I
disbursement, I OA
- 30 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              Us$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               20.0                    BB = 49.7
4.9                   TF = 12.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                     16,3                   BB = 43.2
3.6                    TF = 5.8
Supervision                            155.72                  BB = 384.11
19.9                   TF = 33.7
ICR                                       0.1                     TF = 0.3
Total                                   192.02                 BB = 477.02
28.5                   TF = 52.7
*The Time Recording System (TRS) does not provide a distinction of staff week time between supervision
and preparation of the ICR. Therefore, the category "Supervision" above includes both implementation
supervision as well as the time and resources required to prepare this ICR.
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Physical                                  O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
LI Financial                                OH OSUOM  O N * NA
3 Institutional Development                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                  OH  OSU*M  O N  O NA
I Gender                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Other (Please specify)             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
The project has helped to put AIDS higher
on Zimbabwe's and the World Bank's agenda.
2 Private sector development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Public sector management                  0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                    O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS*S  OU  OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
E Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
N Government implementation performance              O HS O S  *  U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  *  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  *  U  O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Jonhston, T., The impact of World Bank support to the HNP sector in Zimbabwe, WB report 18141, June
1998.
Latif, A.S., A report on a study to determine the aetiology and pattern of STD amongst men and women
presenting to health centers in Harare, Zimbabwe, and to determine risk factors for cervicitis among
symptomatic and a symptomatic women. University of Zimbabwe, Department of Medicine, 1995.
Remedios, V., Kostermans, K., Public Procurement of Pharmaceuticals, Lessons from Zimbabwe.
November 1997.
Study available from the authors (e-mail: vremedios(ehg.dk and kkostermans(worldbank.org)
Sikosana, P.L.N., Labode, R., Assessing the Quality of Management of Sexually Transmitted Diseases in
Public Health Institutions in Zimbabwe. Ministry of Health and Child Welfare, Harare, 1998.
Latif, A.S., Marowa, E., Mbengeranwa, L., Siziya S., Evaluation of Integration of Prevention and Care of
STDs into Primary Health and Reproductive Health Services in Zimbabwe. Ministry of Health and Child
Welfare, Harare 1999.
- 34 -



IBRD 23446
MAtAWI                                        2'8'                    29-                                                1
ZAMBIA                                                                           T 
R$~'*-   verose                                                                                                                                                 K 'ti,HsposY   F )t          
NAM6fBA  \ ZIMBABWE              7
*    Province                                 R          C\
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-22    -      Mrov1r Se Roandoes        +         iso opiti ROJ\ECT :
--     SnerhondayStle Roadces        *     H PhusralCiise IHospitals "N   \2-
o          tO        lo0         150 KILOMETERS            ,r
O1509100 MILES                                           N D                                                                                       \                                                   9
_   2-   2-                     2-                      jEt6   2-                                       ..   .                1a                     32 DNORTHE 1



