Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2516 ZIM
                   Development Credit Agreement
   (Sexually Transmitted Infections Prevention and Care Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 14, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2516 ZIM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom intend to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding (the ODA MOU) for the purpose of making available
goods and services to the Borrower with a value equivalent to about
fourteen million eight hundred thousand dollars ($14,800,000) (the
ODA Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the ODA MOU; and
      (C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
      (b)   "GMS" means the Borrower's Government Medical Stores
within MOHCW;
      (c)   "HIV" means human immuno-deficiency virus;
      (d)    "MOHCW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Child Welfare;
      (e)   "NACP" means the Borrower's National AIDS Coordination
Program, a unit established within MOHCW for the coordination of all
HIV/AIDS/STD prevention and care activities in the territory of the
Borrower;
      (f)   "STD" means sexually transmitted disease;
      (g)   "STI" means sexually transmitted infection;
      (h)   "STD Program" means the Borrower's National STD
Prevention and Control Programme applicable to the years 1991-1995
which defines the strategy, policy framework, and activities for STI
control in the territory of the Borrower;
      (i)   "TB" means tuberculosis;
      (j)   "ZNFPC" means the Zimbabwe National Family Planning
Council;
      (k)   "ZAHEC" means the Zimbabwe Aids Health Experts Committee
established in 1986 by the Borrower's Ministry of Health; and
      (l)   "Project Management Unit" means the project management
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement
(Second Family Health Project) dated July 25, 1991, between the
Borrower and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty five million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 45,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank, in the name of its Central Bank, on terms and
Page  3
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2003, and ending June 1, 2028. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2013, shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Page  4
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                          ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOHCW, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate clinical, administrative, technical and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than nine months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Association shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
Page  5
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                           ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
            (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor; or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that, any event specified in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (ii)
of that Section.
                          ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association the
current treatment protocols for STDs, TB, and HIV related diseases,
for which drugs are to be procured under the Project; and
Page  6
      (b)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association prior to
issuance to prospective bidders, the bidding documents satisfactory
to the Association for the procurement of the first consignment of
drugs under the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Senior Secretary
            Ministry of Finance
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway, Harare
            Republic of Zimbabwe
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINFIN                    MINFIN 22141 ZW
                   Harare                    Zimbabwe
            For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
                         By /s/ Amos Midzi
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Drugs and                36,700,000        100% of foreign
     diagnostics                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                90% of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Medical                   6,000,000        100% of foreign
     equipment and                              expenditures,
     supplies                                   100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Office supplies             220,000        90% of local
     and services                               expenditures
(4)  Unallocated               2,680,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    45,600,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its
efforts to reduce the incidence and impact of STIs in a cost-
effective manner.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Condoms
      Acquisition of condoms to meet the Borrower's total projected
demand of condoms for both disease prevention and contraceptive
Page  8
purposes.
Part B:     STD Program
1.    Support for the National STD Prevention and Control Program
through:
            (i)    development and dissemination of policy
                   guidelines by ZAHEC;
            (ii)   research in priority areas of STD control with a
                   view to developing improved case management;
           (iii)   training of health care providers at all levels
                   in STD prevention, diagnosis, treatment and
                   management;
            (iv)   establishment of integrated STI sentinel
                   surveillance centers, to strengthen data
                   collection in six key sites and in all provinces
                   undertaking serological studies;
            (v)    improved detection and treatment of STDs; and
           (vi)    monitoring and evaluation through regular
                   supervision visits and evaluation of the STD
                   program.
2.    Acquisition of basic diagnostic tests and supplies for
laboratory confirmation of STDs.
3.    Acquisition of pharmaceuticals needed for the treatment of
STDs.
Part C:     Treatment of AIDS-opportunistic Infections
1.    Acquisition of drugs, laboratory equipment and supplies to
ensure prompt and adequate treatment of TB cases.
2.    Acquisition of drugs to treat a host of other HIV
opportunistic diseases.
Part D:     HIV Diagnosis and Supplies
1.    Acquisition of diagnostics for HIV testing for the benefit of
patients with HIV related diseases and other persons seeking to know
their status.
2.    Acquisition of HIV diagnostics and associated supplies for
purposes of blood-testing within the territory of the Borrower to
ensure the safety of the blood supply.
Part E:     Health System Support
      Acquisition of protective supplies associated with the
intensive demands related to STI treatment, including latex gloves,
disposable syringes and needles, and disinfectants, both to support
the formal health system and to facilitate home-based health care.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
Page  9
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed upon with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods under
Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost $250,000 or more.
3.    Goods to be procured under paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall
be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party
inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zimbabwe may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods under Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Goods under Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Small or urgently needed items under Categories (1), (2) and
(3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,300,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Page  10
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    MOHCW shall, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, be
responsible for the overall coordination, monitoring and supervision
of activities under the Project. Within MOHCW, NACP shall monitor
and coordinate day-to-day activities under the Project. To this end,
NACP shall be required, on the basis of data supplied by each of the
implementing agencies of the Project, to prepare semiannual reports
on the progress of the Project, to be furnished by MOHCW to the
Association twice each year, along with six-monthly Project summary
accounts, which shall have been compiled by the Project Management
Unit.
2.    (a)   The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1995, submit to the Association, for its approval, a detailed
proposal for a midterm review of the Project, to be held not later
than June 30, 1996, during which the Borrower and the Association
shall jointly exchange views generally on all matters relating to
the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under this Agreement, having regard to key project
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
(ii) thereafter proceed to implement the proposal in accordance with
the timing and other modalities, as approved by the Association.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to the midterm review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for review a report,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
progress and status of the Project, with particular reference to
matters to be addressed at the midterm review.
      (c)   Following the midterm review, the Borrower undertakes to
act promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall appoint or assign, as the case may be,
suitably qualified and experienced persons in adequate numbers to
manage and operate the computerized stock-control system in GMS.
4.    The Borrower shall, through GMS, periodically monitor the
distribution of drugs procured under the Project and shall, if need
be, take such corrective measures satisfactory to the Association as
may be necessary or appropriate to improve logistics or stock
management, or otherwise to improve such distribution.
5.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for review and
Page  11
comment not later than September 1994, an action plan containing its
strategic options for the operations of GMS. Following review of
such plan by the Association, the Borrower shall implement a plan
satisfactory to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for information
any proposed changes in treatment protocols for TB, STDs, HIV-
related diseases, that may affect the use of drugs to be procured
under the Project.
7.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary, including the
designation of appropriate staff, to develop within MOHCW the
capacity to manage condom procurement, logistics and distribution.
8.    The Borrower shall ensure that MOHCW Guidelines on the
Management of STDs and HIV related conditions are made available to
all concerned health facilities by December 31, 1993, and that all
districts are required to conduct in-service training on the use of
such Guidelines.
9.    The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1993, submit
to the Association a draft Second Medium Term Plan for NACP.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to 1,000,000 dollars to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
Page  12
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  13
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
