Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14889-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
March 6, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =            Uganda Shillings (Ush)
US$1.00                      =            Ush 1000 (November 1995)
Ush 1.00                     =            US$O.001
SDR 1.00                     =            US$1.48649
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSEC    -   Agricultural Secretariat
APC         -   Agricultural Policy Committee
APD         -   Agricultural Planning Department
APRF        -   Agricultural Policy Research Fund
BOU         - Bank of Uganda
CSR         -   Civil Service Reform
EFMP        -   Economic and Financial Management Project
EPRC        -   Economic Policy Research Center
GOU         - Government of Uganda
ICBP        -   Institutional Capacity Building Project
IMF         -   International Monetary Fund
MAAIF    -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MFEP        -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MNRL        -   Ministry of Natural Resources and Land
MOLG        -   Ministry of Local Government
MPS         -   Ministry of Public Service
PEC         -   President's Economic Council
PMC         -   Project Management Committee
RC          -   Resistance Council
LC          -   Local Council
This document is prepared by IDA in collaboration with the Government of Uganda. The IDA team members
consisted of Messrs/Mmes T. Dejene (Sr. Agricultural Economist, Mission Leader) ; P. Ahuja (Financial Analyst);
J. Silverman (Principal Institutional Specialist) J. Makanda.(Accounts and Audit Specialist); V. Ashworth
(Agriculturalist. Consultant); C. Saavedra (Agr. Statistician, Consultant); Mohamed Alin (Financial Analyst,
Consultant); F. Byarugaba (Management Specialist, consultant). GOU Working Groups prepared project report and
core members of the team consisted of Messrs/Mmes R. Tumusiime, F. Sewankambo; G. A. Otim; E. Apali; S.
Bikangaga; J. Magezi-Apuuli; J. B. Semacula and R. Sabiiti. Lead Adviser is Mr. Nat Colletta and peer reviewers are
Gaiv Tata and Ian Knapp. The sector Division Chief is Ms. Sushma Ganguly and the Country Director is Mr. James
Adams.



4--
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND ............................................                                                                                                                                           1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ......................................................1l
B. Country Assistance Strategy .......................................................2
C. Agriculture Sector Assistance Strategy .......................................................2
D. Institutional Capacity Building and Public Sector Reform .......................................................2
2. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ............................................                                                                                                                               5
A. Overview and PerforTnance ........................................................5
B. Policy and Institutional Reforms ........................................................6
C. Strategy for Institutional Development ........................................................8
D. Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned ........................................................8
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement ........................................................9
3. THE PROJECT ...........................................                                                                                                                                         10
A. Project Origin and Concept .......................................................                                                                                                          10
B. Objectives .......................................................                                                                                                                           11
C. Project Description .......................................................                              ..                                                                                 11
1. Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning .......................................................                                                                                      11
2. Management Systems Reform and Training .......................................................                                                                                        15
3. Agricultural Data and Information Systems Strengthening .......................................................                                                                       18
D. Project Cost and Financing .......................................................                                                                                                         19
E. Procurement .......................................................                                                                                                                         20
F. Disbursements .......................................................                                                                                                                     22
G. Special Accounts .......................................................                                                                                                                    24
H. Auditing .......................................................                                                                                                                          25
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................................... 26
A. Overall Organization and Management .......................................................                                                                                                26
B. Detailed Implementation Arrangements .......................................................                                                                                               27
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation .......................................................                                                                                               29



-ii-
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...............................................                                                                31
A. Benefits and Justification .........................................................                                                          3 1
B. Risks .........................................................                                                                               34
6. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION .................................... 36
A. Conditions Met Prior to Negotiations .........................................................                                                 36
B. Assurances Obtained During Negotiations .........................................................                                              36
C. Conditions for Credit Effectiveness .........................................................                                                  37
D.  Conditions of Disbursement .........................................................                                                         37
E. Recommendation .........................................................                                                                       38
TABLES
Table  1: Summary of Project Cost ........................................................                                               20
Table 2:  Procurement .........................................................                                                          21
Table 3: Estimated IDA  Disbursement ........................................................                                            23
Table 4:  IDA  Disbursement Plan ........................................................                                                23
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Letter of Sector Institutional Policy
Annex 2: Organizational Structure
Annex 3: Agricultural Policy Committee
Annex 4: Agricultural Policy Research Fund
Annex 5: Sector Investment Program
Annex 6: District Planning Capacity Building
Annex 7: Result-Oriented Management
Annex 8: Internal Systems Improvement
Annex 9: Training Fund
Annex 10: Agricultural Data and Information Systems
Annex 11: Detailed Project Cost
Annex 12: Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursement
Annex 13: Schedule of Technical Assistance and Studies
Annex 14: Supervision Plan
Annex 15: Project Performance Indicators
Annex 16: Output Indicators
Annex 17: Documents in Project File
MAP: IBRD2488IR



-iii-
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Govermment of Uganda
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (MAAIF), Ministry of Local Government
(MOLG), and Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP).
Beneficiaries:          Sectoral ministries involved in policy forrnulation
and agricultural data collation and analysis, Local
Governments, Government and non-Governmental
Organizations.
Poverty:                Project supports the key elements of GOU's primary
objective of poverty reduction by improving capacity
to address poverty reduction issues with proficiency,
and enhancing the provision of public services.
Amount:                 SDR 12.1 Million, (US$17.9 million
equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:         0.5 percent on the undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:         See para. 3.44
Economic Rate of Return: No ERR calculated, as project benefits are not
readily quantifiable. Nevertheless, the linkage
between project and macroeconomic setting,
alternative project designs, fiscal impact, cost
recovery and cost effectiveness of the project are
analyzed
Map:                    IBRD 24881R
Project Identification No.: UG-PA-37582






-1-
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.1   Since 1987, the Government of Uganda (GOU) has been implementing an economic
rehabilitation and reform program. It has been supported by a large number of donors, including
IDA. Donors have continued to support the removal of the remaining constraints to growth, to
create an environment in which private initiatives can flourish, and the efficiency of the public
sector can be improved. The program is based on prudent fiscal and monetary management, and
reform of the regulatory framework. To achieve macroeconomic stability and external balance,
the Government is pursuing tight fiscal policies and continues to be active in absorbing excess
liquidity from the market. Stability in external balance is also pursued through prudent
macroeconomic exchange rate policies. A competitive and market determined exchange rate is
being maintained, and efforts are being made to reduce dependence on coffee as the main foreign
exchange earner.
1.2   Notable successes have been achieved in reforming and stabilizing the economy, and in
implementing structural reform. Inflation fell to three percent in 1994/95 from a high of over
200 percent in 1988. Price controls on all commodities have been removed, and prices, in
general are determined by market forces. In the financial sector, reform efforts have
concentrated on freeing interest rates, increasing the efficiency of the banking system and
increasing the autonomy of the Bank of Uganda.
1.3   During the initial phase of the reform, a growth rate of 6.6 percent in Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) was attained. In 1993/94, real GDP growth slowed to about 5.1 percent (due to
the sporadic drought) compared to 8.5 percent the previous year. Due to the substantial
improvement in the terms of trade, GDP at market prices grew by about 10 percent in 1994/95.
Overall economic growth during the period 1987 to the present has averaged about 5.8 percent, a
gain of 2.9 percent per annum per capita. Agriculture contributes about 50 percent of GDP,
provides employment for over 80 percent of the labor force and accounts for virtually all
commodity exports. The manufacturing sector includes agro-based industries such as cotton,
sugar, tea, coffee and tobacco, as well as import substitution sectors producing mainly consumer
goods for the domestic market, and contributes well over 5 percent to GDP. The share of the
service sector in GDP has remained at around 35 percent during the past ten years. The non-
monitized economy is estimated at around 30 percent of GDP.
1.4   Reflecting the low international coffee price that prevailed since the collapse of the
international coffee agreement in 1989, overall export performance was weak until the recent
coffee boom. However, it was compensated by the rapid growth in the non-traditional export
crops, such as maize, beans, fish, cut flowers and horticultural products, and private transfers,



-2-
that resulted in an overall balance of payment surplus in 1994/95, and a significant increase in
gross reserves over the previous years. On the other hand, Uganda faces a serious debt service
problem. At the end of December 1994, its debt stock was more than 60 percent of GDP. The
scheduled annual service payments accounted for around 52 percent of export value of goods and
services in 1993/94; and about 24 percent in 1994/95.
B. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.5   The primary objective of the Bank's strategy for Uganda is to support the Government's
strategy for poverty reduction and economic growth. This objective is consistent with the actions
and measures laid out in the FY95-97 Policy Framework Paper agreed between the Government,
IDA and IMF. Stimulating investment and growth in the private sector is the key to employment
creation as the primary means of reducing poverty. IDA also supports the Government's
emphasis on improving the delivery of public services through greater focus and prioritization of
expenditures, and on the use of targeted programs and safety nets to assist the most vulnerable in
society.
1.6  IDA's assistance will be focused on: (a) completing the on-going Government program of
decentralization and civil service reform, (b) strengthening the poverty reduction strategy and
programs of the Government, and (c) supporting agriculture, infrastructure and human resources
development, with special emphasis on rural and gender aspects, poverty reduction and
environmental protection.
C. AGRICULTURE SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.7   The Government's sector development objectives are to stimulate growth to meet the
country's food requirement, generate foreign exchange and improve the living standard of the
rural poor. The Government also intends to regain its market shares in traditional export crops
such as coffee, tea and cotton, and diversify into new export crops, giving priority to
commodities such as sesame, tobacco, hides and skins, spices, and fish.
1.8   At present, IDA supports the Government's objectives and programs in the sector by: (a)
improving the impact and effectiveness of the existing portfolio of development interventions,
(b) preparing and financing new projects that are in line with government priorities, and (c)
undertaking pertinent sector work. IDA's future support to the sector will continue to include
measures that: (a) strengthen institutional capacity in government and the private sector; (b)
support agricultural technology generation and dissemination; (c) address the remaining reform
agenda; (d) support diversification of agricultural exports; (e) facilitate the development of a
market in rural finance, and ( f) address issues affecting natural resources management (land
tenure, lake fisheries, wildlife, forestry) and environmental concerns.
D. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
1.9   The principal elements of the recovery and policy reform program, that started as early as
1981 and continued after the coming to power of the National Resistance Movement, are the



-3.-
rebuilding and strengthening of the institutional structure of the Government. The Government's
economic reform efforts were hindered by institutional structures and operating systems not
suited to the new role of government, and to the country's present and future needs. Within the
civil service, there are staffing and skills constraints, inefficient and cumbersome financial and
operational management systems, low pay and low staff morale, weak management and
organizational problems, poor records and data systems, and inadequate training.
1.10  Initially, the recommendations for alleviating these institutional constraints focused on
providing technical assistance and training. In 1982, UNDP supported a program designed to
strengthen the then Ministry of Planning and Economic Development's capacity to implement
and monitor the Government's recovery program. As an early part of its efforts to assist the
Government, IDA made available US$8.0 million to strengthen the planning capacity of the
Ministries and other agencies under the First Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1077-UG). The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1328-UG), in addition to rehabilitating processing
facilities for export crops and financing of imports of agricultural inputs, supported policy
formulation capacity in the sector. It also supported the establishment of the Agricultural
Secretariat of the Bank of Uganda and financed the Secretariat's Task Forces that formulated
recommendations on agricultural prices, and prepared an agricultural development strategy that
provided the basis for policy reform and served as a framework for government and donor
investment. A Second Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1434-UG), at a cost of US$15.0 million,
was implemented to strengthen the Government's economic decision making, planning, project
preparation and implementation capacity. The Third Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1951 -
UG) was launched (US$23.0 million) in 1989, along with the recovery program, to assist the
Government to implement the agreed adjustment and reform measures. The objective of this
project was to initiate a public sector reform program that addressed key management and
administrative functions, including institutionalization of data collection and analysis in the
Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Uganda, improving the budget process, strengthening the
capacity for financial and economic policy formulation in the Ministry of Finance, and reforming
the Government's procurement process.
1.11  In addition to strengthening institutional capacity, the Government supported divestiture
of largely inefficient public enterprises and addressed major parastatal reform issues. The Local
Governments (Resistance Councils) Statute 1993 created a process of decentralization whereby
functions, powers and responsibilities were transferred from the Central Government to Local
Governments and from higher Local Government to lower Local Government Councils. An on-
going civil servicc reform program is focused on: (a) reduction in the number and size of
ministries, (and thereby a reduction in the size of the civil service), and (b) increasing financial
remuneration for the remaining civil service. This program will redefine the role of government,
streamline government structures, eliminate redundant staff, restructure management systems,
introduce a minimum living wage and create effective incentives structures for improved
performance and service delivery.
1.12  Building on the success of the implementation of various institutional capacity building
and reform programs, the Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP) and the
Institutional Capacity Building Project (ICBP) were designed in the last few years and are now



-4-
under implementation. EFMP is designed to strengthen institutional capacity in key government
agencies, especially in the financial sector, and to implement important elements of the civil
service reform program. ICBP is focused on creating greater local institutional and human
capacity to develop and implement public policy. In the area of Public Administration, the
project will support the implementation of the Civil Service Reform in the Central Government
and assist the government in its decentralization program. It supports improved local delivery of
training in implementation skills in both the public and private sectors.



-5-
2. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. OVERVIEW AND PERFORMANCE
2.1   Agriculture is the mainstay of the Ugandan economy, accounting for 51 percent of GDP
and 90 percent of merchandise exports (1994/95). Eighty-seven percent of the population is
rural and about 80 percent of the employed population is engaged in agriculture. Except for
some sugar and tea grown on large estates, 94 percent of agricultural production, and virtually all
food production, comes from about three million smallholders.
2.2   The country is endowed with some of the best agricultural land in the Region. It has a
favorable climate, with ample rainfall, and little temperature variability. Of the 17 million
hectares of land estimated as arable, slightly more than 5 million hectares are estimated to be
under cultivation. This, on average, is 1.6 hectares of cultivable land per farm family. Of the
total area under cultivation in 1994, 31 percent is under banana, a major staple diet, 27 percent
cereals, 19 percent root crops, and the rest pulses, oil seeds, industrial crops, etc.
2.3   In recent years, agricultural GDP has grown rapidly. It increased from 0.1 percent
average annual growth between 1983/84 and 1986/87 to an average annual growth of 5.6 percent
between 1987/88 and 1989/90. This is a significant improvement, and is mainly due to the
restoration of peace and order in the country. The performance of the sector in subsequent years,
i.e., 1990/91 to 1993/94, slowed to an average growth of 3.5 percent per annum. The average for
this period could have been much lower had it not been for the exceptionally high growth rate of
9.2 percent, attained in 1992/93, due to favorable climatic conditions after a relatively bad year in
1991/92. Growth slowed to about 3.2 percent in 1993/94 because of pockets of drought in the
country, but recovered to about 6 percent in 1994/95.
2.4   Traditional export crops are still important, accounting for 80 percent of total
merchandise exports, with non-traditional export crops contributing 12 percent in 1994/95.
Coffee exports alone accounted for 75 percent of merchandise exports in 1994/95. The increase
in the international coffee price in 1994/95 significantly increased the share of coffee in total and
merchandise exports, and has resulted in a substantial windfall estimated at 6.6 percent of the
GDP. Both the volume and value of agricultural exports improved in the last four years.
2.5   The potential for continued increases in agricultural output and productivity are good, and
could be stepped up by technological improvement. Regional markets for food can be expected
to grow, although intermittently. Uganda's favorable rainfall, fertile soil and location provide it
with an opportunity to supply food cheaply to neighboring countries that are affected by
recurring droughts. Prices for traditional export crops are low, and demand for Uganda's
products in these markets is elastic. With the exception of cotton and tea, most crops grown in
Uganda today, including food crops, are competitive in price and quality, in the international
market. This optimism, however, has to be qualified. Improvements in technology that would
lead to higher production are limited. Much of the growth potential through import substitution
in the dairy, sugar, tobacco subsectors has already been exploited. Most of the previously



-6-
cultivated area, abandoned during the strife, has been re-occupied. New yield enhancing
technologies have to be created, area expansion possibilities explored and high value-added
products introduced and expanded in order to increase the momentum.
B. POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
2.6   Policy Reforms. The Economic Recovery Program and the Structural Adjustment
Program, followed by successive PFPs, have made positive contributions to the rehabilitation
and restructuring of agriculture in Uganda. As a result, the liberalization of foreign exchange
markets and external trade, as well as the privatization of the majority of public-owned
enterprises, the streamlining of the public sector, and the easing of the regulations governing
agricultural business operations, have all created an environment more conducive to encouraging
growth and investment in the sector.
2.7   The sector adjustment program focused on pricing, production and marketing
arrangements, particularly for strategic commodities such as coffee, cotton and tea. Today, all
farm-gate prices are determined by market forces. The Government has relinquished direct
participation in the importation and distribution of agricultural inputs. The monopoly of
parastatals such as the Coffee Marketing Board, Lint Marketing Board and Produce Marketing
Board has been eliminated. To further improve producer incentives, the residual export tax
system was first replaced in 1991 with an advalorem tax system. In 1992, the advalorem and all
other export taxes were abolished.
2.8   Competition was enhanced in the coffee subsector by the government strategy to
liberalize export marketing to allow private sector participation. A major accomplishment in the
tea subsector includes the repossession by the former owners of the estates that hitherto had been
under the Custodian Board. This has led to the rehabilitation of the estates. To restructure the
cotton industry, the Government has opened the cotton subsector to competition. It has passed a
Cotton Development Statute to break the monopoly of the LMB and to allow private sector
participation in cotton exports. A regulatory body for cotton, the Cotton Development
Organization, that will replace LMB, has been established. The implementation of the IDA-
supported Cotton Subsector Development Project will further support reform in the subsector by
creating a viable incentive, institutional and regulatory system. Tobacco production has
increased from 940 tons in 1987 to about 7,000 tons in 1994, surpassing the highest level reached
in 1970. In the food and non-traditional export crops, reform started with the liberalization of
markets, prices and trade in the late 1 980s. The monopoly of parastatals on the marketing of
maize, beans, simsim, soybeans and groundnuts, was gradually eroded. Private traders entered
into the domestic and export business in large numbers. As a result, there has been a steady
increase in export demand for food crops.
2.9   Institutional Reforms. Uganda's effort to promote agricultural development was
hampered by overlapping, uncoordinated and conflicting institutional roles and responsibilities.
Several ministries and agencies were involved with the agriculture sector prior to 1992,
including: Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Ministry of
Cooperatives and Marketing, Ministry of Environment Protection, Ministry of Lands and



-7-
Surveys, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Women Development and Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development.
2.10 The Government recognized the inherent weakness and difficulties that arise from the
proliferation of institutions and, therefore, took steps to improve the situation. The Public
Service Review and Reorganization Committee undertook a study and recommended reduction
in the number of ministries and the civil service. On the basis of its recommendations, the
Ministry of Agriculture was merged with the Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and
formed the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries (Annex 2). The Ministry of
Cooperatives and Marketing became part of the restructured Ministry of Industry and Trade. The
committee also recommended that all research be coordinated under one organization, and
created the National Agricultural Research Organization. The organization is an autonomous
body managed by a Board of Directors, whose chairman is appointed by the Government. Along
with the restructuring, the Government decided to devolve political and administrative power to
the districts and self-accounting Urban Councils. As a result, most functions that were carried
out by the central ministries were decentralized to local governments, including personnel and
finance, under the Local Governments Statute of 1993.
2.11  During the time that institutional proliferation was making coordination of agricultural
policies and programs difficult, the Government created an inter-ministerial body called the
Agricultural Policy Committee (APC). The purpose of this committee was to serve as a high
level policy formulation and coordination body in the agricultural sector reporting directly to the
Presidential Economic Council (PEC). The APC, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MFEP,
drew its members from the Permanent Secretaries of Agricultural ministries and managers of
agricultural agencies. It had an Agricultural Secretariat (AGSEC), recently renamed Agricultural
Policy Committee Secretariat (APSEC), that initially provided technical backstopping and advice
in the areas of pricing and agricultural policy related issues, and over time increased its scope of
work to include cross-sectoral coordination. For administrative reasons, the AGSEC was
attached to the Bank of Uganda (BOU). However, under an ongoing restructuring in the BOU,
the AGSEC was declared non-core, and is now housed under the MFEP. In a recent review, the
APC/APSEC's role and functions are redefined, its structure streamlined, and its relationship
with other agencies agreed with among all concerned (Annex 3).
2.12  In the last few years, new non-governmental organizations emerged and others were
strengthened, changing the institutional landscape in the agriculture sector. The Uganda
Cooperative Alliance (UCA) has assumed a greater role, serving as an apex body for agricultural
cooperatives in the country. The new Cooperative Societies Statute of 1991 paved the way for
the restructuring of primary societies, district unions and apex organizations. Under the Statute,
cooperatives are "private" companies owned by users. UCA is an apex organization that serves
about 1.6 million of the 2.5 million cooperative farmers in the country. The Uganda National
Farmers Association is another non-governmental organization, created in 1992 to bring together
all farmers and farmers' organizations with the objective of promoting their activities and
interests. These institutions are expected to play a critical role in the future agricultural
development of the country.



-8-
C. STRATEGY FOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
2.13 The focus on institutional development and reform in the agriculture sector has resulted
because of a shift from pervasive controls, in which the public sector was directly involved in
production and marketing, to one of a decentralized, facilitative and market-driven approach.
Government focus is now shifting to provision of basic agricultural and rural infrastructure
services. This shift emphasizes the role of market forces and the active participation of the
private sector in marketing and production of agricultural commodities and services.
2.14 The rapidly changing global and domestic economic environment also calls for a new
approach to the way in which the Government does business. The role of the government in the
sector has to be redefined and priorities clearly identified. Financial and management rules and
budget systems, which free-up organizations, work units and individuals to achieve the strategic
goals, need to be formulated. Finally, flexible organizational arrangements which facilitate
performance and support the implementation of priority programs have to be in place.
2.15 The strategic objective of the Government is, therefore, to create an institutional structure
and operational arrangement that is results-oriented, transparent, and flexible. In the agriculture
sector this will be pursued by: (a) strengthening the analytic capability of public agencies with a
view to developing a policy analysis, budgeting, project and program preparation capacity; (b)
changing the legal and regulatory framework to promote an enabling environment for the
expansion of production, trade and investment; and (c) improving the implementation capacity at
the district and lower levels. The proposed project fits into the overall strategy for institutional
development. The objectives of the project, i.e., enhancing analytic and implementation capacity
at the National and district level, improving efficiency and effectiveness of public agencies and
strengthening the information system, are consistent with the overall strategy, and its
components would help to realize the institutional development objectives of the GOU.
D. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.16 IDA has financed several agricultural projects in Uganda. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project, (Cr. 1328), Northern Uganda Rehabilitation Project, (Cr. 2362), and
South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, (Cr. 1869), were designed to rehabilitate
the sector after the devastating civil war. Major national agricultural extension and research
operations are underway (Cr. 2446 and Cr.2424) to ensure the testing, development and
dissemination of technologies to farmers. Reforms in production and marketing of critical
agricultural commodities such as coffee, cotton and non-traditional export crops are also
supported though the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit Project, (Cr. 2190), a hybrid
operation consisting of a sector adjustment and a complementary investment component, and the
Cotton Subsector Development Project (Cr.26090). In almost all cases, project performance has
been adversely affected by inadequate counterpart funding, inadequate salaries and incentives for
staff, weak management and financial systems. The issue of counterpart funding is being
resolved through the prioritization of public expenditures and the salary and incentive issues will
be addressed though the civil service reform process that under implementation by GOU, and
supported by IDA and other donors. Support to line ministries to improve the capacity for policy



-9-
analysis and formulation has been limited to date and, consequently, policy analysis and
formulation remained ad hoc and weak. Support is now being directed to ministries and
agencies who have the mandate and the appropriate institutional set-up to ensure sustainability.
The IDA-supported Technical Assistance Projects in Uganda, Agricultural Sector Management
Project I and II in Kenya (Cr. 1718 and Cr.2445), Agricultural Sector Management Project in
Tanzania (Cr.2537) and other technical assistance interventions in the region have also provided
useful lessons for the design of this project. The review of these and several other institutional
development projects by the Bank's Operation and Evaluation Department shows that the
"process" rather than the blueprint approach is the key for the success of most technical
assistance projects. This approach is better equipped to: cope with uncertainties of the
environment it is applied and enhance flexibility; nurture ownership and build commitment; and
emphasize learning and capacity building. Based on lessons of experience, the process approach
is applied in the design of the proposed project with the aim to adapt objectives to changing
circumstances. Other experiences incorporated in the project design include fostering
government commitment and ownership, harnessing local/domestic capacities and striving for
improved project quality at entry into the portfolio.
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.17  The Bank's assistance strategy for Uganda is to reduce poverty. One of the key elements
of this strategy is to enhance the provision of public services, through appropriate measures
including capacity building, with emphasis on ensuring that the services reach the poor. The
other key element is maximizing labor-intensive economic growth. The proposed project is
aimed at institutional capacity building in the agricultural sector, to address poverty reduction
and growth issues through strengthening the public and private sector. Growth of the economy,
particularly, growth in the agricultural sector, and the reduction of rural poverty would largely
depend on the soundness of policies, strategies and programs that the Government would adapt
in the medium and long-run. It would also depend on the capacity to carry out the policies and
strategies. IDA's support to improve public and private sector capability to formulate strategic
polices and programs would make a significant contribution to achieving the Government's
objectives of growth and poverty reduction.
2.18  IDA's involvement in this regard is essential to address in a systematic manner both the
institutional constraints (weak personnel, financial and asset management, poor information
systems, weak analytical and implementation capacity, etc.) that on-going projects face, as well
as to lay the foundation for future agricultural operations which would require a sound policy and
regulatory framework in order to be implemented effectively. ASMP has strong linkages with
all agricultural sector and institution capacity building operations of the Bank. It would improve
overall agricultural sector policy formulation and implementation capacity, strengthen the
management and administration of projects, assist the Government to move towards sector
investment programming, and strengthen linkages with other sectors.



-10-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND CONCEPT
3.1   The GOU originated the project concept and design, and had full responsibility
for project preparation. In July 1994, the GOU requested IDA's support to strengthen
MAAIF's strategic planning and policy formulation capacity, and for human resource
development in the sector. A project identification mission visited Uganda the same
month and an agreement was reached to work on a project aimed at improving the policy
formulation and strategic planning capacity, improving internal management systems,
and assisting in the upgrading of skills and knowledge in the sector. The GOU set up a
Project Steering Committee (PSC) to oversee project preparation, with the Permanent
Secretary of MAAIF as its Chairman. Membership in the PSC included: Commissioner,
Local Government Department, MOLG; Commissioner, Economic Planning Department
and Commissioner, Statistics Department, MFEP; Commissioner, Administrative
Reform, Ministry of Public Services (MPS); Director, Agricultural Secretariat of APC;
the three MAAIF Directors - Animal Resources, Crop Resources, Agricultural Extension
- and the Commissioner, MAAIF, APD. Four Working Groups were set up for technical
preparation of the project: Sector Planning and Analytic Capacity Building, Human
Resources Development, Internal (MAAIF) Systems Improvement; and Agricultural Data
and Information systems. Sub-groups were formed within the working groups to carry
out distinct tasks, and local and international consultants were recruited to fill skill gaps
identified during project preparation.
3.2   Apart from its capacity building benefits, the participatory approach to project
identification and preparation brought together officials, within and outside MAAIF, who
have a much clearer understanding of issues and constraints faced by the sector. The
participation of decision-makers also ensured adequate coverage of pressing issues and
Ugandan ownership of the project.
3.3   The preparation of the draft project proposal took about six months, and IDA was
invited to pre-appraise the project in April/May 1995. As part of the pre-appraisal
process, a workshop attended by participants from various government agencies and
donors was organized to discuss the Government's project proposal. IDA's pre-appraisal
mission actively participated in the workshop and benefited from the interaction with
participants. After completing the pre-appraisal in Uganda, the team that was responsible
for coordinating project preparation came to Washington to participate in the drafting of
the white cover SAR and to initiate the preparation of the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). The project was appraised in July 1995, jointly with the GOU. The joint mission
consulted all the major stakeholders, including major donors, about the project design and
the activities proposed therein. The heads of agencies who will participate in the
implementation of components or sub-components of the project were asked for their
comments and all of them provided useful inputs to the review process. Finally, the draft



-11-
report was discussed in the APC meeting and in a wrap-up meeting with the Project
Steering Committee.
B. OBJECTIVES
3.4   The proposed Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP) will support the
implementation and enhance the effectiveness of the Government's ongoing civil service
reform and decentralization programs. These programs have the broad objectives of
creating a liberalized enabling economic environment, conducive to promoting the
private sector as the engine of economic growth, and decentralizing to the districts the
responsibility for providing core services and fostering rural development.
3.5   Within this framnework, the three broad objectives of ASMP are: (a) to enhance
analytical capacity for policy formulation and monitoring in the agricultural sector, in
general, and within MAAIF, in particular; (b) to improve the responsiveness, efficiency
and effectiveness of the MAAIF in carrying out its redefined role in agricultural sector
management through reforming management systems and improving internal procedures;
and (c) to strengthen agricultural information systems.
3.6   These objectives would be implemented through three main components: (a)
policy formulation and strategic planning; (b) management systems reform and training;
and (c) agricultural data and information systems strengthening. These components are
described below.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning (US$8.3 mil.)
3.7   This component would have four sub-components: analytical capacity building
focused on APD; an Agricultural Policy Research Fund to foster sector-wide policy
research and analyses; preparation of an agricultural sector investment program (ASIP);
and district-level planning and capacity building.
3.8   Analytical Capacity Building (US$2.8 mil.). This sub-component would aim to
strengthen analytical capacity to formnulate agricultural policy and define strategic
priorities within the agricultural sector in general and the APD in particular. It would
provide selective technical assistance in policy and strategy formulation and analysis,
financial analysis and business management, and production economics and farm
management. Staff skill capacity would be strengthened in parallel through advanced
education fellowships, and short courses in relevant subject matters.
3.9   Capacity building would be further facilitated through a twinning arrangement
with the Makerere-based Economic Policy Research Center (EPRC), an autonomous
institution (supported by the African Capacity Building Foundation) engaged in policy



-12-
related research. This arrangement would allow APD and APSEC staff to participate in
selected research programs with a view to gaining first hand experience.
3.10  Provision has also been made under this component for undertaking relevant
policy-related surveys and studies, in areas such as, cost of production, social accounting
and policy analysis matrices, policy impact evaluations, markets and price analysis,
competitiveness analysis, etc. The activities under this component will not include
technical research. This aspect of research is presently carried out by the National
Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) under an IDA supported national program
(Agricultural Research and Training Project). However, the two sets of research
activities are mutually supporting and would be coordinated through the Agricultural
Policy sub-Committee of the EPRC whose membership would include a representative
from NARO. Procurement of vehicles, computers, office equipment and facility
improvement for enhancing the work environment and improve the operational facilities
available to APD staff, would also be supported under the project.
3.11  The project would also support the APC/APSEC to effectively implement its new
and redefined role and functions after the support under the Cotton Subsector
Development Project comes to a close in 1998. Provision has been made under ASMP to
enable the APC to periodically review strategies and policies of the agricultural sector,
and coordinate and harmonize reform and sector programs. This support would include
training of staff, consultancies for short-term assignments and replacement of vehicles
and equipment.
3.12  Detailed description of the revised role of APC/APSEC is provided in Annex 3.
3.13 Agricultural Policy Research Fund (APRF) (US$1.2 mil.). The aim of the
APRF would be to foster policy-related analytical skills-building and to contribute to a
deepening of understanding of issues among a wide spectrum of agricultural sector
stakeholders. Any qualified public or private sector institution or agency would be
entitled to apply for assistance from the APRF to finance research and analysis which
would enhance local knowledge and skills in agricultural policy formulation. The fund
would be administered through the EPRC under an agreement which would, inter alia,
specify the procedures and the criteria to be used for approving grants.
3.14  A key result of the component would be to: (a) identify opportunities, key areas of
growth, benefits, and risks related to implementing sector policies, programs and
projects; (b) amend regulatory, infrastructural and institutional arrangements which affect
the performance of the sector; and (c) provide decision support and facilitation services to
the Ministry and the Government, as policies and legislation affecting the sector are
developed and implemented.
3.15  As part of the process of initiating the Fund, EPRC would convene a National
Agricultural Policy Forum every year. The aim of the forum would be two-fold: first to
build consensus on what are the current priority policy and strategic issues; and second,
to promote debate and interest among a wide range of agricultural stakeholders. All



-13-
interested stakeholders would be invited to participate, and raise any agricultural policy
related issue which they considered important. EPRC would synthesize the views from
the Forum and present its recommendations to the Agricultural Policy Sub-committee of
the Board of Management of EPRC, and seek approval on the broad priority areas and
topics for research and analysis. The Board of Management, in close collaboration with
MAAIF officials, would also ensure that the findings and recommendations of the
research and analysis would be translated into actions by the decision-makers as needed.
3.16  Within the framework of the key research areas and the priority issues approved
by the sub-committee, proposals for research would be divided into two groups
depending on their suitability for assistance from the proposed two APRF windows -- the
competitive research window and the capacity building window. As the name suggests,
the first or the competitive window, would be used to fund comparatively elaborate and
technically demanding policy related research on a competitive basis. EPRC would, by
way of public advertisement, invite qualified Ugandan institutions, consulting firms or
individuals to bid for research on a priority agricultural policy related topic or issue. The
analysis would be elaborate, and would take longer to complete. Accordingly, an
applicant's experience and qualifications would be of a high standard. The research,
under this category would qualify for a large grant from the APRF.
3.17 The second window, the capacity building window, would be used to finance less
elaborate analyses requiring lower level input and time. A much wider participation
would be encouraged. Any experienced and qualified individual or institution
(universities, colleges, institutes, government agencies, etc.) could make a proposal to
EPRC for assistance from the fund. Once a proposal has been broadly accepted, EPRC
would, if necessary, provide guidance to the applicant(s) on how to carry out the work.
Topics to be analyzed would be within the broad bounds of priority areas agreed upon at
the annual agricultural policy forum.
3.18  Detailed description of the operation of the APRF is provided in Annex 4.
3.19  Sector Investment Program (US$1.5 mil.). To facilitate GOU's desire to
replace the present discrete project approach with coherent national programs,
development as the vehicle for promoting investment and growth in agriculture, a
nationwide medium-term agricultural sector investment program (ASIP) would be
prepared. It is envisaged that ASIP preparation would take about two years. The
participation of all major stakeholders (private and state) and donors would be a critical
feature of the process. The ASIP preparation would be carried out in two phases. The
first phase would define sector priorities and strategies and the roles of the various
stakeholders in implementing these strategies. An ASIP Task Force comprised of
representatives from MAAIF, MFEP, and other concerned Ministries and agencies
including districts, universities, NGOs and private sector institutions would be formed.
The task force would be led by a qualified and senior Government appointed manager.
Working groups, each comprising of about four members, would review the public versus
private sector role and strategic objectives. These could also include: the remaining



-14-
policy reform agenda; the role of district administrations in agricultural development; the
regulatory role of public institutions in agriculture to ensure efficient provision of public
goods and sustainable natural resource development; and food security as a national goal;
rationalization of roles and functions within the agricultural sector in general and MAAIF
in particular. Their findings and recommendations would be incorporated in an
Agricultural Sector Strategy Paper which would be produced within six months of
project effectiveness, and would be presented to the Agricultural Policy Committee
(APC), and the Cabinet or the Presidential Economic Council (PEC) for review and
approval.
3.20  Once the strategic results have been endorsed, through the Agricultural Sector
Strategy Paper, the second phase would begin with the creation of subsectoral working
groups which would identify key areas and prepare a number of high priority subsector
investment programs. The main subsectors could include: agricultural services, including
agricultural research and extension; livestock production and animal health; agribusiness,
processing and marketing; rural infrastructure; food and export crop production and
marketing; agricultural education and training; and agricultural institutions' development
including farmers' associations and cooperatives. These proposals would provide the
basis for ASIP, and would be finalized within two years of credit effectiveness. Project
support for the ASIP preparation would include provision of transport facilities,
secretarial services, limited office equipment, local and limited foreign technical
assistance, and sundry task force related expenses.
3.21   Detailed description of the ASIP is provided in Annex 5.
3.22  District Planning and Implementation Capacity (US$2.8 mil.). Districts
would be assisted in strengthening their strategic planning and implementation capacity
through: (a) training of individuals and groups in districts and below district levels in
strategic planning, (b) preparing guidelines for agricultural development plan preparation,
and (c) supporting plan formulation, that would feed into the overall agricultural sector
strategy and ASIP.
3.23 The sub-component would be implemented in two phases. The first phase would
be the Guidelines Preparation for District Agricultural Plans. Representative districts
would be selected and would be used for developing the guidelines. The first phase
would be completed by credit effectiveness. The second would be the actual plan
preparation for all the districts, based on the guidelines. The plan preparation would be
carried out in two years, covering 20 districts the first year and the remaining 19 districts
the second year. Therefore, part of the district agricultural plan preparation would be
completed within one year, and the rest within two years after credit effectiveness. A key
objective of the proposed planning process would be to progressively build up a broad
data base on district and community resources, production constraints and potential.
3.24  Successful introduction of strategic planning at the district level and below would
depend largely on the scope, relevance and quality of training, and the project would



-15-
provide financing for this purpose. Broad areas of training could include participatory
planning, identifying needs and opportunities, defining constraints, appropriate resource
allocation, inter-sectoral linkages, gender sensitization, etc. Training recipients would
include farmers, members of Local Councils (LCs), staff of the District Production and
Marketing Departments and other stakeholders such as NGOs that provide support to the
agricultural sector. The project would support the preparation of plan guidelines, and
plan preparations. Districts would have access to resources for procuring the services of
technical experts for this purpose, and the APD would play a central role in providing
technical backstopping.
3.25  A detailed description of the District Planning and Implementation sub-
component is provided in Annex 6.
2. Management Systems Reform and Training (US$5.9 mil)
3.26  Management reform and training would aim to enhance the performance of the
key public institutions in the agriculture sector, by: (a) improving internal systems; (b)
reforming the management system, and (c) supporting demand-driven training. The
reforms would include: the design and implementation of internal operating systems and
procedures; and second, preparation and introduction of a result-oriented management
(ROM) system, while a training fimd would be established to finance demand-driven
training under the project.
3.27  Internal Systems Reform (US$1.7 mil). As an integral part of the preparation
for ROM introduction and ASIP implementation, new internal systems and procedures
would be designed and introduced. Managing MAAIF's transition to a new role calls for
reforming the internal administrative and management systems, including: (a) accounting
and financial management; (b) procurement, maintenance and asset management; (c)
internal audit; (d) personnel management; and (e) information systems. The respective
improved systems would be designed through an Internal Administration and
Management Systems Improvement Study, that comprises integrated studies in financial
management and accounting; procurement; asset maintenance and management
(including vehicle management); computerization; and human resource development in
areas relevant to the activities covered under the study. The studies would, inter alia,
critically examine the new structures of MAAIF and the information needs for various
users, and design appropriate systems to meet these needs. In each case, the studies
would develop a time-bound implementation plan for the recommended systems, and
would be designed to be compatible with the principles and needs of ROM and ASIP.
The studies would be completed within six months of credit effectiveness, and
implementation of the study's recommendations within one year of completion of the
study.
3.28  As part of the internal systems reform it is proposed to introduce specialized
management units for financial management, procurement and maintenance, personnel
management and internal audits. Through a large number of projects, MAAIF receives



-16-
significant investment assistance from donors which are currently accounted for outside
the Government system. The accounting and financial management and procurement
systems, which have proliferated under various donor-financed interventions, would be
rationalized. This would be achieved through the creation of a Financial Management
Unit and a Procurement and Maintenance Unit to manage all accounting, procurement
and asset management. The project would provide support for the recruitment of a local
Financial Adviser and a Procurement Specialist charged with operationalizing the new
system, setting procedures, and strengthening capacity. Staff training programs on
accounting and donor procurement procedures would be supported under the project.
Project support would also include logistic improvement through computers and other
office technology to be identified under the studies. In addition to government and donor
procurement functions, the procurement specialist would implement an asset management
and maintenance systems. By December 1996, the units needed to implement the internal
system improvement component would be established and staffed, and a unified financial
and procurement system would be fully operational.
3.29  The project would also support: (a) the recruitment of an internal auditor to set up
the internal audit, recruit and train support staff, and design the appropriate internal audit
procedures; and (b) the requisite office technology for this function. The internal auditor
would work closely with the MFEP responsible for the internal audit under the EFMP.
Support for personnel management would complement the ODA support to MPS for the
strengthening of personnel records management. Building on the pilot program carried
out in the Ministry of Trade and Industries, the project would support the piloting of the
records management system in the MAAIF personnel unit and the acquisition of the
appropriate computer hardware and software. MAAIF currently lacks a central library
and documentation center to serve as a repository of both technical and other relevant
sector information. A central library and documentation center to serve the needs of all
MAAIF directorates, departments, districts and other stakeholders would be established
under ASMP. Support would include appropriate library equipment and furniture, an
initial stock of reference and technical books and librarian training. The library would be
operational within two years of project effectiveness.
3.30 A detailed description of the Internal Systems Improvement component is
provided in Annex 7.
3.31  Management Reform(US$O.8 mil). The future adoption of ROM throughout the
civil service is a key feature of the on-going CSR in Uganda. Under the ICBP, it is
planned to introduce ROM into the Local Governments and GOU's budgeting procedures
by FY1996/97. The initial preparation for ROM adoption in a number of priority
Ministries, including MAAIF, would be done under the ICBP. Under ASMP, provision
would be made for the detailed preparation for, and transition to, ROM within MAAIF.
It would be done in close cooperation with MPS and MFEP. The introduction of ROM
would maximize the effect of CSR and facilitate a fundamental change in the institutional
work culture. The detailed preparation and implementation of ROM would commence
with in one year of project effectiveness.



-17-
3.32  Until the full introduction of ROM, the project would support APD to introduce
improved management systems. This would include completion of ar. annual work
agreement, at the beginning of each fiscal year, with MAAIF Departments and other
agencies who seek its services. The agreement would, inter alia, specify the principal
assignments to be undertaken by APD, expected output or service, and completion time.
APD would charge fees for the services rendered to MAAIF Departments/other agencies.
Likewise, the other MAAIF Departments would also be encouraged to do the same with
the aim of introducing a Ministry-wide cost recovery mechanism. This mechanism
would ensure that public services are demand-driven. Assurances that these practices
would be adopted, were obtained during negotiations (see para. 6 2a).
3.33  A detailed description of the Management Reform through result-oriented
management systems is provided in Annex 6.
3.34  Training Fund(US$3.6 mil) The project would introduce demand-driven
training in the sector by placing the requisite fund in the hands of institutions needing the
training. The training to be supported under this component would be targeted to meet
Government and other public sector demands. It would focus on middle and high level
staff involved in policy analysis and formulation, strategic planning, agricultural
information generation and dissemination throughout the sector. It would attempt to meet
training demands that are not met through existing IDA and other donor-funded
programs, and would not cover training of farmers or field extension workers, etc. The
latter is supported under the on-going Agricultural Extension Project. Initially, a needs
assessment study would be carried out to identify the gaps in technical, implementation
and management skills of senior and middle grade staff of MAAIF, and staff of other
institutions participating in the implementation of the project. The study would identify
skill gaps; develop a set of training modules that are appropriate to fill the gaps identified;
establish the detailed criteria and pre-requisites for evaluating and approving training
requests/proposals, and recommend the appropriate allocation of funds. In addition to the
skills enhancement scheme in-country, long-term and short-term overseas training needs
would be identified. The recommendations of this exercise would be used to develop a
comprehensive training plan, which subsequently would be used to develop annual
training plans by the Department of Training and Information (DTI). The needs
assessment study would be completed within six months of project effectiveness, and
implementation of the recommendations and the proposed training modules would
commence immediately after the completion of the study (see para. 6.2e).
3.35  A key element of the training component would be the skills enhancement
scheme. The objective of this scheme would be to provide work-related, and
comparatively low-cost training, and to act as a change agent for promoting improved
productivity and efficiency. It would have in-service training modules, that would be
defined by the needs assessment study, and an on-the-job training program that would
complement the in-service training. Skills acquired through in-service training or other
training opportunities are quickly lost if not applied in day-to-day work. On-the-job
training would, therefore, form an integral part of the in-service training, and would



-18-
enable trainees to apply the skills acquired and to work on selected and priority issues and
problems.
3.36  Detailed description of the Training Fund component is provided in Annex 9.
3. Agricultural Data and Information Systems Strengthening (ADIS)(US$3.6 mil)
3.37  The broad objective of the ADIS component would be to strengthen the country's
agricultural, livestock and fisheries data base. Priority areas for support would aim at
improving the national and district capacity to produce reliable agricultural information
and data. The four main activities would be: (a) the establishment of a Primary
Agricultural Data Base (PADB) at the national, district and community level; (b) the
design and implementation of the Annual Agriculture Sample Surveys (AASS); (c) the
preparation for a National Sample Census of Agriculture and Livestock (NCSAL), and
(d) the design and implementation of the Integrated Fisheries Surveys (IFS).
3.38  Strengthening the primary agricultural data base would include a country-wide
enumeration of a few key agricultural variables (tentatively 10 to 15, most of them
concerning crops and livestock), using the District RC's as enumerators. Work on
primary agricultural data base would commence by project effectiveness, and would be
completed within one year of project effectiveness. The design and implementation of
the annual agricultural sample surveys would focus on crops and livestock to provide
updated data for planning and for detecting trends and changes in the main variables.
Except in the first year of the project, when the primary agricultural data base is
compiled, the annual survey would be conducted every year. Preparation for the
National Sample Census ofAgriculture and Livestock would be completed under the
project. The sample design, data tabulation plan, questionnaire design and data editing
specifications would commence by the year 2000. The computer programs for all the
data processing phases would also be developed, tested and documented by 2001 in
preparation for the national sample census in the year 2002.
3.39 The design and implementation of the Integrated Fishery Surveys would aim to
enhance the MAAIF's capacity to plan and manage surveys that provide reliable
information about the fishing activity, and to undertake continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the fishery resources. The fishery surveys would consist of four modules:
(a) catch assessment survey, a monthly sample survey aiming to provide reliable
estimates of the weight and value of the fish-catch landed, by species, at both the district
and national level; (b) frame survey, to be conducted every two year to provide
information about fishing factors (number and location of fishing communities and fish
landings, number and type of fishing boats, fishing gear, etc.) for all the water bodies
(except Lake Victoria, which will be funded under the GEF/IDA supported Lake Victoria
Environmental Management Project); (c) socio-economic survey, to be conducted every
two years to provide reliable information about the fishing communities as well as
technical and economic data about post harvest fish handling, transportation, marketing,
consumption and distribution at the national level; and (d) an aqua-culture survey, that



-19-
would be carried out every two years to produce basic information about the incipient fish
farming industry.
3.40  Short-term local and external technical assistance in survey design and data
processing, as well as long and short-term training in sampling and survey methods
would be funded under the project. Adequate logistical support (vehicles, data processing
facilities and sundry equipment) would also be provided for the districts, MAAIF and the
Statistics Department of MFEP.
3.41  A key issue with regard to the agricultural data and statistics is the sustainability
of the process. In the past, considerable donor assistance and government resources have
been allocated for agricultural statistics. Systems and methodology have been designed
and established only to fall into disarray once donor support ended. Under the proposed
project, a special study would be completed by mid-term review which would examine
the issue of sustainability of agricultural data collection, analysis and publication, and
agreement would be reached with GOU on setting up a sustainable system.
3.42  A detailed description of the Agricultural Data and Information Systems
Strengthening component is provided in Annex 10.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.43  The project costs have been estimated at roughly US$19.9 million including
physical and price contingencies. Base cost estimates are US$17.8 million. The foreign
exchange component of the project is estimated at 54 percent of the total cost. Price
contingencies are estimated at US$1.2 million, 7 percent of the base cost, and assume
domestic inflation of 5 percent in 1996 and thereafter, and foreign inflation (Value Index
of Manufactured Exports) of 3.5 percent. An exchange rate of US$ 1=950 Ushs. up to
negotiations and US$1=1000 Ush. for the project life has been used. It is assumed that
the exchange rates will vary during the period to adjust for the difference between local
and foreign inflation. Detailed cost tables are provided in Annex 11.
3.44 The proposed IDA credit of US$17.9 million equivalent will finance 90 percent of
the project costs net of taxes and duties over a five year period. The local contribution
made by Government would be for an estimated amount of US$2.0 million, or 10 percent
of project cost.



-20-
3.45  A summary of the estimated costs is presented in the following table:
Table 1: Summary of Project Costs (in US$ million)
Components                              Local      Foreign    Total    Foreign ()
A. Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning    4,118.6   4,173.1    8,291.7  50
B. Management Systems Reform and Training   2,283.1    3,590.8    5,873.8  61
C. Agricultural Data and Infornation System  1,738.8    1,876.5    3,615.3  52
Total Baseline Costs              8,140.4   9,640.4   17,780.8      54
Physical Contingencies             407.3      483.4     890.6        54
Price Contingencies                571.8      613.8    1,185.6      52
TOTAL COSTS                          9,119.5   10,737.5  19,857.1       54
E. PROCUREMENT
3.46 Procurement of all goods and works financed by the Bank would be in accordance
with the current procurement guidelines, i.e. Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January, 1995. Likewise, the hiring of consultants would be carried out
in accordance with Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by T'he
World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981. The World Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods, Works and Consulting Contracts would be used. In order to
ensure expeditious action on procurement, draft Bidding Documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB), Letters of Invitation
packages (including Terms of Reference) for all major consultancies and the annual
Procurement Plan for the first year's program would be ready by project launch.
3.47  The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed procurement procedures
are summarized in Table 2 below. About 31 percent of total project cost is allocated for
technical assistance and studies; some 28 percent of total costs relate to training, ninety
percent of which would be in-country. The provision for vehicles, computers, office
equipment and materials accounts for another 19 percent. Minor civil works and
refurbishment of facilities would add up to less than one percent, and incremental
operating costs would account for the balance of some 22 percent.



-21-
Table 2: Procurement (US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Item                 ICB       NCB    Other        Total
Civil Works                  -         89.5                 89.5
(88.1)              (88.1)
Goods                         3,130.0   101.0     14.5      3,245.5
(3,100.7)  (94.9)    (12.3)   (3,207.9)
Material Production (teaching                    364.9      364.9
materials, publications, manuals)                (226.8)    (226.8)
Consultancy Services and Studies  -              6,529.1    6,529.1
(6,210.7)  (6,210.7)
Training                                         5,169.9    5,169.9
(5,087.4)  (5,087.4)
Incremental Operating Costs  -                   4,458.3    4,458.3
(3,076.8)  (3,076.8)
3,130.0   190.5    16,536.6   19,857.1
TOTAL                   (3,100.7)  (183.0)   (14,614.1)  (17,897.8)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
3.48 Procurement Methods. Goods & Works: Vehicles, Computers & Office
Equipment (US$ 3.0 million); Civil Works (US$0.9 million). The procurement of
vehicles, computers and office equipment would be grouped, wherever possible and cost
effective, into packages of at least US$ 100,000 and awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Contracts for
goods which cannot be grouped as above, and are estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000
but more than US$30,000, would be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
For goods, the aggregate amounts procured through NCB would be about US$ 100,000.
Goods (items or packages of items), including materials production services (production
of manuals, questionnaires, training materials and publications) estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 250,000, could be procured
through international/national Shopping.
3.49 Under the project, provision has been made for carrying out only minor civil
works relating to refurbishment of office facilities of the MAAIF APD. The civil works
would primarily be procured through NCB, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
IDA.
3.50  Technical Assistance, Studies and Surveys (JS$ 6.5 million) and Training (JS$
5.2 million). The TA required under the project would be comprised of consultancy



-22-
services for which proposals would be invited from local and international experts, firms
and joint ventures, as appropriate. The development of local consulting capabilities would
be encouraged under this project, in accordance with IDA's guidelines, through the use of
local experts outside the Civil Services establishment; furthermore, it is envisaged that
primarily short-term international TA would be recruited. Detailed TORs for the local
and international consultants are provided in the Project Implementation Plan describing
each of the components. There would be five major packages of technical assistance/
consultancy services, required to undertake the following assignments: (a) Internal
Administration and Management Systems Improvement Study -- comprising integrated
studies in the areas of ROM, computer master plan design, financial systems
strengthening, procurement and assets management, including vehicle fleet management
improvement, as well as personnel management reform; and, implementation of
improved internal systems on the basis of the recommendations of this study; (b) carrying
out of a Baseline Survey prior to effectiveness and Impact Evaluation Studies at mid-term
and within six months of the credit closing date; (c) undertaking a Training Needs
Assessment; (d) formulating Guidelines for the Preparation of District Agricultural
Development Plans; and (e) Agricultural Statistics and Information Systems
Sustainability Study. A procurement timetable for the TA packages identified above is
provided in Annex 13. Qualified Ugandans will also be selected through a competitive
process to undertake specific (project and ministry-wide) administrative functions, i.e.,
Training Officer, Procurement Specialist, Financial Advisor, Internal Auditor, and ASIP
Manager.
3.51   Procurement Review. All contracts for goods and works procured under ICB
and the first three contracts awarded following NCB procedures would be subject to IDA
prior review procedures; all other contracts would be subject to IDA post-review
procedures. All consultancy contracts with firms, valued at the equivalent of
US$ 100,000 or more would be subject to IDA prior review procedures; consulting
contracts with individuals would be subject to prior review over US$50,000.
Additionally, the first three consulting contracts below either of these thresholds would
also be subject to prior review procedures. Regardless of contract value, prior review
procedures would also apply to all Terms of Reference, single source contracts, contract
extensions or amendments, raising the total value of the revised contracts above the prior
review thresholds, and any critical assignments.
3.52  All post review contracts for goods, works and consultants would be subject to a
random sample review of one in five during supervision missions. GOU would also
promptly report on contract awards and furnish to IDA semi-annual procurement
plans/progress reports furnishing updated information on bidding packages and contracts.
F. DISBURSEMENTS
3.53  The project would be implemented in five years. The schedule of annual and
cumulative disbursements over the project's life is given in Table 3 below, and a detailed
schedule is provided in Annex 12.



-23-
Table 3: Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year       1996/97        1997/98       1998/99       1999/2000      2000/01
Annual                2,821.9        5,242.9       3,940.2        3, 166.5      2,726.3
Cumulative            2,821.9        8,064.8       12,005.0      15,171.5       17,897.8
3.54   Under the project, the proceeds would be advanced to the districts on a quarterly
basis based on the annual District Action Plans, which would produce the funding
requirement for each district. Each year, the Local Councils and MAAIF would agree
and approve the annual action plans and the annual funding requirements for each district
prepared by the respective District Production Committee and the District Production
Department. To ensure that the advanced fumds are used only for the intended purposes,
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation arrangements will be put in place under the
MAAIF Financial Management Unit.
Table 4: IDA Disbursements Plan (US$ '000)
Category               c             Amount of Credit  [ Percent of Expenditures to be financed
1. Civil Works                            82.4                      90 percent
2. Goods                                 3,010.1         100 percent foreign; 90 percent local
3. Consultancies (Studies, TA, APRF)     5,515.0                    100 percent
4. Training, Workshops, Seminars         4,790.2                    100 percent
5. Material Production (publications,     216.0                     50 percent
teaching materials, manuals,
questionnaires)
6. Incremental Operating Costs (fuel,    2,830.3        80 percent for first two years (PY1&2);
vehicle maintenance, etc.)                              65 percent for the next two years (PY3
&4); 45 percent thereafter.
7. Refund PPF Advance (1)                 300.0                     Amount due
8. Refund PPF Advance (11)                300.0                    Amount Due
9. Unallocated                           853.89
TOTAL                                    17,897.8                .__



-24-
G. SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
3.55  Administration of Project Funds. Smooth project implementation would be
facilitated through the opening of the following accounts, to allow the effective flow and
management of funds for financing project operations:
(a)   MAAIF would establish two Special Accounts in US Dollars in a
commercial Bank in Kampala, on termns and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
initial deposit into one of the Special Accounts would be of US$1,000,000, to
cover project related expenditures for about three months; this principal Special
Account would support all project activities designed to develop policy
formulation capacity within MAA4IF, as well as other components implemented at
the center by other agencies. A second Special Account of US$500,000, which
would support project activities designed to strengthen agricultural sector
planning in the districts, would also be set up in the same commercial bank in
Kampala. MAAIF would be free to decentralize funds from this central Special
Account to the various districts based on the funding needs identified for each
such district in the annual District Action Plan. Operation of both Special
Accounts would follow IDA procedures and the accounts would be replenished on
the basis of (regular) quarterly withdrawal applications (with appropriate
supporting documentation), from MAAIF accounting for the aggregate monthly
expenditures from the two Special Accounts. Disbursements of IDA funds would
be made for all eligible expenditures (excluding taxes and duties) under the
project, against submission of full standard documentation to IDA, except as
outlined hereunder. Reimbursement of eligible expenditures in either foreign or
local currencies for: (a) contracts valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent for
goods or works or contracts with consultancy firms, (b) payments of less than
US$50,000 for consultancy contracts with individuals, (c) all local training under
US$25,000 equivalent, and all eligible incremental operating costs under
US$25,000 equivalent, would be documented through certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). All underlying procurement and other documentation
related to such SOE disbursements would be retained at MAAIF headquarters,
and made available for Special Account sample post-review (as described above
in para. 4.45) by IDA supervision missions and examination by auditors, as
required.
(b)   Each district would open a separate bank account into which an advance
would be transferred from the IDA central accounts set up to assist the districts.
Funds when so transferred to districts may be combined with GOU funds. The
MAAIF would be responsible for submitting regular replenishmnent applications
with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures under the annual plan.
Disbursements would be made against simplified statement of expenditures which
would show the summary of expenditures by categories, for the various districts.
The MAAIF would follow up regularly with each implementation unit to ensure
that their statements of expenditures are submitted within the three months period.



-25-
Further advances would be withheld from the Central Special Account to those
districts that have failed to provide a full accounting for the previously granted
quarterly advance, until such accounting has been completed.
H. AUDITING
3.56  MAAIF would maintain accounts and records for project activities, including
SOEs and Special Accounts, in accordance with sound accounting practices. The
Government would have the records and accounts of the project audited for each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and would submit the audit reports to
IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year, with a separate opinion by the
auditors on SOEs. Similarly, the MAAIF would have its accounts and those accounts of
the districts, including SOEs, audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and submit audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every
fiscal year, with a separate opinion by the auditors on the SOEs. At negotiations,
assurances would be obtained from Government, that records and accounts of the project,
including those for the Special Account and SOEs, audited for each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that it would submit the audit reports to IDA
within six months of the close of the financial year, with a separate opinion by the
auditors on the SOEs. Similarly, MAAIF would have its accounts and those accounts of
the districts, including SOEs, audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year with a separate
opinion by the auditors on SOEs.



-26-
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. OVERALL ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1   Project Steering Committee (PSC). The proposed project would be implemented over
five years, using existing organizational and management structures. Project preparation was
guided by the inter-agency Project Steering Committee as described in Section 3, and the same
committee would continue to guide overall implementation including policy guidance and
resource allocation, implementation monitoring, and resolution of major implementation issues.
The PSC would meet once every three month during the first two years of the project and semi-
annually, thereafter.
4.2   Project Management Committee (PMC). At the operational level, a PMC would
advise the PSC on technical and implementation issues as they arise. It would be chaired by the
Head, Agricultural Planning Department of MAAIF, and would include all the commissioners,
section heads and chairpersons of work groups and task forces responsible for implementing the
various components and subcomponents of the project. The PMC would provide technical
guidance and leadership to all principals involved in project implementation. During the first
two project years, the PMC would meet monthly, thereafter meeting on a quarterly basis. Both
the PSC and the PMC would be set up by the GOU not later than thirty days after project
effectiveness (see para. 6.2i).
4.3   Project Manager (PM). The Head of the Agricultural Planning Department of MAAIF
would be the Project Manager. He would be responsible for the monitoring of the project
including overseeing accounting, procurement, disbursement and the overall status of
implementation. The PM would also prepare quarterly progress reports for the PMC. The
reports would focus on the status of key implementation indicators included in Annexes 15 and
16, and would also include the project implementation plan for the following quarter and a brief
note on key implementation issues. The Head of the APD, who would also be the PM, would
have qualifications acceptable to IDA
4.4   The PM would be assisted by the Deputy Head of APD in the day-to-day administration
of the project. Until the restructuring of MAAIF's financial and procurement management
systems, and the creation of appropriate structures for its implementation, the PM would be
assisted by the Financial Advisor and Procurement Specialist, who will be recruited for the
internal systems improvement component (para. 3.28 and 3.29). The PM and his Deputy would
have an administrative assistant who would handle administrative matters. A District Liaison
desk would be established within MAAIF APD to follow up and coordinate district level project
activities.



-27-
B. DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.5   Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning. The MAAIF Agricultural Planning
Department would be primarily responsible for implementing the Analytic Capability Building
component. In conjunction with other Directorates of MAAIF, it would assume the
responsibility of policy analysis , strategic planning, project preparation, socio-economic surveys
and studies. It would complete a three-year technical assistance twinning agreement with EPRC
which, inter alia, would define the total number of staff months of TA to be provided by EPRC
for enhancing the policy formulation and strategic planning capacity of APD, and was brought
for IDA's review and comments during negotiations (see para. 6.1b). The agreement would be
finalized thirty days after project effectiveness (see para 6.2h). Currently, APD has several staff
post vacancies. To enable it to play its proper role in policy formulation and to handle the
increased work load under the project, MAAIF would fill all vacancies, and new positions that
could be created as a result of restructuring of the Department, with adequately qualified staff
prior to credit effectiveness (see para. 6. 4b).
4.6   The preparation of the guidelines for District Agricultural Plans would be carried out by a
team from MAAIF, MOFEP, MOLG, local government representatives under a TOR satisfactory
to GOU and to IDA. Work on guidelines preparation would be completed thirty days after
project effectiveness. Plan preparations for the districts would be completed by the second year
of the project. Each district would be responsible for the preparation of a district plan and could
be assisted by local consultants. Assurances that guidelines preparation would be completed
thirty days after project effectiveness, and the preparation of the plans by the second year of the
project, was obtained during negotiations (see para. 6.2c).
4.7   The preparation of ASIP would be the responsibility of MAAIF. The PSC would
coordinate with, and seek the support of, the APC in the preparation of the program. It would
also seek guidance on policy matters and procedures. The PSC would get the clearance of the
APC at various stages of preparation. MAAIF, in consultation with the APC, would appoint a
senior official, whose qualifications and experience and TOR would be satisfactory to GOU and
IDA, to serve as the ASIP Manager, thirty days after project effectiveness. The ASIP task force
and the working groups would be established within one month of the manager's appointment.
The ASIP manager would be responsible for the detailed preparation of the task force and
working groups plans and operational guidelines. The Agricultural Sector Strategy Paper would
be completed in eight months after the appointment of the manager. The preparation of the
sector investment program would be completed within 14 months of the Government's approval
of the sector strategy paper. Assurances that the ASIP preparation, organization, management
and timing would be implemented, as outlined above andprovided in Annex 5, was obtained
during negotiations (para. 6.2b).
4.8   The administration of the APRF would be carried out by the EPRC on the basis of a
contractual agreement with MAAIF, and satisfactory to GOU and to IDA. A special
Agricultural Economics Policy Research sub-Committee of the EPRC Board of Management
would oversee its implementation. A draft of the agreement between MAAIF and EPRC
outlining the administration of the APRF, the criteria to be used for evaluating research



-28-
proposals, and the estimated cost of administration by EPRC, was brought to negotiations for
IDA's review (see para. 6.1b). A joint EPRC-MAAIF agreement, satisfactory to GOU and to
IDA, would be finalized thirty days after project effectiveness (see para. 6.2h). The preparation
and submission of a model Grant Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, to be entered between EPRC
and researchers would be condition of disbursement for the APRF (see para. 6.5b).
4.9   Management Systems Reform and Training. The Permanent Secretary of MAAIF,
assisted by the Under Secretary for Finance and Administration (USFA) and the Commissioner
APD, would oversee the implementation of the Management Reform and Internal Systems
Improvement component. He would set up a Task Force that would ensure the initiation of the
ROM process, and its introduction and implementation. The USFA, who would chair the Task
Force, would be responsible for organizing the recruitment of a ROM consultant, and
coordination of activities of MAAIF with ROM operations that are planned and implemented by
the MPS under the ICBP. The USFA would also take the lead in the implementation of the
internal systems and procedures improvement component. Qualified local consultants in the area
of finance, procurement and audit would be recruited prior to credit effectiveness to participate in
the studies, and to put in place the new systems and procedures. The USFA would ensure that
asset management, particularly, vehicle management, and computerization studies would be
carried out in conjunction with the internal systems studies, and that the central library has been
established as proposed in the project. Assurances that the local procurement, finance and audit
consultants would be recruited thirty days after project effectiveness under TORs satisfactory to
GOU and IDA, was obtained during negotiations (see para. 6.2f).
4.10  Implementation of the Training Fund would be under the MAAIF, Department of
Training and Information (DTI). A committee, that would be chaired by the Head of DTI, would
be established to review all training proposals and make recommendations to the PMC. A
Training Officer, whose TOR, qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to GOU and to
IDA, would be recruited thirty days after credit effectiveness to manage and coordinate all
ASMP training activities under the Fund. He would also serve as secretary to the training
committee. Before the beginning of each fiscal year and using the training needs assessment
study as a basis, the training officer would prepare a detailed annual training plan, which would
be sent to IDA for its review. Assurances that the Training Officer would be appointed thirty
days after project effectiveness under TORs satisfactory to GOU and to IDA (see para.6.3f), and
annual training plans would be forwarded to IDA on a timely basis, was obtained during
negotiations (see para. 6. 2e). The appointment of the training committee referred above and the
completion, to the satisfaction of IDA, of the needs assessment study would be condition of
disbursement for the fund allocated for training (see para. 6.5a).
4.11  To introduce new management systems, a clear statement from the Government of its
medium-term policies and priority goals would be essential. Therefore, a condition of
negotiations was the receipt from GOU of a policy letter of Institutional Development
establishing in broad terms the Government's medium-term agricultural policy and strategy
framework, and the role of MAAIF in implementing these and furthering the GOU's primary
goals for agriculture; this letter, dated December 14, 1995, was received prior to negotiations (see
para. 6. la).



-29-
4.12 Agricultural Data and Information Systems (ADIS). The MAAIF, through
APD/Statistics Section, and the MFEP through the Statistics Department, would implement the
ADIS component. The APD, MAAIF and Statistics Department of MFEP would jointly
implement the annual agricultural surveys. Accordingly, MAAIF and MFEP would complete a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) which would define the respective roles and
responsibilities including a time-bound set of actions to be completed by each party. A draft of
this agreement was brought to negotiations for review by IDA (see para. 6.1c). The MOU
would be finalized thirty days after project effectiveness (see par. 6. 2h). Implementation of the
Primary Agricultural Data Base would be the responsibility of the Districts through the Chief
Administrative Officer. MAAIF would provide the necessary backstopping including training,
questionnaire design, development of guidelines, implementation supervision and data
processing. The Fisheries Survey would be carried out by the Fisheries Department of MAAIF.
Preparation for the census will be jointly undertaken by MAAIF and Statistics Department of the
MFEP. Assurances that the Government would take steps, satisfactory to IDA, ensuring that all
districts will carry out the Primary Agricultural Data Base survey before credit effectiveness,
were obtained during negotiations (see para. 6. 4c).
C. REPORTING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.13  Implementation Progress Reporting. Monitoring of project implementation would be
carried out by the MAAIF APD Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Key indicators to be used for
monitoring implementation progress, are presented in Annex 15 and 16. Under the purview of
the PM and the PMC, the Monitoring and Evaluation unit would prepare semi-annual reports on
the status of project implementation. These reports would include a brief discussion of any
issues/constraints affecting implementation, with proposals for remedial actions, as well as the
modalities for executing these actions. The reports would also include the time-bound
implementation action plan for the next six months for each component. The progress reports
would be sent to IDA no later than one month following the completion of the respective period,
the first report being due no later than seven months after project effectiveness.
4.14 Supervision Plan. The MAAIF, through the Project Manager, would act as the link
between GOU and IDA and would supervise the implementation of the project on a day-to-day
basis. Bi-annual and annual reports would be prepared and submitted based on the supervisions.
The World Bank Resident Mission would monitor and facilitate overall project implementation
mainly through its involvement in pre-screening disbursement and procurement. The World
Bank supervision mission from headquarters would take place once every six months. As shown
in Annex 14, staff input requirement would be between 6 and 12 staff-weeks per annum in the
field. Supervision from headquarters would be intensive during the first two years of the project
and would diminish thereafter; more of the supervision would be done by the Resident Mission
and GOU after the second year.
4.15  Impact Evaluation. The evaluation of project impact would be carried out by
independent consultants recruited under the project under TORs satisfactory to GOU and to IDA.
The consultants would conduct a Baseline Survey (within MAAIF and a sample of Districts),
which would be designed to assess the prevailing level of capacity and effectiveness of the public



-30-
sector agencies/ staff dealing with agriculture, and measuring these against the stated project
objectives and strategies. The survey would be completed before credit effectiveness (see para
6. 4a). An interim assessment of the project's implementation performance and effectiveness in
meeting the stated goals would be made through an Impact Evaluation Study, which would be
conducted within 30 months of credit effectiveness as part of the mid-term review. A final
Impact Evaluation study would be carried out within six months of the credit closing date. In
each case, the consultants' independent report would be sent to GOU and to IDA for review.
4.16 Implementation Manual and Annual Implementation Plan. MAAIF would prepare a
Project Implementation Manual for all components, including procurement, consultancy and
training procedures, TORs, implementation timetables, formats for reporting and annual work
plans/programs. Prior to the start of each fiscal year, the PM would prepare an Annual Project
Implementation Plan for the following year. The Plan would, among other things, detail the
main actions to be taken, by whom, and when. It would be prepared in consultation with the
work units and agencies responsible for project implementation. The implementation plan would
also include the annual procurement and training plans. The plan would be submitted to the PSC
for approval and sent to IDA one month prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. Draft Project
Implementation Manual and first year work plan with requisite budget estimate was brought to
negotiations for IDA's review and comments (see para. 6 Id). The receipt by IDA of a revised
Implementation Manual that is satisfactory would be a condition of credit effectiveness (see
para. 6. 4d).
4.17 Mid Term Review. A mid-term review of the project would be carried out by December
30, 1998. A comprehensive report on the project's implementation progress (in accordance with
the key performance indicators provided in Annexes 15 and 16), would be produced by the PM.
Among other things, the mid-term report would discuss implementation issues and make
recommendations for their resolution. It would also propose any modifications to project design,
which may be deemed necessary in order to improve project effectiveness. The report would be
accompanied by the independent Impact Evaluation report prepared by external consultants.
GOU and IDA would then jointly review the findings and recommendations and agree on future
strategy and a revised project implementation action plan, as necessary. Assurances that these
review/reporting requirements would be executed as above, was obtained during negotiations
(see para. 6. 2d).
4.18  Implementation Completion Report. Within six months of the completion of the
project, IDA would prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which would, among
other things, analyze the manner in which the project was implemented, discuss the relevance of
the project design and objectives in the light of implementation experience, evaluate the degree
to which the project objectives were achieved, and discuss the key implementation issues and
lessons leamed which could affect future project design and implementation. The ICR would be
sent to the GOU for review and comment, and GOU and IDA would consult on the main findings
and recommendations arising from the analysis.



-31-
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.1    Overview. This project is not amenable to the conventional project benefit-cost analysis.
Therefore, discussions on benefits and justification will be limited to the linkages between the
project and the macroeconomic setting, alternative project designs considered during preparation
to ensure least-cost, realistic and sustainable options, fiscal impact, cost recovery and
sustainability.
5.2   The project concept evolved from the GOU's medium-term economic development
strategy', as enunciated in its various policy documents, and the issues and problems that
emerged during the implementation of sector reform and investment projects. It also originated
from the Bank's extensive sector work (Uganda: Agriculture, 1993) and the recommendations of
a recent sector strategy note (Uganda: Agricultural Sector Strategy Note, 1994). Moreover, the
project is designed to translate into action the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, 1995/96 (see
paras. 2.17-2.18 above).
5.3   Project Benefits. The project will support key elements of the Government reform
agenda in the areas of civil service reform, decentralization, and agricultural reform and
development. It also supports GOU's primary objective of poverty reduction by improving
sectoral institutions' capacity to address economic growth and poverty issues, primarily through
enhancing the quality and delivery provision of public services.
5.4   The project would further support GOU's effort to make agricultural policy formulation
and the strategic planning process more efficient and effective, and thereby more responsive to
stakeholders needs, which is mainly the private sector. Systematic consultation with all
agricultural stakeholders over the direction of agricultural agencies, in the rapidly changing
domestic and international environment would be encouraged. The project would also assist in
setting the general framework for the strategic areas where distinct comparative advantage lie for
the Ugandan agricultural sector and which would bear tangible results over the medium and
long-term. Moreover, the project would ensure the strengthening of a capacity to provide high
standards of policy advice to the Government, improve the economic analysis of alternative
policies and strategies, and forge partnerships with stakeholders through client-focus and a
collaborative approach. The introduction of result-oriented management of MAAIF and
improvement in its internal systems, and the preparation and implementation of a sector
investment program are few of the benefits of the project.
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, The Way Forward l: Macroeconomic Strategy, 1990-1995;
Policy Framework Paper, 1996/97-1997/98: Rehabilitation and Development Plan 1995/96- 1997/9;
Background to the Budget, 1995/96.



-32-
5.5    Design Alternatives. The design of the project is influenced by Government policies and
actions in the areas of decentralization, civil service reform and adjustment programs under
implementation. Actions taken under the broad economic reform program have articulated the
role of both the private and the public sector. Likewise, the civil service reform and
decentralization programs are on-course, and have largely defined the roles, functions and
mandates of institutions at different levels, although much remains to be done in streamlining the
detailed arrangements.
5.6    Within this broad framework, alternatives that are least-cost, sustainable and capacity
creating/strengthening have been selected. The following design decisions, inter alia, have been
made after careful examination of alternatives. First, policy analytic capability would be shifted
from APC to MAAIF, economic policy research centers, local governments and the private
sector. This design would ensure greater participation, taking policy analysis closer to those who
implement the policy and would ensure that the issues addressed would be prioritized. Second,
the administration and the supervision of the research fund and research would be shifted from
MAAIF and the Agricultural Secretariat to EPRC. This forn of administration, in addition to
being cost-effective, would enable the institution to draw on the best people for the job, and
avoid institutional rivalry and friction. Third, district agricultural plans, and statistical data
collection would largely be the responsibility of local governments, thus, further strengthening
district capacity and devolving decision making and implementation to the districts. Fourth, the
design of the training program emphasizes on-the-job training, and would be work-related, and
focused on internal training. This design alternative produces a cost effectiveness ratio of 1:4 for
short-term training, and 1:2 for long-term training, compared to the training programs that are
currently under implementation in the sector.2 Besides being a least-cost alternative, the training
scheme would utilize and strengthen the existing domestic training institutions and make training
relevant.
5.7    Fiscal Impact. The total project cost is US$ 19.9 million, and the expected average
annual disbursement by GOU, is a small fraction of the 1995/96 budget for the agriculture sector
($90.0 million). The 1995/96 agriculture sector budget (excluding natural resource development,
but including agricultural projects outside of MAAIF) is about 4.8 percent of total public
expenditure. Over the life of the project, the incremental recurrent cost is US $4.5 million, 23
percent of the total project cost. The average annual recurrent budget implication of the project
during the project life is, therefore, about US $0.9 million. IDA would cover about 69 percent of
the incremental recurrent cost. The recurrent cost requirement for the continuation of some of
the activities after the completion of the project is estimated at about US $0.4 million per annum.
The Government would have to continue to make capital expenditures for the training of new
2   It is estimated that the cost of four-week short-term training in Europe or the US is on the average US$6000
per person. The cost of providing the same training in Uganda is estimated at about US$1500. The cost of
providing long-term training is about US$10,000 per year in Uganda, and US$20,000 in Europe. In addition
to the lower cost of training per person, the in-country focus would enable the participation of many staff
members in the same training program, further reducing the cost of training per person. For the in-country
training, recruitment of expatriate specialists are envisaged only for skills that are not available.



-33-
staff, agricultural surveys, improving the information system, economic studies, and replacement
of facilities acquired through the project. Most of these expenditures and requirements, however,
would be met from earnings that would be generated from the provision of services by
Government agencies on a competitive basis.
5.8   Project impact on government revenue is hard to estimate, and is complicated by the fact
that it stems from increased sector economic activities due to changes introduced in the policy,
regulatory and incentive framework. For instance, policy advice given to Government based on
project-supported research and studies could bring about a positive change in the domestic
business environment, and could result in an increase in the income of farmers and enterprises, as
well as Government revenue. Likewise, amendments of regulatory, infrastructural and
institutional arrangements that are no longer effective, and prejudicial to the performance of the
agriculture sector could have major financial impact on Government and sector stakeholders. It
is, therefore, difficult, at this stage, to estimate the fiscal impact when the kinds of policy issues
to be dealt with and the changes to be introduced are unidentified.
5.9   The savings on sector expenditure would also be difficult to quantify. The financial
resources allocated to agriculture through the Central Government, and those channeled directly
by donors and NGOs are significant. Lack of accountability and poor financial management
have led to embezzlement, particularly in the MAAIF. According to a Government reports, the
amount of money and property that MAAIF could not account for when the 1992-93 accounts
were audited is estimated at about US$1.0 million. Therefore, funds and assets that are
mismanaged in any one particular year could be in the millions. The implementation of the
internal system improvement component would, therefore, significantly reduce losses arising
from financial and asset mismanagement and could release funds for appropriate purposes.
Another source of saving is the rationalization of functions and the streamlining of procedures
stemming from the implementation of the result-oriented management system and ASIP. The
Government is also designing a new structure for MAAIF that would strengthen the policy wing
and devolve the other services to the districts, thereby making the new structure lean and
reducing the existing staff size.
5.10  Cost Recovery. This project would be instrumental in the introduction of cost-recovery
in MAAIF. The proposed result-oriented management system and the improved internal systems
would create the conditions necessary for putting in place a successful cost recovery scheme.
Initially, the extent of cost recovery would not be significant; however, it would be increased
gradually. There are a number of areas where intra-ministerial and inter-agency exchange of
services take place without due cost accounting or transfer pricing. The public, particularly
farmers and farm enterprises, get services regardless of their ability or willingness to pay. This
has stretched the Government's capacity to provide services in those areas where they are needed
most. At the same time, public sector involvement in the provision of services across the board
has deterred competitiveness and the development of the private sector, in service delivery. The
Government, through ASMP, would open up the traditionally state-provided services for
competition, and would also encourage Government agencies to provide competitive services, or
through cost sharing. Monopolistic tendencies in some public agencies in the provision of
services would be eliminated.



-34-
5.11  The areas where services could be provided on a competitive basis include, inter alia, (a)
studies, policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation and project preparation services; (b) survey
design, survey supervision, data processing and agricultural statistical data; and (c) technical
services in the areas of quality assurance, pest and disease control, farm consultancy, laboratory
diagnostic services, etc. In this regard, cost sharing in research and extension could be
introduced. The contracting of activities to agencies that are better suited to provide services
(EPRC would be contracted to administer APRF; Statistics Department of MFEP's to be
contracted to carry out field enumeration; consulting firms would participate in policy research
that would lead to policy decisions) would be a positive undertaking by the project in introducing
cost recovery outside the Ministry. Within the Ministry, the APD already undertakes studies for
other Directorates, and could provide similar services, and more, at cost to NGOs, multilateral
organizations and enterprises once its analytical capacity is strengthened further. Reports
produced from the various studies and the agricultural surveys could be sold to recover costs.
Data processing facilities, as well as sample design and data analysis capabilities of the Ministry
could be contracted, and the revenue generated could be used for maintenance, replacement and
improvement of facilities.
5.12  Sustainability. The project would be sustainable because the design is underpinned by a
careful definition of the role of the Government in agriculture and the assignment of clear role
and functions to the major stakeholders in the sector. The project further identified the critical
support that stakeholders would need to effectively participate in sector development. It is also
sustainable because it is consistent with GOU's policy of decentralization, civil service reform
and economic liberalization. MAAIF, local governments and participating government agencies
would be strengthened, and their capacity to provide essential services improved. The
continuation of the activities initiated under the project should not be dependent on external
financing, since both incremental recurrent and development expenditures could be met,
partially, from internally generated earnings. Government agencies would gradually move into
the provision of demand-driven services on a competitive basis, and private sector participation
would be encouraged. This would enable public agencies to be self-supporting, and to finance
their operations on a sustainable basis, with little or no government support.
5.13   Performance Criteria. Performance indicators that are considered relevant and practical
for this project are developed in Annexes 15 and 16. The objective would be to link project goals
with outcomes. The indicators would allow a reasonable estimate of the attainment of the
benefits anticipated from the project at different stages of implementation, and the sustainability
of the operation.
B. RIsKS
5.14  The project risks are largely associated with the Government reform programs that are
under implementation. The assumption is that GOU's reform agenda would remain unchanged,
and implementation progress would not be unduly delayed. The Civil Service Reform program,
particularly those aspects that deal with the introduction of a result-oriented management system,
improvement of civil service salaries and incentives, restructuring and defining role and



-35-
functions of government agencies are critical. Implementation of the decentralization program is
also necessary for effective implementation of the project
5.15  Ugandans to participate in the implementation of various components of the project. At
present, MAAIF is unable to attract qualified and adequate number of staff in the area of strategic
planning and policy analysis, due to inability to pay adequate compensation. The Government is
addressing the problem by moving towards the minimum living wage, but it would take time
before it reaches a level that could attract and retain professionals in the Ministry. Until the issue
of staff emolument and incentive packages is resolved, ASMP would assist the Ministry in
attracting and retaining good staff through non-pecuniary incentives, such as possibility of
participating in challenging assignments, availability of developmental training opportunities,
and operating in a much improved work environment. The project would also aim for limited
short-term technical assistance in some critical areas where local expertise is lacking.
5.16  The second risk is the lack of commitment to support and strengthen line ministries and
agencies to carry out their new mandates without being undermined by parallel institutions. One
such institution in the past was the APC/AGSEC. Although it played a very useful role, it has
been mentioned as a cause for the weaknesses of line ministries and agencies in strategic
planning and policy formulation. The GOU has redefined the future role and functions of the
APC/AGSEC with the view to avoid duplication and to support capacity building in the line
ministries and agencies. The project would monitor the emergence of new institutional
arrangement that could undermine the objectives and operations of the project. Assurances that
parallel institutions that would undermine the mandates of line ministries in this regard would
not be created/encouraged, were obtained during negotiations.



-36-
6. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. CONDITIONS MET PRIOR TO NEGOTIATIONS
6.1   The following actions were completed, and appropriate letters and documents received
before negotiations:
(a)   A letter dated December 14, 1995 detailing the Government's sector institutional
development strategies, and providing clear definition of the role of MAAIF in the
agricultural sector and MAAIF's mission statement (para. 4.1 1).
(b)   A draft of the agreement between MAAIF and EPRC outlining the administration
of the APRF, and the modalities of the twinning arrangement for technical
assistance (paras.4.5 and 4.8).
(c)   A draft Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between MAAIF and the
Department of Statistics of MFEP for implementing the ADIS component (para.
4.12).
(d)   Draft Project Implementation Manual, and the first year implementation plan with
the requisite GOU's budget estimate (para.4.16).
B. ASSURANCES OBTAINED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.2   The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)   APD would finalize an annual work program, at the beginning of each fiscal year,
with each of the three MAAIF Directorates and other relevant agencies; the
agreement would, inter alia, specify the principal assignments to be undertaken
by APD and the related completion schedule. This would be sent to IDA for
review (para. 3.32).
(b)   ASIP Manager whose qualifications, experience and TORs would be satisfactory
to GOU and to IDA would be appointed, and the preparation, organization,
management and timing of the ASIP would be as detailed in para. 4.7 and Annex
5.
(c)   The preparation of the guidelines for District Agricultural Development Plans
would be completed thirty days after project effectiveness, and the preparation of
the District Agricultural Plans would be completed by the second year of the
project (para. 4.6).



-37-
(d)   GOU and IDA would jointly conduct a mid-term review for the project within
twenty four months of project effectiveness but not later than December 30, 1998
(para 4.17).
(e)   Training needs assessment study would be completed and the training committee
established no later than six months after project effectiveness, and annual
training plans would be prepared and submitted for IDA's review (paras. 3.34 and
4.10).
(f)   MAAIF would recruit the financial, procurement and audit officers thirty days
after project effectiveness; a training officer with qualifications satisfactory to
GOU and IDA will also be appointed (paras. 4.9 and 4.10).
(g)   The preparation of project implementation plan, including annual implementation
plans, would be as outlined in para 4.16.
(h)   Agreements between: (i) MAAIF and EPRC concerning the administration of
APRF and the twinning arrangement; and (ii) between MAAIF and Statistics
Department of the MFEP would be finalized no later than thirty days after project
effectiveness (paras. 4.5, 4.8 and 4.12).
(i)    GOU would set up the Project Steering Committee and the Project Management
Committee not later than thirty days after project effectiveness (para. 4.2).
C. CONDITIONS FOR CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS
6.3   Completion of the following actions would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   The baseline survey that would provide a basis for monitoring project impact
would have been completed (para. 4.15).
(b)   MAAIF would fill APD's vacant posts and new positions with adequately
qualified staff (para. 4.5).
(c)   Government would take steps, satisfactory to IDA, ensuring that all districts will
carry out the PADB surveys (para. 4.12).
(d)   Receipt by IDA of a revised Project Implementation Manual (4.16).
D. CONDITIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
6.4   The following actions would need to be completed before disbursement:
(a)    Training: MAAIF would furnish a training needs assessment study satisfactory
to IDA, and would appoint a training committee (para, 4. 10);



-38-
(b)   Agricultural Policy Research Fund: EPRC would submit a model Grant
Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, that would be entered with
individuals/institutions that will carry our policy research (para.4.8).
E. RECOMMENDATION
6.5   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit of SDR 12.1
million (US$17.9 million equivalent) to the Republic of Uganda on standard IDA terms.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
Telephones: Minister:                                           Ministry of Finance and
Kampala 24305' & 232370                               Economic Planning,
Kampala 234700t9 (10 Lines)                          P.O. Box 8147,
Telex:    61170                          J WI
Telegrams:  'FINSEC -                     j                     Kampala,
in any correspondence on                                        Uganda
this subject please quoto No           -frW.PUSL1C OF UGANOA
ED/C/1 8 54/6/8/1 1
14th December, 1995
The President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
USA
UGANDA
LETTER OF STRATEGY FOR AGRICULTURE AND INSTrITONAL
DEVELOPMENT
Dear Mr. President,
This is to inform you about the objectives and strategies for institutional and agricultural
development of the Government of Uganda and also to request IDA to finance the proposed
Agricultural Sector Management Project.
Introduction and Background
Since 1987, the Government has been implementing a broad programme of economic and fiscal
management reform. The overall strategy behind these reforms included three clear priorities:
* to promote economic growth and to reduce poverty;
* to sustain macroeconomic stability; and
* to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Govemment and public-provided services.
A large number of donors including IDA, have provided substantial support to this programme.
We are very grateful for this assistance.
This broad programme has been successful in achieving macroeconomic stability. Among other
things, Government has carried out substantial deregulation of the economy. Market and price



Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
controls have been removed and the exchange rate and interest rates are now set by market
forces.
The economic reform programme is based on prudent fiscal and monetary management,
improved incentives to the private sector, and reform of regulatory framework. The Government
continues to pursue tight fiscal policies and to be active in absorbing excess liquidity from the
market. Stability in the external balance is also being pursued through prudent macroeconomic
policies aimed at getting the exchange rate right. An open, competitive and market determined
exchange rate is being maintained and we are making successful efforts to reduce the dependence
on coffee as the main foreign exchange earner.
Notable successes have been recorded. Annual inflation fell from a high of over 200 percent in
1988 to about three percent in 1994/95. Since 1987, economic growth has averaged about six
percent resulting in a per capita gain of about 2.9 percent annually on average. Government is
introducing measures to broaden the tax base in order to bring the fiscal position into balance.
Government expenditure is being strictly controlled. Public investment programmes have been
prioritized and are being kept under continuous review.
The priorities outlined above remain unchanged and the Govermnent will continue to take
whatever steps are needed to maintain the macroeconomic stability which is the essential
foundation for promoting investment and economic growth.
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
While the Government aims at diversifying the economy, but still agriculture remains to be the
key to improved economic performance, increased incomes and raising the standard of living as
well as reduction of poverty throughout Uganda. Therefore agriculture is a priority sector in
Uganda.
Agriculture dominates the economy of Uganda, accounting for 51 percent of GDP and more than
90 percent of export earnings. The population is rural based and agriculture provides
employment to over 80 percent of the entire population. During the last seven years, agricultural
growth has averaged around 3.2 percent annually largely due to rapid growth in the food
subsector. In 1994/95 agricultural GDP growth was about six percent compared to under two
percent the previous year. This was due to a strong growth in the food subsector and to the boom
in coffee prices.
The government's Economic Reform Programme has already brought about substantial benefits
to the rural population and agriculture. Marketing and exchange rate deregulation has, for
example resulted into the increase of farm gate prices of virtually all agricultural products.
The Government has adopted a broad based strategy for sustainable agricultural development.
The strategy is designed to improve the welfare of the rural poor while enhancing agricultural
output and exports. This strategy includes, but not limited to:



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
removal of bias against rural areas (taxation, public investment, infrastructure,
services);
increasing productivity and incomes on smallholder farms (generation and
dissemination of appropriate technology, production, processing, marketing);
improving access to markets (transport, roads, infrastructure);
improving the environment for small enterprise development (public utility
efficiency);
contractual enforcement procedures, financial infrastructure, property rights, land
registry, administrative infrastructure); and
strengthening rural farmer-owned institutions (cooperatives, women groups,
savings and credit unions, rural associations).
While Government is working simultaneously on all these actions, highest priority in agriculture
is given to our research and extension capacity and efficiency.
The role of government in this strategy is to maintain the economic and fiscal environment to
enable the private sector to play the dominant role in agriculture and rural development. We
have already made substantial progress in establishing the required policyframework and will
continue our efforts to strengthen the impact of policy reforms.
Export performance has been dominated by coffee but of late, we have successfully reduced our
reliance on coffee as the main export earner. Of late, the value of non-traditional agricultural
exports, mainly maize, beans, fish products and hides and skins, have grown rapidly. From less
than one percent of total agricultural exports in 1988, they now constitute over 30% by value.
Continuing to diversify and expand agricultural exports is a priority strategy of Government.
Decentralization among other things, aims at making Government more responsive to local needs
and to focusing resource allocation to the priorities of local authorities. Since agriculture
dominates the economy, in the overwhelming majority of the 39 districts, it will provide the
main source of economic growth and be the priority area for resource allocation.
Institutional Development Strategy and Goals
An integral part of the transformation programme is the Civil Service Reform. The broad
objectives of the Reform are to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and responsiveness of
governance; to enhance the role of the private sector as the primary agent for achieving economic
development and to decentralize responsibility for providing core services and fostering
economic and rural development to local authorities. More specifically, the Government aims to
create a small, efficient, highly motivated and well renumerated civil service which provides
quality service to both the private sector and to Government. Government is determined to bring
about a change in the "management culture" of the public sector from one that emphasizes the
maintenance and sometimes expansion of existing programme mandates, to one that focuses on
programme performance and efficiency.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
The strategies for achieving these goals include rationalizing and downsizing the civil service,
reforming the renumeration and payroll administration, restructuring ministries, introducing
personnel management systems and decentralizing government functions. Actions aimed at
improving civil service capacity and productivity are being taken. The recently approved
Institutional Capacity Building Project (CR. 2736 - UG) forms an integral part of our programme
in this regard.
So far, the Government has carried out a major rationalization exercise and we have almost
completed a ministerial restructuring exercise which should result into a slimmer, more efficient
and more focused ministries. The number of civil servants has been reduced dramatically from
320,000 in 1990 to 148,000 at the end of 1994. Further reductions and streamlining continues.
Apart from streamlining and restructuring, a key civil service strategy is to improve staff
accountability and performance. In this regard we intend to introduce Result Oriented
Management (ROM) and operational systems. We are aware that this is a formidable task and
challenge. In due course ROM principles will be introduced into the budget preparation process.
We intend to use a number of selected priority ministries including the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) to pilot the introduction of ROM.
We plan to phase the preparation and transition of ROM. The first two phases of priority service
and identification and creating awareness, including training, are being implemented under the
Institutional Capacity Building Project. The third phase of ROM, which is a more intensive
system design and implementation will be implemented by MAAIF under the Agricultural Sector
Management Project.
The Role and Mission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
The policy of the Government is to decentralize most services and implementation of activities to
the districts. This programme is well advanced. As districts develop capacities, they will, within
the framework of overall government policies, have full autonomy in the use of government
allocated and local revenues.
The Decentralization programme has profoundly changed the role of and mission of the civil
service and especially the line ministries. Line ministries have got to focus on supporting the
private sector. Thus the new role of MAAIF focuses on three main areas: first, policy and
strategy formulation and constantly monitoring the impact of the reform measures; second,
provision of high level technical services and backup for district based services; and third,
providing the necessary regulatory framework to safeguard the quality of our agricultural
products and the enforcement of statutory standards and regulations.
The restructuring programme of MAAIF is based on this strategy. We hare already carried out a
major organizational restructuring of MAAIF. We are currently conducting a second review of
the structure in order to ensure that it is appropriate to the new role of MAAIF. We acknowledge
that the structure needs to be suited to continuing changes in roles and functions. Thus we plan
to revisit the issue and review any proposed changes with IDA.



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Arising from this new role, the mission of MAAIF is to support and promote agricultural
sector development which would make the maximum contribution to the economic, social
and environmental well-being of the economy and the people of Uganda. The three broad
goals and the strategic priorities implied in such a mission are: first, to increase the value added
to agricultural output thereby targeting an increase in rural family incomes and well-being;
second, to maximize high quality, competitive exports; third, to expand the contribution of
agriculture to GDP and to employment levels throughout the economy. The vehicle for
implementing these priority strategies is the private sector.
In line with our strategy of improving the quality of government services provided to the private
sector, the need now, is, among other things, to take action to strengthen capacity in policy
formulation and strategic planning, to carry out management system reform, and to improve the
quantity and quality of agricultural data.
The Agricultural Sector Management Project would provide the type of assistance needed to
implement these actions. The broad objectives of this project are: (i) to enhance analytical
capacity for policy formulation in the agricultural sector in general and within MAAIF in
particular; (ii) to improve the responsiveness, efficiency, and effectiveness of MAAIF in carrying
out its redefined role in agricultural sector management through reforming internal systems and
operational and financial management; and (iii) to strengthen agricultural sector planning within
the decentralized districts.
The priority strategies to be used in achieving these objectives would include: developing policy
formulation capacity within the Department of Agricultural Planning of MAAIF and promoting
policy formulation research throughout the sector; preparing a comprehensive agricultural sector
investment programme to replace the current project approach to agricultural development,
strengthening the quality and relevance of the agricultural information and database in both the
sector and in the districts; rationalizing the roles and functions of MAAIF and other public
institutions; strengthening the internal administration, financial operations and management
systems of MAAIF, promotion of human resource development through appropriate training and
skill enhancement programmes including the establishment of a training fund to finance demand
driven implementation and management training both at the centre and in districts; and
developing district capacity to prepare agricultural and rural development programmes relevant
to the priority needs and aspirations of the rural communities.
Under the proposed Agricultural Sector Management Project, these strategies would be
implemented through three main components: (i) policy formulation and strategic planning; (ii)
management reform and institutional strengthening; and (iii) information and agricultural data
collection and analysis.
The objectives and strategies of the project would support those of the Government. They would
play an important part in enhancing the effectiveness of the ongoing Civil Service Reform and
Decentralization programmes. The Agricultural Sector Management Project would play a
pivotal role in supporting the Government's goals for enhancing civil service efficiency and



Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
effectiveness. It would also be supportive of our strategies to promoting agricultural and rural
development and indirectly, rural poverty. Furthermore, the project would complement the
programme to be implemented under the IDA supported Institutional Capacity Building Project.
The Government of Uganda, therefore, looks forward to your favourable consideration of our
request to provide finances for the proposed project.
Yours sincerely,
Jehoash Mayanja-Nlcangi
MINISTER FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
cc: World Bank, Resident Mission, KAMPALA



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries
Organizational Structure
1.    The MAAIF was formed in June 1992 by merging two key agricultural ministries: the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of animal Industry and Fisheries. The Ministry is
headed by one minister, two ministers of state, and a permanent secretary. It has three
directorates-- the Directorates of Animal Resources, Crop Resources and Agricultural Extension;
and two departments-- the Departments of Agricultural Planning and Finance and Administration
(Chart 1).
2.    The Directorate of Animal Resources promotes development of animal industry including,
inter alia, dairy, fishery, beef, small animals like sheep, goats, rabbits; piggery, and apiary, through
the provision of improved breed extension and husbandry practices. It has three departments,
namely, Department of Veterinary Services, Department of Entomology and Department of
Fisheries.
3.    The Directorate of Agricultural Extension provides technical services related to production,
processing, storage and marketing of agricultural products, etc., and is the vehicle for the transfer of
new and improved technology from research centers to farmers. It is serviced by three departments:
Departments of Crop Production and Marketing, Animal Production and Training and Information.
4.    The Directorate of Crop Resources has two Departments, namely, the Department of Plant
Protection and the Department of Land Resources and Development. It is responsible for plant
protection and land resources development.
5.    The Agricultural Planning Department defines sector development objectives and priorities,
prepares agricultural plans, programs, projects and budgets, and ensures availability of up-to-date
agricultural data. The Finance and Administration Department is responsible for the management
of finance and human resources, as well as for the management of the assets under the control of
the Ministry.



Organization of the Main Structures of MAAIF Headquarters
emaent Seceay
|Directorate of |||Directorate of |                               Under Secretary ||r Agricultural  R 1Directorate of|
|Crop Resource |||Agric. Extensionl  Finance &Admin||  Planning                                 |||Agriculture     l
Plant         an   esource    Crop Productio       Animal         Training and           Veterinary       Entomolog         Fisheries
Protection     & Development      & Marketing       Production       Information
we :
X m
x
0



Annex 3
Page 1 of`5
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL POLICY COMMITTEE
Background
1.    The Agricultural Policy Commnittee (APC) was created in 1982 to serve as a steering
committee for the IDA supported Agricultural Rehabilitation Project. APC's major role was to
formulate, coordinate, direct and review key policies and programs in the sector. It was
supported by an independent secretariat, the AGSEC, that provided administrative, technical and
analytic services. The principal reasons for the creation of the APC were the multiplicity of
ministries and parastatals dealing with the agricultural sector, the weakness of planning sections
and units in the ministries and agencies, and the need for purposeful coordination. Thus, APC
was an interim arrangement for coordinating agricultural policies, plans, projects, and resources
allocation in the sector.
2.    Membership of the APC was drawn entirely from the public sector and included
Permanent Secretaries of ministries and a General Manager of agencies. Private sector
representation was absent, but improved in recent years as a result of restructuring in the
economy. APC is subordinate to the Presidential Economic Council (PEC) and frequently
responds to directives to deal with specific issues, and also refer important sectoral matters to
PEC as well as to the Cabinet. Composed of all economic and social ministries and chaired by
the President, the PEC is established to advise the President on the overall development of
Uganda.
3.    The original mandate of the APC/AGSEC, that was to some extent modified over the
years, has steered its activities up to the present. However, the modifications did not correct all
the deficiencies of the past, and have given only limited direction to future work, and does not
take full account of current economic and institutional consideration. Recently the Government
carried out a critical review of the mandate, performance, achievement and future of the APC and
its Secretariat.
Review of APC and AGSEC
4.    The review, submitted to the Government in October 1995, revealed that both the APC
and AGSEC have done a useful job, and are still needed and should continue. At the same time,
it concluded that there is a need for a comprehensive redefinition of the role and functions of
both bodies, and identified areas for the rationalization of APC's membership, and suggested
improvements in its administration, etc. The APC, while playing a useful role in sector
rehabilitation, formulating price policies and strategies, developing programs and projects, at



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
times, failed to take a long-term view of the institutions in the agricultural sector. Its activities
have been focused on the requirements of project and program implementation, most of which
should have been done by the line ministries and agencies concerned. Its membership has
expanded, although non-public sector stakehholders were not included. Although the
responsibility to initiate studies and submit them for policy decision rests in the line ministries
and agencies, this was not encouraged by both the APC and the Secretariat for the last several
years. Thus, capacity outside the secretariat remained weak up to the present. This has reduced
the ministry and agency's planning department's capacity for policy analysis and economic
research.
5.    The review also found that the AGSEC has been effective and efficient in its technical
and analytical work and in the secretarial services provided to the APC. It has played an
essential part in both the decision making and management of policy, and institutional reforms,
particularly in areas of trade liberalization, and restructuring marketing and processing
parastatals. In spite of these satisfactory performances, the AGSEC, like the APC, did not
consider capacity building in the line ministries and agencies as its objective. The line ministries
were contributors to the task forces and working groups that were created by the APC/AGSEC,
never taking the initiative and not encouraged or supported or motivated to carry out their own
mandate. The AGSEC was the only institution with motivated staff, financial resources to hire
staff on a short and long-term basis, and the capability to motivate and facilitate them as
appropriate.
6.    The channeling of donor assistance to a single institution in the area of capacity building
and the concern that this could not be sustainable led to the examination of the role of
APC/AGSEC and its relationship with other institutions. Moreover, under the civil service
reform, the mandate of the line ministries and agencies in agriculture was redefined and the role
that was assumed by AGSEC was clearly designated as a mandate for these ministries and
agencies, requiring redefinition of the role of the APC/AGSEC. Moreover, the Bank of Uganda,
where the AGSEC was housed for administrative reasons, declared it non-core and suspended its
support which it had provided for over a decade.
Future Role of APC and APSEC
7.    APC. There is a consensus among all organizations concerned with agriculture sector
development about the need for the continuation of the APC, and for clearly defining its future
role. The first reason given for its continuation is the role it has played in the development of an
appropriate policy framework for the agricultural sector. In the past, it has played a critical role
in the design of sectoral objectives and short and medium-term strategies. These strategies need
to be periodically reviewed to assess achievements, to identify and weigh the significance of
changing economic and social circumstances, and to reassess constraints and needs. Such stock-
taking should then be followed by updating or total revision of the strategy for a further medium-
tern period to guide interventions and investment, both in direct production and distribution, and
in infrastructure and services, by all the stakeholders in the rural economy. Such a strategy of



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
review and updating is seen as just as important as when the government was engaged in
reconstruction, and economic reform. The second reason involves, cross-ministerial/agency
issues, both ongoing and newly-emerging, which need the comprehensive technical consideration
that can best be provided under the APC framework. Finally, in accordance with the
participatory concepts that underpin the approach to governance by the present Government,
APC provides a suitable and needed forum where stakeholders in the sector can raise issues that
are of concern to their operations.
8.   In light of past achievements and weaknesses, the review recommended that the APC's
role should be to bring together government ministries and other stakeholders in the agricultural
sector to further the development of the rural economy. The study recommended the redefinition
of APC's role as follows:
(a)   to formulate and periodically review strategies and policies for the agricultural
sector;
(b)   to generally coordinate and harmonize policy reforms and programs aimed at
developing the rural economy; and
(c)   to investigate, and, as appropriate, report to government, on issues affecting the
sector that need to be considered in a multi-ministry/agency forum.
9.    The redefined roles above simplify and clarify the previous TOR and eliminate references
to activities that are responsibilities of the line ministries and agencies. In addition to redefining
the role of the APC, the study proposed the following method of work: (a) rely on the line
ministries and other APC member organizations for analytic studies, surveys and data, and
encourage the members to come up with issues for consideration by APC; (b) continue to carry
out its activities principally through convening subsidiary groups to enable thorough technical
consideration of all issues, and facilitate formulation of recommendations on policies and
strategies; (c) strengthen the linkage with PEC through a meeting organized to discuss issues that
emerge from the work of APC, and by reporting major decisions and recommendations of the
APC by its chairman to the chairman of the PEC; (d) strengthen linkages with other policy
making bodies such as the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA); and (e)
make adjustments to existing membership and invite new members to include the Ministry of
Local Government, and to improve representation from private sector stakeholders.
10.   APSEC. Following from the above, the study recommended a secretariat for the APC,
and former AGSEC to be renamed APC Secretariat (APSEC). The role of the APSEC would be
to directly provide, or endure the provision of, administrative, technical, and analytical services
needed by APC to fulfill its own role. It is expected to be a secretariat technically and
administratively competent, but relying on analytical studies and surveys carried out by line
ministries and other outside bodies. Apart from existing commitments with regard to ASAC and
CSDP, APSEC would no longer be regarded as the "executive arm" of APC or its "think tank";



Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
all project implementation and initiation of policies would be the responsibility of line ministries
or other executing agencies. Disregarding the option of using APSEC as a policy "think thank"
is considered appropriate at this stage because, it would avoid friction with line ministries, or
undermine policy analysis capacity-building in them.
11.   To effectively fulfill the new role APSEC will be responsible for: (a) maintaining broad
knowledge and understanding of the agricultural sector, and keeping abreast of developments
both within Uganda and in Uganda's main export markets, and of emerging problems,
constraints and issues; (b) advising, organizing meetings, and providing staff to serve as
secretaries to, APC; (c) organizing the provision of information and opinion relevant to the work
of APC, and providing informed interpretation of information and opinions and making
recommendations to APC about strategies, policies, priorities, and decision on specific issues
related to the agricultural sector; and (d) fostering interaction and information exchanges among
all professional staff engaged in policy formulation, analysis and planning.
12.   The review also recommended an institutional framework for the proposed APSEC, since
BOU, as part of its restructuring and cost-cutting exercise identified AGSEC as non-core and
ceased to provide funding. After considering alternative institutional arrangements, the study
recommended APSEC to be a semi-autonomous unit under the MFEP. This institutional
arrangement is recommended because it meets the principles that were identified as essential for
a body like APSEC to function effectively. These principles are: (a) organizationally, a separate
entity neutral with regard to line ministries and other stakeholder representative bodies; (b) a
clear focus on serving the APC and its subsidiary bodies; (c) a TOR and activities that should not
conflict with the responsibilities of line ministries; (d) institutionally be located and structured so
as to facilitate long-term capacity building both within its parent organization and in line
ministry planning departments; (e) its office be readily accessible to professionals from APC
member organizations; (f) have a small team of competent staff with adequate incentive and
facilitation; and (g) flexible organization with a minimum bureaucratic procedures. Therefore,
the recommendation was a simple structure under the Director that would have four senior and
five junior professional staff, accounts/administrative officers, and support staff.
13.   A standing sub-committee of the APC, that will serve as Technical Sub-committee, is
recommended by the review. This will be composed of heads of planning or research
departments in APC member organizations, including private sector associations, under the
chairmanship of the Director, APSEC. Its role would be to make proposals for the APC work
program and agenda, make proposals for the establishment and membership of APC subsidiary
bodies and decide on and coordinate analytical and data collection work activities to be
undertaken by APC member organizations and other outside bodies.
14.   APSEC is technically under the administrative budget of MFEP. However, all funding
up to the end of 1995 is from IDA under the ASAC, implemented through FAO trust fund
arrangements. From 1/1/96 to 30/6/98 funding provision of US$1.6 million would be provided
under Cotton Subsector Development Project for recurrent costs subject to restricting the cost



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
under FAO arrangement to 50 percent in 1996; 30 percent in 1997 and zero, thereafter. This is a
commitment in principle for GOU contribution to recurrent funding from 1/1/96. The ASMP
would support investment costs, mainly training, replacement of vehicles and equipment and
short-term consultancies after 1/7/98.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Policy Research Fund
Background
1.    A comparatively large number of institutions contribute, to a greater or lesser extent, to
the agricultural policy formulation process. These include mainline ministries such as the
MAAIF, MTI, MFEP, the Bank of Uganda, cash crop Boards (coffee, tea, cotton), Makerere
University, the Department of Agricultural Economics, Makerere Institute for Social Research,
NARO, Uganda National Farmers Association, and members of the donor community. More
recently, the Economic Policy Research Center was established as an independent research
center. Its mandate includes conducting and promoting agricultural policy related research.
Many of the agricultural sector and related stakeholders tend to focus more on strategy
formulation within their particular subsector rather than policy 1. Policy is made ultimately by
the central government through the cabinet. It is the overall policy environment, set by
government, that provides the framework for guiding the formulation of subsector strategies.
2.    In more recent years, much of the background research and analysis required for policy
decision-making has been done by the Agricultural Secretariat (AGSEC) of the Agricultural
Policy Committee (APC). For administrative reasons, the AgSec has, in the past, been a
department of the Bank of Uganda. The Agricultural Policy Committee is a policy coordinating
body comprised of representatives at the Permanent Secretary or equivalent level, from MFEP,
MAAIF, MTI, MNR and Lands, Office of the PM, Bank of Uganda, and CMB, NARO and
UCA. It is chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Finance. On policy issues, the APC makes
recommendations to the President's Economic Council, chaired by the President. Ultimately,
policy decisions are made by the Cabinet, but the PEC is able to make many policy decisions
without waiting for Cabinet endorsement.
3.    Current Status of Policy Formulation Skills. Agricultural policy formulation skills and
understanding are comparatively weak in the line ministries. Within the agricultural sector there
is a need for government to be able to draw on a wider range of sources for independent, policy-
related advice based on sound analysis and research. This need, and the comparative lack of
policy formulation capacity, would be one reason for the establishment of the EPRC. The
government intends that line ministries should develop their capacity to provide sound and
analytically-based advice on policy issues within their respective sectors. But the Government
Policy is defined as a decision or framework which guides related decision-making. Strategies are the set of
actions proposed for implementing the policy decisions.



Ann  4
Page 2 of 7
also sees the need to foster this development in the non-state sector. One of the principal aims of
the Agricultural Sector Management Project is to promote the development of this capacity
within a wide range of independent agricultural sector stakeholders, including both the state and
non-state sectors. Capacity building in policy analysis and formulation within the private
consultant and appropriate agribusiness sectors would be one of the aims of the proposed APRF.
The Economic Policy Research Center
4.    The EPRC is an autonomous non-profit institution established in 1994 under a grant from
the African Capacity Building Foundation. The Center is governed by a Board of Management
of 10 members representative of important national institutions, both state and private, leading
academics and private sector managers. The Board is chaired by the Permanent Secretary for
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. Day-to-day operations are managed by an
Executive Director assisted by a Program Administrator and a number of Senior Research
Fellows. 'The Center has close ties with, but is not part of, Makerere University. It is also
actively expanding linkages with international policy research institutions such as Oxford, Magill
and Harvard Universities.
5.    The Center is mandated to (a) undertake research which would enhance the national
capacity for policy analysis and decision-making; (b) develop research programs covering
diverse areas including macroeconomics, industrial, agricultural, population, public and private
sector management and environmental policies; (c) disseminate research findings through
publications, seminars, workshops, short courses, etc.; (d) develop close relationships with local
and international institutions; (e) establish links with foreign institutions able to provide research
advice and joint collaboration in research; and (f) establish a "Young Professionals" program to
strengthen local capacity in research and policy formulation. Currently the Center is carrying out
research on a number of policy-related research issues, including the nature of poverty and its
alleviation, the nature and determinants of domestic savings, the determinants of foreign
investment in Uganda and their impact on economic growth, the tax structure, informal/formal
credit accessibility for the rural poor, which, by definition, is largely agriculture, and trade
related policies.
6.    EPRC currently has a total professional staff of twelve. These include the Executive
Director (Ph.D.), two full time research fellows (Ph.D.), a fully qualified program administrator
who also acts as the in-house legal adviser (MBA, LL.B.) and a qualified librarian (M.Sc). Two
"young professionals" are currently enrolled in the program, and the support staff (4) includes a
qualified secretary. Currently, the center is in the process of recruiting additional professional
staff. The center has its own well equipped offices situated within the Makerere University
campus. Facilities include a seminar room, two fully equipped computer rooms for the exclusive
use of researchers and a good library. Given the close relationships with the university, EPRC is
able to draw upon the campus facilities and resources when required. The audited accounts for
the first six months of operation have been produced without qualification. The financial
administration and control systems are in place and adequate.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
7.    The Economic Policy Research Center is a comparatively new organization. It has well
qualified staff and good facilities to enable it to carry out its mandate. It has demonstrated good
administration and financial control. It is undertaking an active research program, and is
expanding its linkages with external institutions both internationally and locally. While it does
not have a fully proven track record, it has made a promising beginning. It has the potential to
make a real contribution to building policy research, analyses and formulation capacity within
Uganda. The proposed Agricultural Policy Research Fund administered by EPRC would play an
important role in building capacity within the center and within the agricultural sector of Uganda.
The Agricultural Policy Research Fund
8.    Objectives. The aim of the APRF would be to foster agricultural policy related research
and analytical skill building, and to contribute towards greater understanding of agricultural
policy-related issues among a wide spectrum of sector stakeholders. Provided the subject is
within the framework of agreed priority areas, it is proposed that any qualified individual,
institution or agency, could apply for grant assistance from the APRF to finance research and
analysis which would enhance knowledge and skills in agricultural policy formulation. A further
aim would be to foster debate and analysis on issues related to agricultural policy and strategic
planning. Through the operation of the APRF, EPRC would create a forum for discussing
agricultural policy issues and prioritizing policy-related research. The Fund would be
administered through the EPRC on a matching grant basis under an agreement with MAAIF,
which would, among other things, specify the procedures and the criteria to be used for
approving grants.
9.    National Agricultural Policy Forum. As part of the process of initiating the Fund,
EPRC would convene a National Agricultural Policy Forum. This one day forum would
henceforth be held annually. The aim of the forum would be two-fold. First, to build consensus
on what are the priority policy and strategic issues of the day. Second, to promote debate and
interest among a wide range of agricultural stakeholders including farmers. All interested
stakeholders would be invited to participate. In consultation with a small number of key
participants, including MAAIF, EPRC would select 4-5 priority issues for discussion. They
would invite speakers to briefly introduce each subject, which would then be open for discussion
among the participants. A plenary session would allow stakeholders to raise any agricultural
policy-related issue, which they consider should be further examined. Arising from the forum,
EPRC would present its recommendations to the Agricultural Policy Sub-Committee, its Board
of Management and seek the committee's agreement on broad areas and topics considered
priorities for further research and analysis. In preparation for the annual policy forum,
participants would be encouraged to conduct their own in-house policy and strategy forum. This
would, to the extent possible, give some guidance to the participants and allow a focus on those
issues which are of primary concern to individual stakeholders.
10.   These priority issues arising from the forum would be divided into those areas considered
suitable for assistance from the two windows of the APRF, the contestable research window and
the capacity building window. The contestable research proposals would be advertised for
bidding. Capacity building topics would also be advertised and proposals invited. Proposals for



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
assistance from the capacity building window would ordinarily be confined to the priority areas.
However, topics and issues outside of these areas could be considered on an exceptional basis
provided they always meet the agreed criteria.
11.   APRF Financing Windows. The APRF would be comprised of two windows. The first,
the contestable window, would be used to fund comparatively high level policy-related research
on a contestable basis. EPRC would, by way of public advertisement, invite qualified Ugandan
institutions, firms or individuals to bid for conducting research on a priority agricultural policy-
related topic or issue. The analysis would be more sophisticated and longer term. Accordingly,
an applicant's experience and qualifications would be of a higher standard. The research would
also qualify for larger grants from the APRF, a maximum of US$ 100,000 in each case.
12.   The second window, the capacity building window, would be used to finance less
sophisticated analyses requiring lower level input and time. A much wider participation would
be encouraged. Any individual or group of individuals could make a proposal to EPRC for
assistance from the fund, provided always that the subject fell within the general priorities agreed
upon by the stakeholders' forum (see below). The applicants would, in most cases, be less
qualified and experienced. Once a proposal has been broadly accepted, EPRC would, if
necessary, provide guidance to the applicant(s) on how to carry out the work and present it.
Topics to be analyzed would be within the broad bounds of priority areas agreed upon at the
annual agricultural policy forum to be held at the beginning of each year. The preparation of
position papers on an issue of the day would be an example of the type of work to be assisted.
Such papers would require considerable background reading, some type of analysis, and would
lead to some preliminary findings and recommendations. More detailed and in-depth research
may be called for as a result of this preliminary work. Such research could be advertised for
funding from the contestable window. The capacity building window would be one way of
EPRC broadening its role in providing technical assistance, guidance and advice to less
experienced and qualified applicants. The grant from this window would not exceed US$15,000.
13.   The Administration of the APRF. The administration of the APRF would be carried out
by the EPRC on the basis of a contractual agreement with MAAIF. The agreement would, among
other things, specify the criteria to be used for evaluating research proposals and the
administration charge to be made by EPRC. Within EPRC, the APRF would be administered by
a special Agricultural Policy sub-Committee of the Board of Management. The committee would
be chaired by the Director EPRC and would be comprised of one representative each from
MAAIF (Commissioner for Planning), the Agricultural Secretariat of APC, NARO, Makerere
University, MFEP, MTI, the Uganda Farmers' Association, MNR and Lands, a private sector
agri-business institution, and an appropriate parastatal or Board.
14.   EPRC would be fully responsible for the administration, control and disbursement of the
Fund. It would use its existing procedures for monitoring and supervising the progress of
research activities. Funds would be disbursed to researchers only against satisfactory
performance in accordance with an agreed timetable and action plan. A suitably qualified private
sector auditor would be appointed by EPRC to audit the APRF annually. The auditors would



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
give an opinion as to whether or not the funds have been used in accordance with the APRF
objectives and the agreement between MAAIF and the EPRC.
15.   Role of the Agricultural Policy Subcommittee. The committee would publicize the
availability of the APRF and its objectives; by way of public notice and other appropriate means,
invite research proposals and grant applications from qualified individuals and institutions;
where appropriate, arrange for independent referees and/or supervisors; evaluate the proposals in
terms of the fund objectives; agree on the terms of reference including the objectives of approved
research programs. These would include the time-bound action plan and progress reporting
procedures, the methodologies to be employed, supervision the work; decide the amount of the
grant to be made from the APRF; monitor progress of the research; evaluate the final report
quality with respect to the original objectives and the extent to which it contributes towards
deepening understanding of agricultural policy issues. The sub-committee would, with the
assistance of EPRC and MAAIF, develop the procedures and the forrnat for making applications
for grant assistance.
16.   The committee would be liberal in its interpretation of what constitutes research
especially for work to be financed from the capacity building window. The work would have a
practical orientation rather than be confined to largely academic-like exercises. Gaining
experience, enhancing analytical skills and knowledge, and deepening understanding of policy-
related issues over a wide spectrum of sub-sector stakeholders, especially those with
comparatively weak and inexperienced capacity, would be key objectives.
17.   EPRC would be free to bid for contestable research. In such cases and to avoid conflict of
interest, the chairperson and any other member of the agricultural sub-committee associated with
EPRC would be excluded from the sub-committee deliberations. The same principle would apply
to any other member of the agricultural sub-committee having some interest in the outcome of
the bid evaluation and decision-making procedure.
18.   Criteria For Evaluating Applications For Assistance. The criteria to be used for
evaluating proposals for research assistance would be developed by MAAIF and EPRC and
provided to GOU and IDA for final approval. These criteria could include, but not be limited to:
*  the relevance of the subject to priority agricultural policy issues (interpreted in the
broadest sense);
*  the contribution it would make towards capacity building within the institution (if
applicable), and for the individual researcher(s); the need of both the concerned
institution and individual(s) for analytical capacity building in the respective field
would be considered;
*  the analytical soundness of the proposal (the standard demanded would not be unduly
high). The potential for building capacity and developing skills among the
applicant(s) would be considered;



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
*  the qualifications and experience of the institution or individuals to carry out such
research and analysis;
*  the amount of funds to be provided by the applicant, if any. The capacity of the
applicants to contribute to costs would be considered. Using the Fund to further
capacity building over a wide spectrum of sector stakeholders would call for some
contribution from the applicants in most, but not all cases. Revenue-earning
institutions and profit-making organizations or businesses would be the most likely
candidates for such contributions. Provided all other criteria were equal, priority for
grants would be given to those applicants able to contribute towards the research cost;
*  the likely practical application of the research when completed. Purely academic
studies would be avoided. The work would, in almost every case, have some
practical application or relevance to the issues of the day;
* the number and amount of assistance previously granted to the applicant.
Comparatively large numbers of or repeated applications from one institution or
individual(s) would be avoided although deepening and follow-up research by the
same applicant would not be excluded; the track record in terms of quality, timeliness
and practical relevance of past work of previous applicants would be considered;
- any other criteria which the committee may, from time to time, develop provided
always that the broad aims of the Fund are being pursued.
19.   All research proposals would include details of how the applicant would publish the
findings and recommendations arising from the analyses.
Initiation of the APRF
20.   Once the ASMP is approved and the Memorandum of Understanding with MAAIF
completed, EPRC would prepare a small (no more than two-page) handout on the aims and
administration of the APRF. This would, inter alia, briefly state the purpose of the fund, how
the funds could be accessed, who could apply and how, and the principal criteria to be used for
making grants. The handout would be circulated widely among as many stakeholders as
possible. These would include all of the District Administrations. In addition, the existence and
purpose of the fund would also be advertised in national newspapers.
Research and Policy Decision-Maker Linkages
21.   To the extent possible and where applicable, the findings and recommendations of the
APRF research and analysis would be translated into actions to be considered and made
operational by policy decision-makers. A small number of studies on such issues would be
conducted by consultants recruited under TORs satisfactory to EPRC and MAAIF. These
studies would focus on how the research recommendations would be translated into policy-
related actions. The cost incurred for this purpose would be reimbursed from the APRF account
following receipt of no objection from ASMP PC.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Administration Costs of the APRF
22.   The broad costs of administration would be included in the MOU between MAAIF and
EPRC. EPRC would be paid a commission to cover overhead costs equivalent to twelve percent
of the total amount granted from the fund in any one year, estimated to be about US$125,000.
over five years. In addition, EPRC would be reimbursed for specified direct costs incurred in
administering the fund. These would include the costs of the annual policy forum, any other
seminars considered to be a part of the APRF function, the policy framework consultancies,
communications (fax, telephone, etc.), printing, postage, and accounting, audits and any direct
legal fees. EPRC would disburse the research grants directly from a special account opened with
a bank (for this purpose), choice of said bank being satisfactory to both MAAIF and to IDA.
Reimbursement of expenses and payment of the commission would be made to EPRC directly
from this account. All such payments, however, would first be presented to the ASMP project
officer or project coordinator who would give a "no objection" to EPRC being reimbursed.
Claims would be fully supported by appropriate documentation. In any event, these total
reimbursable costs, excluding the overhead commission and the cost of consultancies, would not
exceed US$5,000 in any one year without the prior agreement of the ASMP management.
Reporting
23.   At the beginning of each year, EPRC would prepare an APRF operational budget and
work plan. The budget and work plan would be reviewed with the ASMP project task manager.
EPRC would provide a quarterly financial report detailing all expenditure incurred to date, and a
comparison with the budget for the period and for the year. Each financial report would be
accompanied by a brief operational report outlining the progress or otherwise to date, what
actions had been taken in the past quarter and what was proposed for the next quarter. The report
would also discuss any operational issues which may have arisen, and make a recommendation
on how these should be resolved.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Background
1.    The Government of Uganda (GOU), UNDP, IDA and other donors have agreed, in
principle, to adopt a strategic approach rather than a project approach, to development. 1 The
purpose of this annex is to summarize the fundamental characteristics of the strategic program
approach and to link requirements for the preparation of such a program to IDA financing by the
proposed ASMP.
Characteristics of Strategic Program Approach
2.    The Strategic program approach emphasizes "doing the right things," rather than merely
doing things right. Experience in many countries has shown that, donors often follow their own
individual development priorities when recipient country Governments do not establish a
prioritized development framework. Therefore, an important objective of the ASMP is to
improve the capacity of Government (especially the MAAIF) to prepare and manage a prioritized
agriculture sector strategy for implementation beginning in 1998.
The main principles of the sector program approach are:
*  Sector or sub-sector-wide scope to ensure national impact of the programs/activities;2
*  A sector program approach must be based on a clear sector strategy and policy
framework;
*  preparation of the sectoral programs by central Government and other national and
local stakeholders;
*  support by all donors active in the sector;
* agreement among all donors and Government to follow, to the extent possible,
common implementation arrangements (e.g., procurement, reporting) in order to
simplify and rationalize execution, and
*  minimal use of long-term foreign consultants to ensure sustainability (i.e., local
capacity in Uganda should be relied upon for implementation of the priority
programs.
Refer to the report of the Fourth UNDP Country Program for Uganda Mid-Term Review, 1992-1996, March 6,
1995.
2 Sector is defined as a coherent set of activities, which need to be looked at together to make a meaningful
assessment, and it must cover all sector expenditures, both current and capital.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
3.    Sector-Wide Scope. All relevant policies, programs and projects within the agriculture
sector need to be included. However, coverage within the priority programs need not include
every single activity in the sector. Rather, the approach requires that focus be placed on the most
significant sub-sectors; e.g., agriculture, livestock, and fisheries extension, research, animal
health, and conservation of fisheries (which, together, account for the overwhelming majority of
Government resources in the agriculture sector). This implies that the Government of Uganda as
a whole, should be defining a comprehensive and systematic approach to the solution of priority
problems and applying it consistently throughout the sector.
4.    Clear Sector Strategy and Policy Framework. The starting point for the preparation of
any program approach is the definition of a sector policy framework. It is absolutely necessary
that such a policy framework is prepared under Governnent leadership, and that it be explicitly
endorsed at the highest levels of Government (both executive and legislative authorities).
Although the various elements of the policy framework cannot be specified in this Annex, it is
absolutely essential that it includes a clear statement on the respective roles of the public and
private sectors and clear specification of priority objectives within the sector. Only within that
context will it be possible to identify priority programs to be included within the strategic
program framework so as to give practical effect to the achievement of those objectives. Further,
those priority programs would henceforth provide the primary (if not only) basis for budgetary
support by Central and local Governments to the agriculture sector.
5.    Ugandan Stakeholders Responsible for Preparation. Ugandan stakeholders (both
public and private sector, including relevant commercial organizations and NGOs in the sector)
must be in charge of preparing the sector program under the leadership of GOU. There is
absolutely no substitute for this local ownership of the agriculture sector strategy. Donors might
be asked to support/assist, but primary reliance on them or external consultants can not substitute
for GOU-led policy formulation and preparation. Key to this approach is early consultation with
and involvement of important stakeholders outside of Government. It is not sufficient for the
Government to formulate a policy framework and then circulate a draft for comments. Rather,
the Government would need to create a structure for the determination of policies in which
private sector representatives, direct clients of GOU's agricultural services, and Government
officials work together to develop a policy framework consistent with an initial GOU concept
paper on the sector.
6.    Participation of All Donors Active in the Sector. The strategic program approach is
only viable if all donors participate in the same program, thus avoiding parallel and often
contradictory donor-driven projects and designs. Although until very recently, donors, with the
compliance of many recipient Governments internationally, have focused on the ad hoc project
approach, it has become increasingly evident that such an approach is seldom sustainable and
reduces recipient Governments' control over their overall development program (i.e., it has been
said that "instead of thirty years of development, we have witnessed five years of development
six times). Thus, an increasing number of donors are advocating the adoption of the sector



Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
program approach. Nevertheless, the strategic program approach would place a special
responsibility on the GOU which must be acknowledged; i.e., the Government will need the
discipline to say to donors: "Here is our program for the agriculture sector in Uganda; if you
wish to help us implement it, you are most welcome; if you wish to do something different, we
regret that you are not welcome in this sector in Uganda." The GOU will need to take the lead in
"donor" coordination in this regard by not relying on any one donor to take the lead and by the
Government itself chairing all "donor" meetings with respect to the agriculture sector. Further,
as with the definition of the "sector," the definition of "all" donors needs to be approached
flexibly; it is probably sufficient if all donors accounting for approximately 80 percent of
external assistance to the agriculture sector are included.
7.    Common Implementation Arrangements. The ultimate objective must be that all
donors will eventually accept the same arrangements for accounting, budgeting, procurement,
progress reporting, and so forth. This, however, is likely to be the most difficult agreement to
achieve in the initial years of strategic program implementation in Uganda. This is especially
likely to be the case with respect to financial control and reporting systems.
8.    Minimal Use of Resident Expatriate Consultants. A major point underlying the
strategic sector approach is that it should be tailored to the institutional capacity of Uganda to
largely implement itself. Such an approach does not, obviously, preclude short-term assistance
by expatriates when specialized needs arise. However, there should be no significant reliance on
expatriates as residential staff.
9.    A strategic program approach is not easier to implement than a project approach; its
rationale is improved efficiency and effectiveness rather than lesser degrees of effort and
capacity. The GOU has already met one of the three broad capacity areas required; i.e., it has
indicated its willingness to take the lead role and to provide discipline to heretofore ad hoc
initiatives by various donors. However, agriculture sector organizations do not yet have fully
adequate capacity to efficiently and effectively manage projects (especially in terms of financial
management and procurement) and, as has already been indicated, it does not yet have a well-
developed and articulated strategy for the agriculture sector which clearly specifies priority
objectives and programs. Further improvement will be necessary in these two areas.
Support for Sector Investment Program
10.   Support for preparation of an Agriculture Sector Program would be implemented in two
stages. The first stage (the first eight months of Year 1) be devoted to the development of a
comprehensive Agriculture Sector Development Strategy with a primary emphasis on identifying
and justifying a limited number of priority programs. The second stage be devoted to: (a) the more
detailed design of the limited number of priority programs; (b) incremental reorganization of
MAAIF (and, if necessary, of other key stakeholder organizations) so as to conform with the
efficient and effective management of those priority programs in a targeted manner, and



Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
(c) negotiation and agreement between the Government and interested donors with respect to the
program approach.
11.   Stage 1: Strategy Formulation. GOU will form a task force consisting of relevant
Government officials, university staff, and representatives of NGOs active in rural areas and
private sector agricultural clients. This task force will be responsible for identifying priority
objectives for the sector. In addition, working groups responsible to the taskforce will each focus
on a priority topic to be included in the strategy paper.
12.   The topics could, among other things, address:
*  Role of agriculture, animal industries, and fisheries in the economy;
*  Respective roles of the public and private sectors in agriculture, animal industries, and
fisheries;
* Within the public sector, respective roles of central Government entities and district-
level RCs regarding agriculture, animal industries, and fisheries and mutually
supporting organizational links among them;
*  Comparison of current distribution of GOU's expenditures in the sector with preferred
expenditures related to priorities identified in the Policy Framework prepared by the
Task Force;
*  The necessary elements of an enabling environment to increase private sector
investment and contributions to GDP in the agriculture sector, and
*  Regulatory role of public institutions in the agriculture sector to ensure the public
good and conservation of the environment on a sustainable basis.
13.   Stage I would be complete only following finalization of the Strategy Policy Paper,
endorsement by MFEP, MAAIF, and district-level RCs, and ratification by GOU's Cabinet.
14.   Stage 2: Organizational Restructuring and Program Design. Following ratification
of the Strategy Policy Paper, Stage 2 activities focus on the detailed design of a limited number
ofpriority programs to give practical effect to Uganda's agriculture sector strategy and ensure
full cooperation of key donors in support of those priority programs. The ASMP would finance the
preparation of the Agriculture Sector Investment Program (ASIP) and the process would involve
the following steps (with approximate timing indicated):
*  GOU prepares a draft ASIP Concept Paper (based on the approved Strategy Policy
Paper) which outlines the objectives, ground rules and preparation methodology, and
discussions with key donors;
* New task force and subordinate working groups are formed, chairpersons and staff are
appointed, and consultants are employed to undertake the details of preparation;
*  Time-bound work-plan for completion of preparation of ASIP is prepared;
*  Key donors briefed monthly on progress of preparation;



Annex S
Page 5 of 5
*  Communication of the main features of ASIP to potential implementors and clients
within both the public and private sectors throughout Uganda and the solicitation of
their comments and suggestions;
* Pre-appraisal of the proposed ASIP jointly by all key donors expected to participate in
financing it, revision of preliminary preparation documents by taskforce/working
groups, and final joint appraisal by donors; and
* Conducting of Implementation Workshop for review and finalization of ASIP,
formulation of supervision plan linked to GOU's budget cycle, and final negotiations
with, and approvals by, all key Donors.
15.  In parallel with the process outlined above, MAAIF and Agricultural Department of
Districts would undertake a further incremental restructuring so that its organizational
arrangements, operational systems and procedures, and staffing pattems and policies are directly
consistent with the implementation of the ASIP.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
District Planning Capacity Building
Background
1.    This component would introduce micro-level agricultural sector planning within the
districts as a means of providing strategic direction to agricultural and rural development, thereby
promoting effective agricultural growth and improving the well being of rural families. It aims
to create district and below-district level capacity to plan and implement agricultural and rural
development in accordance with community priorities. Planning in this manner would be more
responsive to the needs and aspirations of local communities.
2.    Under decentralization, District agricultural and rural development planning is the
responsibility of elected Local Councils (LC 1-5) and through them, local communities. Under
ASMP, farmer groups would prepare their own development plans in accordance with the
community priorities and resources. Planning, in this way, is an effective mechanism for
developing a more participatory and responsive system of agricultural and rural development.
The group represents the medium as well as the instrument, for supporting agricultural and rural
development programs. To ensure suitability to local needs and constraints, planning under such
a system should fully involve District government field-level technical staff together with
farmers and other relevant stakeholders.
3.    The planning system to be introduced in the districts under ASMP differs from the
traditional concept of planning involving targets for every activity. Under the traditional system,
government control is pervasive including the provision of inputs, the procurement of key cash
crops, and the determination of prices and markets. National ministries control local staff and
the allocation of resources through the budget. In a decentralized, competitive, market-driven
economy, the govermnent has neither the mandate nor the means to control in this manner.
Farmers are free to plant what they want, buy inputs from their place of choice and sell when and
where they desire. Moreover, communities decide on their own priorities rather than what the
government perceives should be their priorities. Planning under the new economic and
decentralized environment in Uganda will, therefore, facilitate the identification and exploitation
of priority development opportunities including the provision of support services, as perceived
by the local communities.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
4.    Before decentralization, no structure or practices existed for preparing micro level plans
with inter-sectoral linkages at the district and community levels. Annual work plans and
budgetary outlays for districts were finalized by the central line ministries and agencies as part of
their sectoral plans. So far, under the decentralized system almost none of the districts have
prepared an agricultural and rural development plan.
The District Planning Capacity Building
5.    The project will assist districts to develop planning capacity through: (a) training of
individuals and groups, and (b) supporting plan formulation including the preparation of
guidelines for agricultural development planning. The focus will be on participatory planning at
the community (LC-l) level with the full participation of district planning staff, LC office
bearers and community members. The component will be implemented in two phases. The first
phase will be the preparation of Guidelines for Preparing District Agricultural Development
Plans. The second phase will be the actual plan preparation process to be carried out in all 39
districts.
6.    The successful introduction of a facilitative approach to planning at all levels within the
districts would depend largely on the scope, relevance and quality of training. Training
recipients would include farmer groups, members of LCs (1-5), staff of the district production
and marketing departments, and other stakeholders such as NGOs that provide support to the
agricultural sector. The actual content of the training programs would vary according to the
needs and level of individuals and groups. Broad areas of training could include but not be
limited to, the participatory planning process, aims and objectives, the broad policy and strategy
framework, identifying needs and opportunities, defining constraints, determining priorities,
matching available resources with needs, inter-sectoral linkages, community responsibility and
organization for effective maintenance of infrastructure, estimating costs, phasing and action
plans for implementation, financial planming and management including simple record and
bookkeeping, and so on. Gender sensitization and managing group participation will also be
addressed.
7.    Support for district plan formulation will include the development of guidelines and
formats in consultation with district officials and LCs, and technical and financial support for the
plan preparation. Preparation of the guidelines will be assisted by a consulting team from the
MAAIF Agricultural Planning Department, and including a representative from the Ministry of
Local Government. Terms of reference for the Guideline preparation team are attached. Funds
will be included for the procurement of local technical consultants as required. Technical and
planning guidance will be provided largely through the MAAIF Agricultural Planning
Department. The latter will establish a district liaison desk to facilitate the provision of support
for district planning. Districts will, however, be free to seek plan preparation assistance from
other suitably qualified individuals or institutions.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Organization and Implementation
8.    The preparation of the District agricultural development plan will be carried out under the
overall supervision of the District Executive Secretary. The District Development Committee,
Production and Marketing Department and other departments, the Agriculture and Production
Committee of LCs at various levels, and district agricultural extension staff will participate in the
preparation, review and approval of the plan at their respective level. At the district level, after
approval of the District Production and Marketing Committee, the plan will be reviewed by the
District Development Committee (DDC) before being submitted to the Local Council (LC-5) for
final approval. Approved plans will be forwarded to MAAIF, MFEP and MOLG headquarters
for information. The headquarters' officials' role will be to ensure that ihe strategic direction of
the plan conforms with overall government policy and strategic priorities.
9.    A key objective of the preparation process will be to avoid too much detail and precision.
A Participatory Rural Appraisal approach will be used. This involves an initial briefing of the
respective RC and the community with respect to the aims and objectives of the planning
exercise. Said approach will be followed by the initial training of the communities and officials
as briefly described above. Following these two phases, the communities will then discuss
among themselves what they consider their priority infrastructure and service would need. They
will also collect the information and data required by the planning team. The third phase would
be the participatory visit by the district planning team. This phase could take two or three days
as the process of full discussion and participation by the community is put into practice.
Following these discussions, the district team will prepare a draft plan for the community, which
will be followed by a further participatory review with the community. The final plan, once
approved by the RC will be presented to the District Administration as indicated above.
10.   Training will be provided by district officials and by the MAAIF APD planning team.
Training at all levels of district administration will also be supported under the Institutional
Building Capacity Project being financed by GOU and IDA. Close cooperation and liaison
would be required between the respective project coordinators within MAAIF and MPS of the
ASMP and the ICBP.
Linkages
11.   Two types of linkages would be ensured through this process. First, inter sectoral
linkages, especially at the local level, will be an integral part of the planning process. Special
attention should be given to rural infrastructure, small rural enterprise development and social
infrastructure, and how other sectoral plans and programs would reinforce the agricultural
priorities. Second, district plans will provide the basis and feedback for national plans. National
policies and strategies, priorities and programs will influence district plan content through public
sector initiatives and through the macroeconomic and sectoral policy framework. A clear
definition of sectoral strategic priorities will be a prerequisite for guiding the preparation of the
district plans. Moreover, early preparation of District agricultural plans would be a critical part
of the proposed Sector Invest Program (SIP) preparation discussed in Annex 5. A SIP that uses



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
the deliberations of communities at the lowest level as its major input is more likely to
successfully achieve its objectives.
Elements of District Agricultural Plans
12.   A key objective of the planning process will be to progressively build up a broad data
base on district and community resources (human, physical), social profile, farming systems,
production constraints and potential, and so on. Care should be taken to ensure the process does
not become too rigid and bureaucratic. Since the data and information base in most districts is
weak, the initial plans will be prepared using largely rapid rural appraisal techniques to broadly
identify resources, constraints, opportunities and development priorities. In broad terms, the
process would involve compiling an inventory by community of: physical (soils, topography,
water, climate) and human (farm families, labor, skills, level of education) resources, main
farming systems, production indicators by main crop and enterprise, social and economic
infrastructure, food and nutrition balances, local comparative advantages for crop, livestock or
other commodities, main social and economic (infrastructure, production) constraints and needs,
priority plans for alleviating constraints and developing human and productive potential and
linkages with other sector development.
13.   When the community priorities (including the estimated costs and financing thereof) have
been agreed upon, a key priority will be to prepare an action plan for implementation. The action
plan should, among other things, designate responsibilities among community members and
groups, the resources required and the approximate timing for completion of implementation.



Anx 7
Page 1 of 7
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Result-Oriented Management
Background
1.    The Government of Uganda has embarked on a far-reaching economic reform program,
of which Civil Service Reform (CSR) is an integral part. The broad goals of the CSR are to
improve the efficiency, effectiveness and responsiveness of governance, to enhance the role of
the private sector as the primary agent for promoting economic development, and to decentralize
responsibility for providing core services and fostering economic development to local
government (districts). The introduction of Result-Oriented Management systems into the civil
service and into district management is an integral part of the CSR program.
2.    The Government of Uganda (GOU) plans to introduce Result-Oriented Management
(ROM) principles into the civil service and into district management through the budget
preparation cycle for the 1996/97 fiscal year. This would coincide with the startup of the IDA
supported Institutional Capacity Building Project (ICBP) and would build on the institutional
development process implemented under a number of donor supported projects during the last
few years. It is planned to use MAAIF as one of the pilot ministries for the full introduction of
ROM. This process, to be supported under the proposed ASMP, would be done in close
cooperation with the Ministry of Public Service and the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, and with the management of the ICBP. This annex discusses some of the implications
for MAAIF and proposes how the transition might be successfully accomplished.
MAAIF - A Changed Role and New Mission
3.    The Redefined Role of MAAIF. Since the central policy of GOU would be to focus on
creating the economic framnework conducive to enabling the private sector to promote growth,
and for transferring responsibility for providing most government services to the district
administrations, the role and functions of MAAIF headquarters would have changed
dramatically. The Ministry would no longer be responsible for providing many services and
carrying out a number of supply and production activities. Instead, its chief role would be to now
focus first on agricultural sector policy formulation and strategic planning, second, on providing
technical guidance and backup for district agricultural services, and third, carrying out regulatory
responsibilities. It is from this role and these three main responsibilities that the structure of the
Ministry should be derived.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
4.    A MAAIF Mission for The Future. To meet the needs of Uganda in the twenty-first
century, the mission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries would be to
promote subsectors within agriculture which would make the maximum contribution to the
economic, social and environmental well-being of the economy and the people of Uganda. The
three broad goals and the strategic priorities implied in such a mission would be: first, to
increase the value added to agricultural output, thereby targeting an increase in rural family
incomes and well-being; second, to maximize high quality, competitive exports; and third, to
expand the contribution of agriculture to employment and its base as a source of raw material for
industries.
5.    Mission-Driven Management for MAAIF. The definition of the MAAIF mission stems
from stated government agricultural policies, goals and priorities. The mission statement is what
should drive the entire organization. The mission focuses on the purpose of the organization, on
what is important. It sets the organizational goals which guide operational systems, practices and
values, and provides the framework in which work units and individuals decide what they should
or should not be doing. The annual budget should be derived from an analysis of the financial
resources needed to implement programs which focus on the strategic priorities, which, in turn,
have been derived from the mission and goals of the organization. Budget systems must be
married to assessable performance indicators, which measure the degree to which the results of
implementing the strategies are achieved.
6.    Result-Oriented Management for MAAIF. Through ROM, the degree of performance
of the Ministry and of individual staff would be assessed on the basis of selected indicators that
measure the effectiveness of the services performed. ROM would clarify occupational goals and
objectives at each level: the ministry as a whole, the directorate, the department, the respective
work units and ultimately, the individual, and thereby provide the basis against which to measure
organizational and individual performance. An integral part of this management system is an
evaluation system which rewards good performers and penalizes inefficient and non-responsive
behavior. Successful adoption and implementation of this management technique requires that
managers have full control over the disposition and use of their financial and human resources
within the framework of agreed priority programs, and agreed key result areas. Performance is
the key to this mission driven system. Performance is guided by the priorities and objectives of
the respective work unit. This requires considerable effort in defining precisely how
performance indicators are to be measured. They can be quantitative (outputs) and qualitative
(outcome). The quality of performance is more difficult to measure, and independent verification
should be undertaken.
7.    MAAIF ROM in Practice. The first step in moving to ROM would be for the
Government, through the Minister, to clearly define its policies, goals, strategies and priorities
for agriculture. These should be framed within a medium term (three year) time horizon. Within
this framework, the Government would set out the respective priorities each year. Using the
Government's policy and goals as the guiding framework, the next step would be for MAAIF to
clearly define its mission and strategies. MAAIF would then identify priority programs designed
to implement the strategies. The third step would be to develop financial and management rules
and budget systems that would allow the organization, the respective work units and individuals



Page 3 of 7
to pursue the stated mission. Finally, the institution needs to develop a flexible approach to
organizational arrangements which facilitate performance and systems that support the
implementation of the priority programs. Both MAAIF and MPS need to be flexible about
changing the existing structure in a way that does not adequately reflect the new role of the
ministry.
8.    New Organizational Structure. As stated in an earlier paragraph, the role of MAAIF
would focus on agricultural sector policy formulation, monitoring of policy impact and programs
and strategic planning; providing high level technical guidance and backup for districts; and
carrying out regulatory responsibilities. The present organization does not take into account the
new role and mission of MAAIF. This is because it was designed before the decentralization
program was conceived. As a consequence, it has limited relevance to the requirements of a
decentralized system of development administration, and makes a limited contribution to the new
mission and role of MAAIF. The same structure is also the cause for the operational conflict
among units in the ministry, and for dissipation of the Government's effort to improve sector
performance.
9.    Given the new role and mission of MAAIF, the organization of the ministry should be
designed along the line of the three major roles: (a) main technical directorate that supports
districts in the introduction and dissemination of agricultural technology, and provides high level
technical advice and support wherever it is needed; (b) a regulatory services directorate that
formulates and implements the regulatory framework for the sector, and (c) a directorate for
agricultural policy and planning that addresses agriculture sector policy issues, strategic planning
and monitoring of policies and programs.
10.   New Budget System. The annual budget derives from the resources needed to
implement the mission strategies and to achieve the annual objectives. But the way in which the
budget is presented and controlled would be radically changed over time. Ultimately, the line
item system would be eliminated and work units should be able to carry over any savings they
make to supplement the next year's budget on the basis of a formula set by the Treasury.
Moreover, work units should be able to retain earnings (cost recovery) they make as a
contribution towards their budget within the bounds of Treasury guidelines (money or cash
would actually be credited to the MAAIF and work unit account rather than be handled
physically by staff). Managers would, within defined govermnent guidelines and in accordance
with a transparent evaluation system, be free to reward individuals or preferably work units, for
good performance. Equally important, sanctions would be imposed for poor performance. But
performance would be based on real assessable indicators which have been agreed upon at the
beginning of the year.
11.   This system would encourage savings and cost recovery. It would also work toward
reducing or even eliminating expenditure for the sake of it (the spend it or lose it syndrome).
Moreover, since managers and staff know they can benefit from good financial performance
linked to results, it would discourage undue investment in overheads such as large numbers of
inefficiently used vehicles.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7
12.   Annual Performance Agreements. An integral part of such a system within MAAIF
would be a series of annual performance agreements between the Minister and the PS, and
between the PS and his/her respective managers. The latter would also complete agreements with
their respective work unit leaders or managers, but in any event, they would be required to agree
with their key staff on the priority activities and work programs for the year. The purpose of the
performance agreement is to assist the PS to achieve the objectives of the Minister and the
Government by defining what the Minister expects of the PS. The agreement would have two
parts. First, it would set out the Government's objectives and the Minister's expectations of the
PS, and provides a basis for the public service commissioner's review of the PS's performance
with particular reference to linking the individual's performance to the Government's strategic
direction.
13.   The agreement lists the Governtnent's strategic priorities for the agricultural sector, in
general, and for MAAIF, in particular. These are a brief list of broad priorities. It also includes
the key result areas, (5-7), for the ministry in relation to the implementation of the strategic
priorities. While they may be broadly stated, key result areas must also have a clear purpose and
intent, and must be assessable. Among other things, reporting procedures including the broad
content of reports and their timing, form an integral part of the agreement.
14.   The second part of the agreement sets out the financial resources (the budget) which the
Government would allocate to the PS to ensure the agreement is carried out. The PS then has the
authority to manage these resources as he/she sees fit in accordance with the performance
agreement and the key result areas which have been agreed upon with the Minister (this includes
moving funds from one expenditure category to another). Financial accountability and
performance revolve around achievement of results. The emphasis is on performance audit after
the fact rather than financial pre-audit prior to action. Agreed standards in respect of financial
management and reporting were governed by a set of Treasury guidelines.
15.   All of these systems would take time to develop and perfect. It would, in practice, be a
step-by-step process. To the extent possible and to lessen the possibility of disruption, the
process would try to build upon the old systems, improving, adapting and strengthening them to
achieve the goals of ROM. For a limited period, it is likely that some new systems would
operate in parallel with the old systems as these are progressively phased out.
16.   ROM - The Preparation and the Transition. The transition to this management
system of accountability and performance, would require considerable training and adjustment
by all individuals and work units. Designing the systems and training managers and staff could
extend over a two year period. It is proposed that international consultants experienced with the
preparation for and the practice of, ROM, be hired to assist MAAIF prepare for the transition.
The consultants would be responsible for the overall design of the respective training,
information and staff sensitization programs.
17.   The MAAIF Task Force would supervise the ROM process but would be assisted by one
senior person each from MPS and MFEP. Moreover, MAAIF would designate the Under
Secretary for Finance and Administration to be chair person of the Task Force and to be



Annex 7
Page 5 of 7
responsible for organizing the recruitment of the consultants' firm, and would then work jointly
with the ROM consultants, and MFEP and MPS counterparts throughout the transition period.
18.   It is also proposed that two study tours be made to countries (Malaysia, New Zealand)
where this type of management is being practiced by the civil service. The first tour should be
for senior managers (say 5 at PS level) from agriculture, public service, finance, local
government and the Prime Minister's office. The second tour should include operational
managers (5-6) from the same ministries, and the task managers of the Institutional Capacity
Building Project, Ministry of Public Service, and of the ASMP.
19.   The magnitude of changes in staff attitude called for by the application of ROM, is such
that a number would be unable to make the necessary transition. An integral part of the process,
therefore, would be to provide for appropriate redundancy packages. In the long run, it is more
efficient to "buy" these persons out with attractive packages rather than retain them in positions
where they can continually obstruct the process.
The Risks
20.   The biggest risk to the successful adoption of ROM would be the resistance from
entrenched interests within the organization and from those (outside of the ministry) who would
see an erosion of their power as a consequence of the changes. Uncertainty and hence insecurity
arising in individuals as a consequence of change, also would pose a risk. These risks could be
minimized through thorough training and sensitization, and through a regular and credible
information campaign which keep staff fully informed of what is involved and what is
happening. Insecurity could also be minimized by adopting a transparent system of annual staff
performance evaluation. This needs to be based on assessable indicators. Staff also need to be
sure that good performance would be rewarded. Managers need to have authority to use their
discretion within approved limits, on the reward levels for deserving staff.
21.   A second major risk would be corruption or the fear of corruption arising from affording
managers considerable freedom over the use and disposition of funds and staff. The existing
bureaucratic, inflexible system which focuses on control and rules, has evolved largely through
the perceived need to ensure full accountability and thereby minimize corruption. The system
has largely failed on both counts. Of even more importance, however, the system minimizes
achievement, discourages innovation and seldom evaluates results. The priority is on doing
things right rather than doing the right things. The real purpose and goal of, in this case, the
ministry, is lost in a sea of rules and red tape.
22.   The cost of totally eliminating corruption would far outweigh the benefits both in money
saved and benefits foregone. The possibility of corruption would, however, be minimized by
measuring results and having assessable performance indicators both financial and operational.
Independent external auditing and verification of performance need to be a key feature. Also,
regular flows of quality information using a limited number of key financial indicators and good
accounting also tend to reduce wrong doing. Moreover, accountable managers should be
carefully selected on the basis of their integrity and ability rather than because of their seniority.



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7
Since ROM judges managerial performance according to results achieved, poor management
would quickly be revealed.
23.   A third area of risk would be the inability of managers to grasp the opportunities and the
challenges of ROM with its greater responsibility and accountability for performance. Some
managers may not be prepared to be innovative and flexible. Fear of doing the wrong thing can
be very real for those long accustomed to the existing rigid civil service rules and the
comparative security they imply. These risks could be minimized by strong leadership which
clearly signal that flexibility and innovation would be required. Moreover, in the initial stages,
managers need to be tolerant of mistakes being made. They also need to encourage staff to use
their initiative and to seek new ways of achieving results. Participation, communication,
information, encouragement are key words for making the successful transition.
The Outcome
24.   Results-Oriented Management would yield considerable benefits such as:
(a)   Government objectives and strategies are more likely to be implemented and so
the contribution to the economy is enhanced;
(b)   Institutions are given a clear sense of direction;
(c)   With proper performance measurement, government, institutions and individuals
are more likely to know what works and what fails;
(d)   Strategic priorities actually receive priority allocation of resources;
(e)   Managers have greater flexibility to encourage performance, innovation and
achievement from staff and work units;
(f)   The process of setting priorities requires consultation and participation of
government (the minister), the institution (MAAIF management) and staff, and so
gives a greater sense of ownership to the priority programs which derive from the
agreed strategies;
(g)   Improved cost effectiveness;
(h)   Since the work environment encourages staff to strive towards achieving results,
skills are enhanced and real trining needs to serve the best interests of the
institution are more clearly defined;
(i)    Through rewards for outstanding performance based on results and having a much
clearer sense of direction in their work, staff productivity, motivation and job
satisfaction are enhanced;



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
(j)    Since work units are able to retain unused financial resources consistent with the
achievement of the agreed results, wasteful expenditure is reduced (and even
eliminated);
(k)   Cost recovery is increased since staff see the opportunity to benefit from
increasing revenue;
(1)    More efficient rationalization is promoted since the institution has a clearer sense
of its mission and of each of its work units (if they don't fit into the mission they
don't get resources!);
(m)   Most importantly, the customers including government, are more satisfied since
the institution is more responsive to their needs.
(n)   The government's goal of creating a more efficient, effective and responsive
MAAIF serving the needs of its customers, the government and the private sector,
would be well on the road to being achieved.



Page 1 of 7
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Internal Systems Improvement
Background
1.    Although MAAIF has received considerable assistance in technical areas such as
extension, livestock and animal husbandry, administrative systems which enable it to plan,
control and monitor its operations have not received similar attention. There has been no
investment in the areas of financial management and accounting, procurement, personnel
management and internal audits. This is partly a result of the reporting structure of these
functions which is external to the ministry, with procedures and personnel controlled by other
ministries as follows: (a) the financial management and accounting function reporting to the
Ministry of Finance; (b) personnel function reporting to the Ministry of Public Service; (c) the
function of procurement performed centrally through the Tender Board, and (d) internal audit
function performed by staff from the Auditor General's office due to lack of staff in the Ministry of
Finance. The Government is now making changes in the reporting structure, making each ministry
and agency responsible for these functions.
2.    Financial Management and Accounting. Financial reporting in MAAIF is regulated by
financial regulations under the MFEP which determine financial management in the whole of
Central Government. MAAIF therefore uses the government's financial procedures of planning,
budgeting, accounting, internal control and financial management. These procedures are outdated
in terms of the volume and complexity of current reporting requirements. Other weaknesses of
the current government's financial management and accounting system include: (a) delays in the
flow of funds from the Treasury to the ultimate users; (b) the failure to disburse the full arnounts
budgeted in the annual budget; (c) little correspondence between plan objectives and budgetary
allocations; and (d) lack of internal controls. Lack of effective accountability within the current
government's financial management system is a critical issue which negatively affects the
operation of the ministry.
3.    In addition to system weaknesses, the accounting and financial management function
suffers from the lack of adequately qualified staff. Uganda has a small accounting profession
with less than 100 professionally qualified accountants and a similarly serious shortage of
accounting technicians. The demand for accountants is therefore very high. The government has
not been able to compete with the private sector for qualified accountants due to its low
remuneration. Because staff appointments and promotions in the accounting unit are deternined



Annex 8
Page 2 of 7
by the Ministry of Finance, mobility among accounting staff is high, resulting in lack of
continuity in staff and lack of allegiance to the line ministry.
4.    Because of the lack of adequate government financial management and accounting
systems, different donors have established their own parallel financial systems to account for
their funds. Sometimes, these funds are not taken into account in the government system of
accounting, which implies an understatement of investments in the agricultural sector as reflected
in government accounts. The ministry has not benefited in terms of building ministry-wide
financial management capacity to manage future projects, as the expertise used in project
implementation is funded by the project and the government is not able to keep the experts
beyond the life of the project.
5.    The result of the above factors is the significant delay in the preparation of financial
statements. MAAIF operates without information to: (a) assess the efficiency and effectiveness
of the utilization of its resources; (b) assess the success and impact of its programs; and
(c) determine whether the resources are used for purposes for which they are intended. The
existence of parallel donor accounting systems in which transactions are not incorporated in the
ministry accounting systems results in an understatement of expenditure in the sector.
6.    Procurement and Asset Management. Procurement for MAAIF is carried out centrally
under the MFEP and the Central Tender Board. MAAIF only manages the procurement of
amounts less than one thousand dollars. A substantial portion of ministry procurement is carried
out under the donor-funded projects. As with financial management and accounting, donors
have developed their parallel procurement systems which are not part of the government system.
7.    Asset maintenance and management is weak in MAAIF. This results in unnecessary
incremental expenditure because of delayed repairs. Vehicles and equipment are poorly managed
and frequently under-utilised, and in time, are vandalised.
8.    The stores' management and control function is weak. This is due to the following:
(a) inadequate storage facilities; (b) lack of appropriately qualified staff; (c) lack of linkage
between stores and accounting functions; (d) lack of adequate stores records; and (e) weak internal
controls.
9.    Personnel Management. The personnel unit within the MAAIF was controlled from the
Public Service where the staff are seconded, and promotions determined. The unit suffers from
the following weaknesses: (a) lack of appropriately qualified personnel; (b) lack of transparent
personnel management systems; and (c) poor records management. The unit has performed
functions determined by the Public Service and has therefore not developed ministry-wide skills
in personnel management. The decentralisation of personnel to ministries and districts implicitly
aims to improve the management of human resource capacity in the public sector. Individual
ministries, therefore, have to put programs in place to build this capacity.
10.   Internal Audit. The internal audit is part of the control mechanism of an entity which
seeks to ensure that established procedures are functioning as intended, and it makes



Annex 8
Page 3 of 7
recommendations for improvement. The internal audit assists members of the organization in the
effective discharge of their responsibilities by furnishing them with analyses, appraisals,
recommendations, counsel and information concerning the activities reviewed. It is a part of the
internal structure of management reporting to the chief executive. Currently the internal audit
function in the GOU is weak. While some of the larger ministries have internal audit
departments, most have only examination units whose role is limited to the pre-audit of payment
vouchers. Under the Economic and Financial Management Project, the GOU has agreed in
principle to the setting up of an internal audit department.
11.  In MAAIF there is no intemal audit department. Staff from the office of the Auditor
General perform a pre-audit function of examining those vouchers over one million shillings.
This is not an intemal audit function as defined above, but an intemal organizational control,
where one person independently checks the work of another. Although this has the effect of
strengthening the intemal control procedure within the Ministry, it is not the same as an internal
audit which is independent of every day transactions, and therefore, reviews systems more
objectively.
12.   Staff from the office of the Auditor General will be withdrawn from June 1995. This will
significantly weaken intemal controls within the ministry. It is therefore, imperative that (a) an
altemative mechanism be put in place to pre- audit vouchers, and (b) that an intemal audit unit be
in place to carry out a continuous independent appraisal of the financial and accounting systems
in operation in MAAIF. Such a review will assess the reliability and integrity of financial
reporting and operating information systems and the means to identify, measure, classify and
report such information.
Rationale for Improvement
13.  In addition to the weaknesses discussed above, the following developments require
stronger and improved financial management and accounting systems, procurement, personnel
and internal audit functions:
*  the sector approach to investment in the agricultural sector will require a strong
financial management and accounting system to be able to account for both
government and donor funds in the sector. The introduction of parallel systems by
donors can be prevented by establishing appropriate and effective government
financial management and accounting systems. The sector approach will result in a
much enlarged procurement function to take account of all investment in the sector.
MAAIF will need expertise to carry out this function effectively, and ensure
compliance with the different donor procedures. There will be a significant asset
portfolio under the agricultural sector investment program, which will require careful
management;
* the introduction of ROM will require appropriate systems of financial reporting, to be
able to accurately and timely record the use and assess the impact of resources. The



Page 4 of 7
linkages in ROM between goals, financial resources and budget, and performance
measurement against precise indicators can only be effectively realized with strong
financial management systems, and transparent personnel systems;
*  decentralization has resulted in a different role for the MAAIF whose function now is
primarily policy formulation, technical guidance and regulation. This calls for
different financial information needs and reporting systems to meet these needs. With
the role of the ministry changing, the need for timely and up to date information is
increasingly vital. Systems that will therefore facilitate accessibility and dissemination
of information need to be established. There is, in addition, a strong need to ensure that
all staff have easy access to both information to facilitate their implementation
schedules, and information that goes to increase the pool of knowledge in the ministry;
and
*  From July 1, 1995, the common cadres of accounting staff and personnel will cease.
Staff in these functions will be employed directly by the line ministries who will be
responsible for their staff development and promotion. It will be the responsibility of
MAAIF to ensure that it has appropriate skills in these areas to carry out its new
ftmctions. MAAIF will, therefore, have to reexamine its current skills mix, and
develop its own programs to ensure that it has appropriate skills for its new role.
Objectives
14.   The principal objective of this component is to ensure that MAAIF has the following in
line with its new role: (a) appropriate financial management, accounting and procurement
systems to provide timely financial information for management decision making and to ensure
accounting for all resources, government and donor, into the sector; (b) systems to meet
information requirements under ROM; (c) appropriate personnel records and systems to ensure
appropriate staff development and transparent monitoring; (d) a strong intemal audit unit to provide
a continuous assessment and improvement of financial management and accounting systems; (e)
appropriately qualified and motivated staff working in an environment that enhances optimal
performance, and (f) easily accessible information throughout the MAAIF.
15.   The above objectives would be achieved by the following to be supported under this
component:
* studies in the areas of financial management and accounting, procurement, asset
management and human resource development to critically examine MAAIF's new
structure created under the CSR, and the information needs of the various users and
design systems that meet these needs. The studies would benefit from the contribution
of a ROM expert who will ensure the designed systems are compatible with the
requirements of ROM;



Page 5 of 7
*  support for implementation of the recommended systems resulting from the various
studies;
.  capacity building to ensure application of installed systems. This should be done
through on-the-job training, and the design of courses to meet skills gap necessitated by
the new systems;
  support for the establishment of a financial management unit, which would be
responsible for accounting for both government and donor funds;
*  support for establishment of a procurement unit to handle both government and donor
procurement;
*  availing a library and documentation centre to enable the flow of current information to
technical departments in addition to linking up the various units and offices;
-  sensitization and managerial workshops to facilitate staff appreciation of the changing
role of the various units, in particular, and the ministry, at large, and their role in
managing and effecting the change.
Component Description
16.   An integral part of the transition of MAAIF to a new role is the definition of its
information needs and the design of systems to meet this role. The focus of this component is
the analysis, definition, and implementation of MAAIF's internal administrative and
management systems in the following areas: (a) accounting and financial management systems;
(b) procurement, maintenance and asset management functions, (c) internal audit; (d) personnel
management; (e) information systems including a library and documentation center; and
(f) monitoring and evaluation functions.
17.   Systems Studies and Implementation. The Civil Service reform and the consequent
reorganization of MAAIF have resulted in a new role for the MAAIF and therefore new
information needs. The project would fund studies in the following areas: (a) financial
management and accounting; (b) procurement; (c) asset management, and (d) human resource
development to critically examine the new structure of MAAIF and the information needs for
various users, and design systems to meet these needs. The studies would develop a time bound
implementation plan for new systems in these areas. Provision has been made for the
implementation of new systems by consultants, one of whom should be a ROM expert to ensure
the systems designed would be compatible with the principles and needs of ROM. Wherever
practicable, the revised systems should be adopted before the full introduction of ROM.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 7
18.   The financial management study should include, as a component, a computer master plan
study (including types of computers, software, staff training, standardization, backup support,
maintenance, possible networking and an agreed implementation plan) to prepare a coherent
computerization program within MAAIF. The procurement study should address, in addition to
procurement issues, the area of vehicle management examination, operation, ownership options,
maintenance and replacement policy issues.
19.   The project would fund the implementation of the proposed system, subject to approval
of the studies by MAAIF and the donors. Specialists funded to work as project staff should work
closely with the consultants in the areas of systems design and implementation.
20.   Financial Management, and Procurement and Maintenance Units. MAAIF receives
from donors significant assistance, which is currently accounted for outside the government
system under different donor systems. The objective of the project is to rationalize accounting
and financial management and procurement systems under government systems through the
creation of a financial management unit and a procurement and maintenance unit to manage
project and government accounting, procurement and asset management. The project would
provide support for the local recruitment of a financial adviser and procurement specialist
charged with operationalizing the new units, setting procedures, and strengthening capacity in
these units. Staff training programs such as government accounting, project accounting and
donor procurement procedures would be funded under the project. Project support would also
include logistic improvement through computers and other office technology to be identified
under the studies.
21.  In addition to government and donor procurement functions, the procurement specialist,
in consultation with the systems consultants should be responsible for implementing an asset
management and maintenance system, and also a stores system. The project would support the
training requirements and logistics.
22.   As the new financial management and procurement systems would not be in place before
project effectiveness, the financial advisor and procurement specialist would be responsible for
putting in place a transitional arrangement for accounting for project funds, with sufficient
internal controls, transparency and financial reporting mechanisms to meet the information needs
of MAAIF and the donors.
23.   Internal Audit. The new structure, procedures and systems in MAAIF would require
appropriate systems of internal control to ensure timely flow of relevant information and the
safeguarding of ministry assets. The project should therefore fund the following: (a) recruitment
of an internal auditor to set up the internal audit unit, recruit and train support staff, and design
the appropriate internal audit procedures for the ministry; and (b) the requisite office technology
for this function. The internal auditor would work closely with the MFEP responsible for the
internal audit assignment under the Economic and Financial Management Project.



Annex 8
Page 7 of 7
24.   Personnel Management Unit. Support for personnel management would complement
the ODA support to MPS for the strengthening of records management. Building on the pilot
program carried out in the Ministry of Trade and Industries, the project would support the
piloting of the records management system in the personnel unit, and the acquisition of the
appropriate hardware and software.
25.   Library and Documentation Center. MAAIF currently lacks a central library and
documentation center to serve as a repository of both technical and other relevant sector
information. A central library and documentation center to serve the needs of all MAAIF
directorates and departments would be established under ASMP. Support would include
appropriate library equipment and furniture, and an initial stock of reference, technical and
librarian training.
26.   Capacity Building. The success of the internal systems component would depend on the
human resource capacity to implement the new system. In addition to on-the-job training to be
provided by the technical assistance, provision has been made for training, which would be
identified as a result of the needs assessment.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 7
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Training Fund
Background
1.    The MAAIF has benefited from a considerable amount of assistance in human resources
development over the last many years, in the form of a long-term, medium-term, and in-service
training. There were several technical assistance activities involving internationally recruited
personnel whose main objective was to train Ugandan counterparts, besides carrying out specific
tasks. As a result, several Ugandans have been trained at undergraduate and graduate levels. In-
service training programs and workshops were widely used for skill enhancement within and
outside the country.
2.    Although it has been difficult to get accurate information on the number of people
trained, many staff members of the Ministry have benefited from training programs. Since 1988
five Officers have been trained to Ph.D. level, about 1 10 have been trained at masters levels and
15 are currently under training at Makerere University. As regards short-term training, at least
310 Officers have attended courses, workshops, study tours and conferences ranging from a few
days to about a year outside the country. The number of Officers who have participated in local
short-term courses, workshops and seminars is not known, and could be in the thousands for this
period of time. In the Agricultural Planning Department of MAAIF, out of a total of 15 staff
members, excluding the Statistics Section, 10 have masters degrees, three bachelors degrees, and
two are diplomats. Staff qualified at the bachelor's level and above in the other technical
departments such as crops, livestock and fisheries are much higher in number than those trained
in agricultural economics, management or related disciplines.
3.    Despite the large number of trained staff, the Ministry has encountered major constraints
in improving institutional capacity and efficiency in its operations, policy analysis,
program/project formulation and planning. First, the Ministry has difficulty retaining its trained
and qualified staff, and has not succeeded in improving the attitude of staff towards work. The
current job situation militates against efficient work habit. In addition to the uncertainties
associated with the retrenchment and deployment under the ongoing civil service reform, staff
are not paid a living wage. Working conditions are poor, financial resources and appropriate
equipment unavailable for carrying out responsibilities, and quality of management and
supervision is weak. Therefore, most staff use their office hours to do other income generating
activities, look for assignments that could provide incentive payments or shift to other agencies
that provide better incentives. Second, most of the training, particularly that provided in



Annex 9
Page 2 of 7
economics, statistics, policy analysis and other social sciences, does not provide practical
experience and, therefore, critical skills for the application of knowledge acquired through
training are lacking. Third, training, particularly overseas training, has been used to reward
trainees rather than as a means to fill skill gaps. It is a means of supplementing income. As a
result, overseas training is strongly favored over more cost effective, locally organized training
programs.
Project Approach
4.     Training Fund. Given the shortcomings of the approaches to the training of staff in the
Ministry, the project attempts to introduce a demand driven approach which would place a fund
in the hands of the institutions who need the training. The requirements of the institutions
would be defined based on their role and functions, in conjunction with the skills available
within the institution and that which can be acquired outside the institution. This would lead to
the definition of the training needs of staff. After determination of the training need, the
institution or the individual trainee would be provided with money, drawn from the training fund
to finance the training services provided by institutions that were selected on a competitive basis.
This approach would introduce competition for the provision of training services among training
providers, and would encourage training institutions to adjust to the demands of their clients.
Because of the existence of training institutions in the area of agriculture and management within
Uganda, and in neighboring countries, this approach would provide an opportunity to increase
capacity in those institutions that respond better to the demands of clients.
S.    Needs Assessment. Before embarking on a training program and utilizing the fund, the
institutions concerned would undertake a needs assessment study which would help define their
demand. The needs assessment would be carried out with the aim to:
(a)    Identify the gaps in the technical, implementation and management skill of senior
and middle level staff of MAAIF, staff of other institutions participating in the
implementation of components and sub-components of ASMP and district
officials dealing with agricultural sector;
(b)    Design training modules, with detailed course contents and suggested training
materials, that are appropriate and adequate to fill the skill gaps identified in (a);
(c)    Establish detailed criteria and pre-requisites for the selections of trainees and for
evaluating training requests/proposals;
This is an approach that is being applied in IDA projects in Kenya, The Micro and Small Enterprises Training
and Technology Project (12275-KE); Cote D'Ivoire, Labor Force Training Support Project (12850-IVC), and
Uganda, Institution Capacity Building project (136 1O-UG).



Annex 9
Page 3 of 7
(d)    Recommend appropriate allocation of funds between districts and the central
institutions depending on the training needs assessment made for each group of
participants; and
(e)    Prepare a general training plan for the life of the project and a detailed training
plan for the first and second year of the project.
6.    Focus on Skill Enhancement. The training to be provided under ASMP would focus on
enhancement of skills, given the fact that the staff of the ministry have benefited from formal
training programs over the years. The training component of the project is, therefore, designed to
overcome the weakness of past training programs, and to provide intensive, predominantly local,
district focused and work-oriented training for enhancing technical skills and analytical capacity.
District Production and Marketing Department staff, MAAIF staff, particularly that of APD, and
staff of other agencies involved in the implementation of ASMP would benefit from the scheme.
The objectives of this scheme would be: (a) to enhance analytical capacity throughout the sector;
(b) to provide low cost and work related training; (c) to enhance individual skill and knowledge
and thereby enhance analytic capacity both quantitatively and qualitatively; and (d) to act as a
change agent for promoting improved work attitude and discipline.
7.    The types of skills that require strengthening could include, inter alia, the following
general groups:
(a)    development concepts and systems thinking, plus interdisciplinary work habits
and institutional cooperation;
(b)   research skills and report writing: conceiving and structuring a problem, designing
an efficient methodology in light of time, budget and data constraints, how best to
collate and analyze data;
(c)    quantitative skills: weighted averages, use of percentages, use and presentation of
graphs, index numbers and splicing index series, deflating a price series by the
appropriate deflator, growth rates using spreadsheets for simple linear regression,
use of logarithms in calculating elasticities, analysis of trends, making projections,
correlation analysis, statistical tests, etc.;
(d)   specific simple analytical techniques: e.g., partial budgeting, gross margin
analysis, yield gap analysis, supply-utilization and commodity balance sheets,
commodity chain analysis, incremental cost-benefit analysis, sensitivity analysis,
competitiveness analysis; policy analysis tools: e.g., comparative static analysis (S
and D shifts of a single commodity over time), border pricing, simulation and
linear programming and other optimization models, regression models, social
accounting and policy analysis matrices (taught with real situation data and
realistic work setting);



Annex 9
Page 4 of 7
(e)    policy monitoring, evaluation of policy impacts at the farm-household and
commercial enterprise levels; farming systems concepts and techniques and farm
management analysis, considerations of gender, social/geographic equity,
environment and sustainability; policy and program appraisal via a range of
objectives and objective levels (national, sectoral, family smallholding,
commercial business);
(f)   computer skills: e.g., databases, project management software; and interviewing
techniques, surveys and data gathering, participatory skills.
8.    The proposed training scheme would address these and other areas to the extent possible,
and in doing so would provide on-the-job training (OJT) integrated with carefully designed in-
service training(IST) modules.
9.    The in-service training would be based on the needs assessment study and the training
modules that would be prepared thereafter. Providers of the in-service training would be selected
on a competitive basis. Moreover, the in-service training would make use of local facilities and
would be carried out within the country. This would have the advantage of focusing training on
national and institutional needs, encouraging group rather than individual training, bringing local
training institutions and their instructors into contact with current analytical needs in an actual
institutional context, and allow them to enhance their capacity, and leave behind a capacity for
follow-up after project completion.
10.   The general areas where training modules could be developed include, inter alia, the
following:
(a)    Strategic Sector Planning and Policy Analysis: This module would provide a
holistic overview of the interaction of exogenous and endogenous variables in
agricultural development. In addition to a common core of skills, participants in
this module would develop specialized skills and knowledge in critical
macroeconomic and microeconomic concepts and its relationship with agriculture,
issues pertaining to population growth, migration and urbanization; consumption
economics as it relates to food and agricultural commodities; crop, livestock and
fisheries production and issues of production factors such as land and water
resource utilization, labor, technology; and environment and sustainability.
(b)   Policy and Program Formulation: This training module would be designed for
agricultural economists, management specialists and technical specialists in the
sector. It would also enable participants to assess sectoral and sub-sectoral
opportunities within the macroeconomic constraints, thus familiarizing staff with
the macro-micro linkages. Micro-level analysis involving farm families and
farming systems, commercial service systems, linkages between government and
private sector would also be analyzed. Investigative techniques in a sectoral and
sub-sectoral priority setting, commodity analysis (production, marketing,
competitiveness, vertical and horizontal integration), and the design of policy
instruments and policy options that support a particular agricultural activity would



Annex 9
Page 5 of 7
be the focus. Production economics, farm management concepts, supply response
analysis, and credit theory are possible courses that would be covered.
(c)   Regional Agricultural Economics: This module would be designed to meet the
needs of District level agricultural staff and the few from the central ministries
educated to the B.Sc. level. It would provide skill in data collection, supervision
of enumerators, survey design and analysis and participatory rural appraisal
techniques. It would train for decentralized planning for rural development.
Moreover, it would provide the skills needed for identification, design and
appraisal of small scale projects in cooperation with the rural communities.
Because it is likely that District-level staff would be supervising the gathering and
collection of market information, early warning data, and crop area, yield and
production data, they would be trained to understand how such data systems are
operated as well as the uses to which the data are put. Providing a sound
knowledge of farm-economics and farm-household systems would be one of the
objectives of this module.
(d)   Managerial and Supervisory Skills. With the introduction of a result-oriented
management, the need for a training module for staff in the management category
would be high. This module would emphasize the basic theme of management by
objective and management for result. Training in financial, personnel and asset
management would be included in this module.
11.   Skills acquired through IS training or other training opportunities are quickly lost if not
applied in day-to-day work. OJTs would form an integral part of the IS training and the work
program of the participating staff members, and those who complete short and medium-term
training programs within and outside the country and return to, or join, the ministry. Staff of
other ministries who participate in IST and ASMP financed training programs would also qualify
for OJT.
12.   The purpose of an OJT is to create a situation where participants in or staff designated to
work on specific problems can use live data base and information from the work place to solve
problems and to apply the skills acquired through training. An OJT assignment would be (a)
linked to a skill acquired or to be acquired and developed through an IS training or medium and
long-term training, and (b) part of the sector's policy and reform agenda. Topics that deal with
the regulatory functions of the Ministry and that would lead to a new or improved regulatory
framework would qualify as topic for OJT assignment. Technical issues regarding crops,
livestock, and fisheries could be part of an OJT assignment, provided the techniques and skill
acquired in the training programs were applied and were part of the sector policy and reform
agenda.
13.   The focus of an OJT would be to: (a) use a live database, and case studies for the
applying the skills acquired through training; (b) encourage a multi-disciplinary approach to
addressing issues considered important for the sector; and (c) provide qualified supervisors from



Annex9
Page 6 of 7
the academia, public sector, private sector, externally recruited professionals or trainers with an
OJT assignment.
Management of the Skill Enhancement Scheme
14.  Implementation of the training component of the project would be under MAAIF, DTI,
supported by a Skills Enhancement Committee (SEC) and a Training Officer. The SEC, to be
chaired by the Head of DTI, would be comprised of one representative each from the MAAIF
Directorates, APD and the agencies who implement sub-components of the ASMP. The semi-
autonomous Management Training and Advisory Center, Uganda management Institute,
Faculties of Agriculture, Social Sciences, and Public Administration of Makerere University, and
EPRC would also be invited to serve on the committee.
15.   The SEC would review all training proposals and make recommendations to the PMC. It
would, inter alia, (a) review the training needs assessment report; (b) ensure the preparation of a
training master plan, appropriate training modules, and annual training plans based on the needs
assessment study; (c) ensure the provision of adequate support to the training requirements of
Districts in close consultation with the MOLG; (d) review headquarters staff applications for in-
service and on-the-job training, and short- and long-term training; and (v) recommend to the
PMC the best use of the training fund and how best to administer the fund from time to time.
16.   A Training Officer would be recruited and would be assigned to the DTI. He/she would
be a member of the SEC and its Secretary. The training officer, would ensure the completion of
the training needs assessment and the training modules, and would seek its approval and
adoption by the SEC and PMC. He/she would maintain a list of training providers and design
competitive procedure for the procurement of the services of the trainers on a competitive basis.
Some training modules could require the participation of external trainers. Therefore, the
training officer could invite external providers to compete for providing training. Proposed
training modules, courses and training providers would be approved by SEC and PMC. The
training officer would invite nominations of candidates for IS training from MAAIF and other
agencies involved in the implementation of the project, and would screen applications to ensure
that qualifications for participation are met. The information thus compiled would be presented
to the SEC and passed to PMC for approval.
17.   The project can enter into an agreement with local institutions who could assist in the
implementation of the training component in a manner that would be acceptable to both IDA and
the GOU.
18.  Implementation of the training component of the project in the districts would be the
responsibility of the DES. He/she would set up a District Skill Enhancement Committee
(DSEC), that would be chaired by the head of the Department of Production and Marketing and
with members drawn from the appropriate departments and section of the district government.
Based on the district needs assessment, the DES would utilize the fund allocated for the district
for the training of its staff by selecting training providers on a competitive basis. The Training
Officer at the MAAIF would provide the DSEC with information about training and training



Annex 9
Page 7 of 7
providers to allow the committee to make decisions on the basis of adequate infonnation, and
would provide advice on the utilization of the fund allocated for the districts.



Annex 10
Page I of 6
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Agricultural Data and Information Systems
Background
1.   Information on crops, livestock and fisheries statistics were compiled during the colonial
administration, with emphasis on cash crops such as cotton and coffee. The main objectives of
that administration in collecting such data was to assess the viability of the raw materials for
export. Trends of production areas of major export crops were compiled for many years, but
major studies were carried out in the 1950s: overhauling of the agricultural statistics in 1957/58;
investigation into acreage statistics by FAO, 1958/59; and sample estimation of cultivated area in
1960.
2.    A census of agriculture was recommended in 1962 in order to better assess the
agricultural potential of Uganda. The main objective was to train local personnel in census
undertaking to develop better methodologies for obtaining accurate, reliable and timely data on a
permanent basis. The GOU, together with the UN/FAO organized and carried out the first sample
census of agriculture during the period of 1963 to 65. The results were published in 1966.
Although there were certain weaknesses in coverage (Districts of Toro and Karamojo were not
covered), scope (few crops included) and measurement (variable planing and harvesting dates for
the same crops), the census result remained the main source of agricultural information for more
than two decades. At the time of the census it was envisaged that the collection of data would
continue on an annual basis until the next census, which was supposed to be in 1975, in order to
improve on the statistics, streamline the methodologies and the techniques used in sample design
and data analysis; and to enable studies on trends in crop acreage, yield, production, livestock
number and herd structure. The present Statistics Section was created at that time to conduct
follow-up annual sample surveys.
3.    However, neither the follow-up annual surveys nor the sample census were carried out as
originally planned. Instead, the Department of Agriculture resorted to a reporting system which
uses the extension field staff to collect data subjectively. Under this system, data is aggregated and
analyzed at the district level and forwarded to the headquarters in a monthly, half yearly and annual
report for further aggregation, analyses and dissemination. This system has survived to the present,
although the accuracy and reliability of data trends thus collated has always been questioned.



Annex1 0
Page 2 of 6
4.    A second National Census of Agriculture and Livestock was carried out in 1990/91 after
almost twenty five years The objective was to provide current agricultural statistics such as land
utilization, crop yields and acreage, livestock numbers, agricultural production structures and
characteristics of land holdings, and to create the institutional framework for a permanent system of
agricultural statistics.
5.    The 1990/91 survey encountered problems that undermined its integrity. First, its
coverage was far more limited than the 1965 census due to the prevailing security problem. Six
districts were not included in the census and the sample size was less than one percent of total
holdings in the country--smaller than the sample size used in the 1965 census. Second, the sample
frame used was unsatisfactory. Due to a lack of good area frame, a list of tax payers compiled by
the Ministry of Local Governments was used for the census. This proved to be a less than
satisfactory sampling frame, because the list was incomplete, and there were significant tax
exemptions and tax evasions that were hard to determine and account for. For purposes of
comparison follow-up annual surveys were conducted for two years, but the data has not
processed or published for lack of resources. In general, the Government does not consider the
results of the 1990/91 census usable for planning and policy formulation purposes.
6.    In the area of fisheries statistics, there were several attempts at developing a system that
would support sustainable use of the natural resources, involving the design and implementation
of measures to monitor and control the amount, type and seasonality of fishing operations. A
recent notable attempt in this regard was undertaken between 1988 to 91 through a UNDP/FAO
supported project, Rehabilitation of Fisheries Statistics and Information Systems. The project
provided resources for the continuous data collection system at fish landing sites and markets in
and around the major lakes, as well as for non-continuous surveys such as frame surveys of fishing
factors and socio-economic surveys at regular five year intervals; and also established a
standardized system of monitoring routines for the collection of reliable fisheries data; and designed
and made provisions for fisheries information storage, retrieval and dissemination. When the
project terminated in 1991, there was no resource to continue the activities started under the project
and most of the operations initiated under the project are not now functional.
Component Objectives and Description
7.    Information is a basic building block for the rational planning and optimum use of
resources. The agricultural statistics and information systems strengthening component of
ASMP is, therefore, meant to focus on strengthening, rationalizing and expanding the
agricultural Sector information base which is very weak at the moment. Much of the agricultural
data in Uganda relating to crop acreage, yields , marketable surplus, total production, etc., are
lacking. Where data is available, its accuracy and reliability is questionable. Moreover, the system
lacks sustainability.
8.    Objectives. The objectives of this component of the project is to create a system that is
capable of producing an accessible and reliable data base covering key aspects of crops, livestock
and fisheries, hence, strengthening the country's capacity to produce reliable information at



AnnexLQ
Page 3 of 6
national, and District levels. The component will strengthen institutional capacity for information
gathering, timely analysis and dissemination of information. The activities included under the
component include collection of data on routine basis by the various actors in the sector, conducting
of major and minor surveys on production, marketing, prices and other basic information that will
be needed for policy analysis and formulation and other managerial decision making by the
government and the private sector.
9.    Project Description. The major activities under the component are: compilation of a
Primary Agricultural Data Base (PADB); design and implementation of the Annual Agriculture
Sample Surveys (AASS); preparation of a National Sample Census of Agriculture and Livestock
(NSCAL); design and implementation of the Integrated Fisheries Surveys (IFSs).
Primary Agricultural Data Base gathering will be a one-time exercise consisting of five
phases:
(a)   A country-wide complete-coverage enumeration of a few key agricultural variables
(tentatively 10 to 15, most of them concerning crops and livestock), using the LC's
organization.
(b)   Data entry and verification.
(c)   Data editing and validation.
(d)   Data processing and tabulation.
(e)   Report preparation and publication.
10.   All five phases would be carried out during the first project year.
11.   Phases "a", "b" and "c" will produce a "clean file" (i.e., data base) containing the most
relevant items of elementary agricultural variables. This data base will be an appropriate frane
upon which subsequent (and cheaper) sample surveys will be designed when needed. The lack of
such data base is one of the most important constraints that the GOU is currently facing to produce
reliable agricultural information. Phases "d" and "e" will produce bench mark data at the national
and district level, which are currently lacking. This kind of information is essential for national
level planning. Moreover, with the decentralization process under way, such information is
gradually becoming crucial for the districts.
12.   If the task is completed successfully, it will dramatically improve the country's capacity
to produce reliable agricultural information. The existence of the LC's organization, at the grass
root levels, makes the exercise feasible and it could pave the way for data collection on a routine
basis. The estimated budget is, apparently, within reasonable limits. There are, however, some
important aspects that have to be taken into account. The proposal depends heavily on the ability to
sensitize, recruit, train, organize, supervise and motivate these LCs. Therefore, a very careful



Annex 10
Page 4 of 6
preparation will be needed. The simplicity of the questionnaires is absolutely essential. A tight
supervision scheme must be implemented, likely at the sub-county level (LC3), especially during
enumeration. The task will not be a simple one, and a strong political will and commitment (at all
levels) will be essential. ASMP should therefore be prepared to build this through sensitization
seminars and workshops.
13.   The Annual Agricultural Sample Survey (AASS) will focus on crop and livestock data
and will be conducted annually, in order to provide estimates for planning purposes at the
national level. The AASS will consist of three field visits per crop season/year. The Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries (MAAIF) will be responsible for the AASS design, in
close consultation with the Statistics Department (SD) of MFEP and other actors, particularly
planners. External technical consultancies in statistics and survey design will be funded in years
one and two, in order to assist the MAAIF in this task. Long- and short-term training in sampling
and survey methods for the MAAIF's technical staff will also be funded in year one. The field
enumeration will be carried out by SD, and MFEP. This scheme will make better use of the SD's
staff at the field level (it is estimated that almost 200 enumerators will be needed and SD has
enumerators on the ground). In other words, the MAAIF will use the services of SD for the
enumeration, using project funds. The phases to take place after the enumeration, namely (a) data
entry and verification; (b) data editing and correction; (c) data processing and tabulation, and
(d) report preparation and publication, will be the MAAIF's responsibility. External and local
technical assistance as well as long and short-term training would be funded, particularly in data
processing, during years one, two and three. It is assumed that the MAAIF will be self-sufficient
afterwards. Vehicles, data processing facilities and assorted items of equipment would be
purchased using project funds.
14.   A key issue for the success of this sub-component is the adequate inter-institutional
coordination, particularly between the MAAIF and the MFEP. A formal memo of understanding
would be required during the negotiations. The sub-component cost has been estimated assuming
that the AASS's will be approximately twice the sample size of the current Integrated Household
Survey and that the questionnaire will be much simpler. However, for the time being, these are just
estimates based on the information at hand. The situation may change and the work load may turn
out to be different once the AASS's design is completed. Therefore, it might be necessary to review
the original estimates in the future.
15.   The country's past experience show that this kind of permanent exercises has seldom been
sustainable when the project's life comes to an end. It is, therefore, recommended that a
sustainability study be undertaken after the second year. It would be highly desirable to undertake
sustainability to ensure that the AASS's are sustainable in the long run.
16.   The National Sample Census ofAgriculture and Livestock will take place during the fifth
project year, aiming to get the MAAIF ready for the 2002 round of agricultural censuses. The
country's past experience indicate that normally no provisions are made for the census
preparation, and both preparation and census field work are carried out simultaneously. As a
consequence, the preparation phase is usually carried out under heavy time pressure. The result is a



Aanex 10
Page 5 of 6
poor preparation that seriously undermines the capacity to carry out the census. The fact that the
ASMP will be finishing when the 2002 round of agricultural censuses is supposed to start, led to
the decision to include this sub-component. This would enable MAAIF to carry out adequate
preparation before the census. The sub-component would aim to prepare during the ASMP's 5th
year the NSCAL's sample design, the data tabulation plan, the questionnaire design and the data
editing specifications. The computer programs for all the data processing phases would be
developed, tested and documented. Money-wise, the core of the sub-component is external
technical assistance. No provisions are made for training local staff, since training in the specific
areas of specialization is supposed to take place earlier in the project's life, within the AASS's
design and implementation sub-component. Therefore, it is assumed that there will already be
trained technical staff at hand to work in close contact with the consultants -thus acquiring
experience- and that the local staff will be able to handle the rest of the preparation phase
afterwards.
17.   There are two issues that need to be taken into consideration. First, since a population
census will likely take place by the year 2001, it should be coordinated with the NSCAL to avoid
overlap and duplication of effort. Second, it is recommended that the MAAIF's staff should
develop, during the preparation phase, a detailed work plan for the subsequent phases of the
NSCAL, including timetables and cost estimates.
18.   The Integrated Fisheries Survey sub-component aims to enhance the MAAIF's capacity
for planning and managing the fisheries sub-sector; provide reliable information about the sub-
sector (including socio-economic information about the fishing communities) and to undertake a
continuous monitoring and evaluation of the natural resource. The sub-component also includes a
smaller module which aims to provide basic information about aquaculture (fish farming), which is
believed to be fast-growing.
The IFS's consists of four modules, namely: (a) Catch Assessment Survey (CAS), (b) Frame
Survey (FS), (c) Socio Economic Survey (SES), and Aquaculture Survey (AS).
19.   The CAS module will be a recurrent monthly sample survey, aiming to provide reliable
estimates of the weight and value of the fish catch landed, by species, at both the district and
national level. The project will fund the rehabilitation of the CAS in those lakes in which it is
already established (Victoria, Albert, George and Edward) and where the CAS is almost collapsing
because of the lack of resources, and would finance the design and implementation of the CAS in
lakes Kyoga and Albert Nile, in which the system has not yet been implemented.
20.   The FS module will be a complete enumeration of fishing factors (such as number and
location of fishing communities, and fish landings, number and type of fishing boats, fishing
gear, etc.) for all the water bodies. A fish farming inventory will be built within this module. The
survey will be conducted once every three years, starting in the project's first year.
21.   The SES module will be a sample survey, designed to provide reliable information about
the fishing communities, as well as some technical and economic topics such as post harvest fish



Annex 10
Page 6 of 6
handling, transportation, marketing, consumption and distribution at the national level. The SES
will be basically designed using the output of the FS as a sampling frane and will be carried out
once every two years, starting in year two. The agency in charge of the SES will be the
Socio-economics and Marketing Section of the FPDD.
22.   The AS is the smaller module of this sub-component and, its aim is to produce basic
information about the incipient farm fishing industry. The AS will be carried out once every two
years, starting the first year of the project.
23.   The estimated total cost for this sub-component is US$ 1,412,660 and over 50 percent of
this total is to be spent in the first year, for the purchase of vehicles, boats and data processing
facilities and procuring external technical assistance.
24.   The output of the implementation of the IFS will likely raise other important issues,
particularly (a) the depletion of the resources due to excessive and/or indiscriminate catching and
(b) environmental problems due to deforestation and/or agricultural runoff. If something like this
should happen, it might be important to review the system in order to assess the magnitude of such
problems.



UGANDA
Agricultural Sector Management Project
Project Cost Summary
Uganda
Agricultural Sector management project                                                                                                      %      % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                             (Shilling Million)                    (US$ '000)              Foreign    Base
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning
1. Analytical Capacity Building                                     1,165.5     1,453.9     2,619.3    1,226.8     1,530.4    2,757.2        56       16
2. Agricultural Policy Research Fund                                  814.6      349.1      1,163.8     857.5       367.5      1,225.0       30        7
3. Sector Investment Program                                          682.9      709.9      1,392.8     718.9       747.2      1,466.1       51        8
4. District Planning                                                1,249.6     1,451.6     2,701.2    1,315.4     1,528 0     2,843.4       54       16
Subtotal Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning                    3,912.7     3,964.5     7,877.1    4,118.6     4,173.1     8,291.7       50       47
B. Management Reform and Institutional Strengthening
1. Intemal Systems Reform
A. Personnel unit                                                   470.0      171.3       641.3      494.7       180.3       675.0        27        4
B. Procurment and maintenance unit                                  167.8       66.0       233.8      176.6        69.5       246 1        28        1
C. Financial management unit                                        162.8       95.1       257.9      171.4       100.1       271.5        37        2
D. Audit unit                                                       20.5        34.6        55.1       21.6        36.4        58.0       63         -
E. Library and documentation                                        89.5       209.7       299.3       94.2       220.8       315.0        70        2
Subtotal Internal Systems Reform                                      910.5      576.8      1,487.3     958.5       607.2      1,565.6       39        9
2. Result Oriented Management                                        412.9       297.9       710.8      434.6       313.6       748.2        42        4
3. Training Fund                                                     845.5      2,536.5     3,382.0     890.0      2,670.0     3,560.0       75       20
Subtotal ManagementReform and Institutional Strengthening             2,168.9     3,411.2     5,580.1    2,283.1     3,590.8     5,873.8       61       33
C. Information and Agricultural Data
1. Primary Agricultural Data Base                                    618.2       249.8       868.0      650.7       263.0       913.7       29        5
2. Annual Agricultural Sample Survey                                  747.7      783.4      1,531.1     787.1       824.6      1,611.7       51        9
3. Preparaton For The National Census                                  51.0       78.2       129.2       53.7        82.3       136.0        61        1
4. Integrated Fishery Surveys                                         235.0      671.3       906.2      247.3       706.6       953.9        74        5
Subtotal Information and Agricultural Data                            1,651.9     1,782.7     3,434.5    1,738.8     1,876.5     3,615.3       52       20
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                   7,733.4    9,158.4    16,891.8    8,140.4     9,640.4    17,780.8       54      100
Physical Contingencies                                                386.9      459.2       846.1      407.3       483.4       890.6        54        5
Price Contingencies                                                   877.2      944.9      1,822.0     571.8       613.8      1,185.6       52        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    8,997.5    10,562.4    19,559.9    9,119.5    10,737.5    19,857.1      54      112
>
I-3
ro 
(D (
C)



UGANDA
Agricultural Sector Management Project
Project Components by Year
((US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
Uganda
Agricultural Sector management project
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)                                                                          Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       Total
A. Policy Fonmulation and Strategic Planning
1. Analytical Capacity Building                                      587.6     832.8      761.8      458.8      468.1     3,109.1
2. Agricultural Policy Research Fund                                 133.2     219.5      340.0      351.9      364.2     1,409.0
3. Sector Investment Program                                         583.7     540.3      194.0      117.3      188.2     1,623.5
4. District Planning                                               1,224.5    1,243.5     212.2      219.6      227.3     3,127.1
Subtotal Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning                   2,529.1    2,836.1    1,508.1    1,147.7    1,247.8    9,268.7
B. Management Reform and Institutional Strengthening
1. Internal Systems Reform
A. Personnel unit                                                  206.8      193.7     115.0      119.1      123.2       757.9
B. Procurment and maintenance unit                                233.7        7.4        7.6        7.9        8.1       264.7
C. Financial management unit                                       174.0      66.7       17.9       18.5       19.2       296.4
D. Audit unit                                                      40.1        5.6        5.8        6.0        6.2        63.6
E. Library and documentation                                        12.8     125.1       71.4       73.9       76.5       359.7
Subtotal Internal Systems Reform                                     667.4     398.6      217.7      225.4      233.2     1,742.3
2. Result Oriented Management                                        167.3     374.1      141.5       86.6       62.9       832.3
3. Training Fund                                                     490.2    1,097.7    1,133.4     703.9      607.1     4,032.4
Subtotal Management Reform and Institutional Strengthening           1,324.9    1,870.4    1,492.6    1,015.8     903.2     6,607.0
C. Information and Agricultural Data
1. Primary Agricultural Data Base                                   948.2        6.6        6.8        7.0        7.3       975.9
2. Annual Agricultural Sample Survey                                 616.1     359.4      291.4      269.9      265.9     1,802.7
3. Preparaton For The National Census                                    -      43.9          -          -      116.6       160.5
4. Integrated Fishery Surveys                                        708.8       79.3      81.8       84.7       87.7     1,042.3
Subtotal Information and Agricultural Data                           2,273.1     489.1      380.0      361.7      477.4     3,981.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   6,127.1    5,195.6    3,380.8    2,525.2    2,628.4    19,857.1
D   (
rDr



Annex 1I
Page 3 of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Estimated Project Cost Distribution Among Major Stakeholders
(US$ '000)
(Excluding Contingencies)
Component                        MAAIF          Districts        Others'
A. Policy fornulation and strategic planning
1. Analytic capacity building                2,628.8               -           200.0
2. APRF                                                            -          1,331.8
3. ASIP                                                            -          1,561.1
4. District Planning                               -          2,827.6
Sub-total                               2,827.6         2,827.6         2,829.9
B. Management reform and training
1. Internal systems reform                    1,551.2              -               -
2. Mgt. system reform2                         475.5           317.0
3. Training3                                   900.9          2,014.8          609.0
Sub-total                               2,927.6         2,531.8           509.0
C. ADIS Strengthening
1. Primary agriculture data base               100.0           803.9
2. Annual sample survey4                       437.5           200.0         1,012.5
3. Census preparation5                          25.8               -           131.5
4. Fisheries survey                            734.3           203.6
Sub-total                               1,297.6         1,207.5         1,144.0
Total                          6,854.0         6,566.9         4,545.9
(percent)                        (39%)           (37%)           (24%)
Includes NGOs, private sector participants and public agencies (Agriculture Section of MFEP, APSEC,
Statistics Department of MFEP). MAAIF and Districts could also benefit from this sector-wide
allocation
2Sixty percent for MAAIF and the remaining 40 percent for Districts.
3 Sixty percent for Districts, 25 percent for MAAIF and 15 percent others.
Seventy five percent for payment to Statistics Department of MFEP
Same as 4.



Annex 12
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
by IDA Fiscal Year Semester'
Loan Disbursement
Cumulative
Year/Semesters       Est. Dist.     Est. Cum. Disb.      Total (%)
1997
Sem.l              811.0             811.0               5
Sem. II           2,010.9           2,821.9              16
1998
Sem. l            2,821.9           5,643.8              31
Sem. II           2,421.0           8,064.8              45
1999
Sem.I             2,421.0          10,485.8              59
Sem. II           1,519.2          12,008.0              67
2000
Sem. I            2,058.6          14,063.6              79
Sem.II            1,107.9          15,171.5              84
2001                               _
Sem. I            1,647.4          16,818.9              94
Sem. II           1,078.9          17,897.8             100
IDA credit effectiveness, completion and closing dates are assumed to be July 1996, June 30, 2001 and
December 30, 2001, respectively.



UGANDA: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT, SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASISSTANCE AND STUDIES
96        ] |         1997                      1998          [          1999          |          2000                     2001
ID    Task Name                         Q3   Q4       l |2 03 040102030401                                    0 Q20Q3  |Q4  Q01    Q2   Q3   Q4  01    Q2    Q3
I   ASMPI
2    TA-EXTERNAL
3        Policyanalyst
4        Production economist                            .           .
6        SIP specialist(s)
6        ROM adviser
7        Sarnpling design expert
8        Data processing expert
9        Sample design expert
10        Data processing expert                                                                                                                -
11        Sample Design-Fisheries                                                                                 :.
12 TA-LOCAL
13        Financial Adviser                                                       :     .      .:
14        Procurement Adviser                      .                        .
15        Training Officer                                                  .
16        SIP Manager
17        Auditor                                                           .
18        Twinning With EPRC
19
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
Project: UGANDA-ASMP                  P     s        n
Date: 10/31/95                        Progress IRolled UpTask
A         7".                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Li
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone
Page 1



UGANDA: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT, SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASISSTANCE AND STUDIES
96   1    1997           1         1998           1         1999                      2000          J          2001
ID    Task Name                            304  01    020Q3    Q4   Q1    Q2    Q3    Q4   Q1    Q2    Q3   Q4   Q1    Q2   Q3    Q4    Q1    Q2   03
20   STUDIES/CONSULTANCIES                                                                                                                                        _
21        Training Needs Ass./Study
22        Management Syst. Study & Imp.
23        Baseline Survey
24       Impact Study-Mid-term.
25       Impact Study- Completion                                                  :
26        District Plan Prep. Guideline
27        District Plan Preparation
25        Agr. stat. sustainability study                             :
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress                                          rQ Z
Project: UGANDA-ASMP                                                                                                                                                                    X
Date: 10/31/95                         Progress                                 Rolled Up Task                                                                                       t 
Milestone                                Roller Up Milestone                                                                                 hO
Page 2



Annex-14
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
IDA
1.    About six staff weeks per year of input will be required for regular supervision
that would involve the review of progress reports, procurement actions, and for
correspondences at headquarters. In addition, a staff input (including consultants) of an
average of about 10 person weeks per annum will be required in the field. The
composition of the team is listed in the table below. These will be financed out of IDA's
administrative budget and not from the proceeds of the project credit.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.    Reports on project implementation, summarizing accomplishments, constraints,
status of procurement, disbursement and expenditures, etc., would be submitted quarterly
by each agency that participates in the implementation of components and sub-
components to the Project Office. The Project Office will compile and analyze the
reports and issue an integrated quarterly project report, which will be submitted to the
PMC. The quarterly component reports as well as the annual project report should
describe the extent to which component-related physical, institutional and financial
aspects of the project are implemented as envisaged at appraisal. To that end, the reports
will cover such aspects as disbursement, procurement, staff appointment, training,
consultancy, availability of local funds, technical assistance progress, adherence to
covenanted actions, etc. The report should also provide an indication of the objectives for
the next quarter and the resources that have to be deployed to meet these targets.
3.    The Project Coordinator will set up a timetable of key meetings between the IDA
mission and appropriate institutions in the country as agreed with the mission leader. It
will also be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator to notify component
implementing agencies and work units of the dates of missions, and for ensuring the
availability of relevant officials and staff for discussion. He /she will also be responsible
for organizing the mid-term review and the impact evaluation studies that are planned for
the third year and final year of the project.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
Schedule of Supervision Missions
Approximate                                                          Staff Input
Date              Activity                Expected Skills        Staff Weeks
May 1996       Project Launch Workshop   Task Manager               12
Procurement
Training Specialist
Disbursement
Legal Counsel
Policy Analyst
October 1996   Supervision Mission      Task Manager                12
Training Specialist
Policy Analyst
Production Economist
Agricultural Statistician
Institutional Dev. Specialist
April 1997     Supervision Mission      Task Manager                12
Training Specialist
Policy Analyst
Financial Analyst
Computerization Specialist
________  < Agricultural Statistician
October 1997   Supervision Mission      Task Manager                10
Policy Analyst
Financial Analyst
Training Specialist
Agricultural Statistician
April 1998     Supervision Mission      Task Manager                8
Financial Specialist
Policy Analyst
ROM Specialist
October 1998   Joint GOU/IDA            Task Manager                12
Mid-term Review          Agricultural Statistician
Policy Analyst
Training Specialist
Financial Analyst
Institutional Dev. Specialist
April 1999     Supervision Mission      Task Manager                6
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Policy Analyst
October 1999   Supervision Mission      Task Manager                6
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Policy Analyst



Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
Approximate                                                          Staff Input
Date              Activity                Expected Skills        Staff Weeks
April 2000     Supervision Mission      Task Manager                6
Financial Specialist
Agricultural Statistician
October 2000   Supervision Mission      Task Manager                6
Training Specialist
Policy Analyst
April 2001     Final Supervision Mission   Task Manager             10
Financial Specialist
Agricultural Statistician
Policy Analyst
Institutional Dev. Specialist



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning
OBJECTIVES                   INPUTS/ACTIVITIES             PROCESS INDICATORS              OUTPUT INDICATORS'             IMPACT INDICATORS
Analytic Capacity Building
Strengthen analytic capacity in   *   TA to work and train        *  filling of vacant and new    *  number of trained staff;    *  new policies and
MAAIF, APD                            counterpart staff;              posts in ADP                *  number of counterpart staff     directions arising from the
*   internal and extemal long-    *  TA recruitment status         working with TA;                work of APD;
term and short term         *  training status             *   issues addressed and        *   improvements in sector
training;                  *  status of surveys and studies    support provided through        policies and strategies;
*   financial support for       *  status of twinning              the twinning arrangement;    *  new programs and
purchase of computers,         arrangement                 *  studies and surveys              projects under
office equipment, vehicles    *  procurement of inputs         completed;                      implementation;
etc.;                      *  financial indicators, i.e.,  *  guidelines, manuals,         *  change in work culture;
*   financial support for studies,  expenditure by each activity   procedures established for    *   cost-recovery introduced;
surveys, recruitment of        or category; audit              budget preparation, M&E,
short term consultants;        compliance, unit costs          policy analysis;
*   establish a twinning                                       *  services provided to other
arrangement with a policy                                      Directorates, Districts and
research institute;                                            work units within and
outside the Ministry;
e >
See detailed output indicators for each project year in Annex 16.
o



OBJECTIVES                  INPUTS/ACTIVITIES            PROCESS INDICATORS              OUTPUT INDICATORS             IMPACT INDICATORS
Agricultural Policy Research
Fund
Foster agricultural policy related  *  avail fund to carry out  *  signing of an agreement     *  number and types of policy   *  actions taken on the
analytical skill-building in the    studies and research;           with EPRC, that outlines the   issues researched/studied;    findings of the studies,
sector.                          *  identify and sign agreement     modus operandi of the fund   *  number of institutions and   including the new or
with administrator of the     and that provides detailed     individuals participating in   improved policies,
policy research fund;         guidelines on the selection    policy research;               programs, projects;
*  gather research topics and     of issues, researchers,    *  level of participation of   *  benefit to private sector;
issues from National Forum    consultants;                   local private consulting   *  private sector
and through other means;    *   agreement on the cost of     firms                          participation in policy
administering the fund;                                      formulation;
*  organizing National Policy                                *  new information and
Research Forum;                                              knowledge made
*  establishing and                                              available to the sector;
administering the proposed                               *  number and standard of
two research fund windows;                                   local consulting firm;
Sector Investment Program
(SIP)
Introduce medium-term sector     *  acceptance in principle to  *  recruitment of SIP Mgr;     *  sector strategy paper;     *  translation of strategy and
investment program as a vehicle to  shift to a sector approach  *  setting up of task forces and   *  sector investment program;  program into action, and
agricultural growth.                 form a project approach;       working groups;            *  donor commitment to            the resulting changes;
*  SIP Manager and the office;  *  donor coordination by         finance medium-term        *  resource (intemal and
task forces/working groups    government;                    investment requirements;       extemal) mobilization,
to prepare the secto       *  work program of task forces                                   allocation and utilization;
strategy prape;               and working groups and                                    *  donor long-term
task forces/working groups    adherence to it;                                              commitment to finance
to prepare sector investment  *  government endorsement of                                  program;
pam:El=                       the sector strategy and the
*  donor participation;           investment program;
o x
_,1



OBJECTIVES                  NPUTS/ACTIVITIES            PROCESS INDICATORS             OUTPUT INDICATORS            IMPACT INDICATORS
*  donor-government
*  District level plans that can   *  visit to countries which                                agreement to follow
be linked to national         prepared, and are                                           agreed procedures and
investment plans;            implementing SIP; inviting                                   systems of sector
*  experience of other           individuals experienced in                                   development
countries;                    SIP preparation and                                         administration;
implementation;
DstrkIc Planning
*  TA to prepare guidelines for  *  TA recruitment to prepare    *  district plan guideline;  *  prioritization of programs,
Introduce micro-level Agricultural  plan preparation;             guideline;                *  district agricultural and rural  projects and investments;
planning                        *  MAAIF and MOLG staff    *  formation of MAAIF and            development plans;         *  understanding of the
support to the process;       MOLG team to work with                                      interlinkages between
*  TA for preparation of         consultant;                                                  sectors and subsectors, as
District plans;           *  preparation of district plans                                well as district and
*  district and below-district,  by Districts;                                                national plans;
including communities,                                                                *  mass mobilization to
participation in guidelines                                                               remove constraints and to
and plan preparation;                                                                     exploit potential;
*  extent to which private
and public investment
moves in the direction
indicated by the plan;
e9 Z
m m
x
o u'
F4



2. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
OBJECTIVES                 INPUTS/ACTIVITIES           PROCESS INDICATORS             OUTPUT INDICATORS            IMPACT INDICATORS
Internal systems improvement
Introduction of efficient systems of  *  revised organizational  *  start implementation;   *  complete implementation of  *  new organizational
human and financial resource        structure of MAAIF;       *  recruitment of TA for the      new structure;                structure;
management in the MAAIF         *  TA for the study of           studies and the            *  studies on financial       *  establishes an efficient
financial, procurement, asset  implementation of the       management, procurement,      financial and human
management,                  studies;                      audits, vehicle management,   resource management
computerization and       *  establish task force          computerization;              system in the Ministry;
personnel management,        chartered by USFA to lead   *  guidelines and manuals for   *  timely and accurate
*  TA (Advisors for finance,     the work under this sub-      those who will implement      financial reporting;
procurement and audit) for   component and for ROM;        the studies;               *  timely and cost effective
the implementation of the    *  creation of appropriate work  *  systems and procedures that  procurement system in
above studies;               units, such as financial      are operationalized;          place;
*  office equipment and          management unit and       *  library and documentation    *  effective pre and post
appropriate technology;      procurement unit to           center;                       audits;
*  training,                     implement the new systems;  *  trained staff            *  smooth and efficient
*  recruiting of staff to fill                                 management information
positions in the various units                              system;
and to filly imnplement the
new systems and
procedures;
*  developing appropriate
training modules and
organizing such training
*  preparations for the
establishment of a library
and documentation center;
tarn
o u'
14



OBJECTIVES                  INPUTS/ACTIVITIES            PROCESS INDICATORS             OUTPUT INDICATORS             IMPACT INDICATORS
Management Systems Reform
Introduce mission-driven         *  TA to design, introduce and   *  recruit TA               *  a ROM system of            *  improved efficiency and
management and result-focused        implement ROM;            *  name task force for ROM         management                    productivity, and greater
system of management.            *  training in ROM principles     (same task force for intemal  *  number of people trained in  achievement of the
and implementation;           systems improvement);          ROM;                          objective and mission of
*  experience of other        *  design systems that are     *  change in work attitude and    MAAIF;
countries-                    appropriate for ROM            culture;                  *  motivated work force;
introduction;             *  well defined mission for
*  visit countries with           each work unit;
experience;
*  invite individuals who have
experience;                                              *  actions that impact the
sector taken by the public
and the private sector;
Training
*  financial resources available  *  recruit TA;             *  needs assessment study and   *  skills gaps filled and
Human resource development for      for training               *  establish a Skills             training module;               efficiency improved;
analytic capacity building, intemal  *  TA for needs assessment    Enhancement Committee;    *  number of people trained;
systems improvement and             and training module design   *  design training module;
management reform.                                             *  carry out the training as
planned;
>4
Ul
o L
Fh4



3. AGRICULTURAL DATA AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
OBJECTIVES                  INPUTS/ACTIVITIES             PROCESS INDICATORS              OUTPUT INDICATORS             IMPACT INDICATORS
Primary Agricultural Data
Base
Collection and dissemination of  *  TA in the design of         *  national technical           *  field enumeration           *  district level key
key agricultural data on crop and    questionnaires; and prepare    coordinating committee          completed;                     indicators for crop and
livestock using the RCs.             guideline;                     appointed at project start;    *  data entry and verification  livestock available;
*  RCs at all levels and district  *  training provided at various  completed                 *  national level data
government staff mobilized     levels;                    *  final report prepared and        aggregated from district
for the survey,            *  supervisors designated and      released;                       data;
*  finance for carrying out the   trained;                                                    *  basic knowledge on
survey, particularly for   *  questionnaires printed;                                         survey methods available
paying subsistence                                                                            with communities and
allowance of RCs;                                                                             district government staff
*  training of RCs and local                                                                     for another round of
government staff in survey                                                                    survey;
methods;
Annual Agricultural Sample
Survey
Annual estimate of key crop and  *  TA in sample design and     *  field work for the two       *  annual national crop and    *  timely availability of
livestock indicators at the national  data analysis;                seasons carried, three visits  livestock statistics released;  agricultural data for
level                            *  enumerators, supervisors,       per season;                 *  tested sample frames and        decision;
data processors;           *  appropriate questionnaires      methodologies that can be    *  knowledge and
*  training;                       and manuals prepared;          used for next crop year with    experience in conducting
*  computer and other data     *  reports are prepared;           or without modification;        survey and data analysis;
processing facilities;
*  vehicles and other field
equipment;
_ Uv



OBJECTIVES                  INPUTS/ACTIVITIES             PROCESS INDICATORS              OUTPUT INDICATORS             IMPACT INDICATORS
Preparation for National
Sample Census
Prepare national sample census   *  TA for preparing            *  Preparation of the census    *  census design;              *  adequate preparation for
design, data tabulation,             questionnaire;                 design; questionnaire design  *  questionnaire;                the year 2002 agricultural
questionnaire design and data    *  financial input;                and data editing            *  specifications for data         and livestock census
editing specifications.          *  office equipment and            specification;                  editing;                       without time-pressure;
facilities;
Integrated Fisheries Survey
Improve capacity for planning and   *  TA in fisheries survey;   *  starting of field work for the  *  reports on each of the  *  proper use of natural
management of fisheries activities,  *  financial resources;        catch assessment, frame         surveys;                       resource and the
and provide reliable information  *  equipment and training;        survey, socio-economic      *  fisheries statistics;           monitoring and evaluation
about fisheries activity.                                           survey, and aqua culture                                       of the fisheries resource
survey;                                                       for effective management.
questionnaire design and
survey design completion;
oQnD
tD (D
0 W
o u'



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
OUTPUT INDICATORS
Output Description                    1996/97              1997/98             1998/99        1999/00       2000/01
1.              Analytic Capacity Building
1.1   MAAIF APD Strengthening
professional staff assignment                         20                   30                  40            40             40
studies                                                5                   15                  30            30             30
socio-economic surveys                                 1                    2                  4              4             4
service contract signed & delivered                    3                    6                  10            15             15
guidelines, manuals, procedures                        2                    5                  7              7             5
1.2   Policy Research Fund
contestable window output (policy paper)               3                    4                  4              4             2
capacity building window (policy paper)                5                   10                  15            15             15
1.3   Sector Investment Programn
strategy paper--discussion stakeholders            complete
strategy paper--GOU approval                       complete
SIP--discussion with stakeholders                    start              complete
SIP--discussion with donors                          start              complete
SIP--GOU approval                                                       complete
1.4   District Planning
guidelines preparations (districts)                   39
district agricultural plans (districts)               19                   20
2.         Mgt Systems Reform & Strengthening
2.1  Internal Systems Improvement
studies--financial, procurement, asset management,
computerization                                      complete
implementation--financial, procurement, asset
management, computerization                            start              complete
manuals--finance, procurement, audit, asset                                5
management, personnel management
doc. center--collection & catalogue               preparation           continue            continue      continue       continue
doc. center--facility procurement                 preparation           complete
2.2   Management systems reformi
rationalization of MAAIF/other agencies              start              continue            continue                                    0 
training in ROM--MAAIF staff                          20                   120                160                                       o x
training in ROM--Districts staff                                          250                 400            100           80
defining mission of work units, of total                                  half                half                                      o __



Output Description                      1996/97                1997/98              1998/99        1999/00        2000/01
2.3   Training'
needs assessment                                      complete
training--MA  external--center                                                  5                    5              5               -
training--MA  internal--center                                                  4                    5              5               1
training--MA  internal--district                                                20                  20              20             18
study tour--center                                  2                      1                   1               I
study tour--district                                                      3                    5               5              4
in-service training--center staff                   15                   120                  160             170            80
in-service training--district                      60                    520                  710            580             180
on-the job training--center staff                  40                    140                  170            200             100
on-the-job training--district                                            140                  280            240             140
other short courses--district                      20                     30                   30             20             20
other short courses--center staff                   2                     5                    5               5              5
3.    Agricultural Data & Information System
3.1   Primary Agricultural Data
workshop and orientation (participants)                40,000
field enumeration                                     complete
data entry verification                               complete
data processing and tabulation                        complete
report                                                complete
3.2   Annual Agricultural Sample Survey
field enumeration                                                           complete             complete        complete       complete
data entry and verification                                                 complete             complete        complete       complete
data processing and tabulation                                               complete            complete        complete       complete
report                                                                       complete            complete        complete       complete
3.3   Preparation for National Sample Census
census design                                                                                                                   complete
questionnaire design                                                                                                            complete
specification for data editing                                                                                                  complete
3.4   Integrated Fisheries Survey
catch assessment (monthly summary report)                12                     12                   12             12             12
fish factor enumeration (report)                          1                                          1
soci-economic survey (report)
aquaculture survey (report)                               I                                          I
3.5   Agr. Statistical Abstract                                                                                                             1            X I
P m   x
o a'
Preliminary estimates indicated here would be verified and adjusted according to the findings of the needs asessment study.



Annex 17
UGANDA
Agricultural Sector Management Project
Selected Documents In Project File
1.    Working Group Reports
1.1   Strategic Planning and Policy Analysis
1.2   Rationalization of MAAIF Functions
1.3   Human Resources Development
1.4  Internal Systems Improvement
1.5   Management Information Systems
2.    The Local Governments (Resistance Councils) Statute, 1993
3.    Report of the Institutional Specialist on MAAIF
4.    Rural Development Planning
5.    National Agricultural Training Plan
6.    Administration of the Agricultural Policy Research Fund and the Training Fund
7.    Detailed Project Cost Tables.






MAP SECTION






30                                         32'                                        3,/                                        35
SUDAN                               A
MOYO                                                      I'
J              MOYO                 <KITGUm)                                                   UGANDA
/                                                         DISTRICT CAPITALS
\"ARUA                                                            KOTIDO                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
/                               JGULU                                                              DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
ZAIIRE           .                                                                                                    RIVERS
NEBBI,                                                                        MORpTO\              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,_AC .- LIRA
APAC
2~~~ ~/                                                 APC 
MASINDI                                       .SOROTI                                    b
KUMI
HOIMA.UM                                                              KAPCHORWA 
PALLISA                                   ,r  t
i                                                              a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5MBALE .  t SaP',,-   Lc
KIBOGA                     KAMULI                   (,BL
,KIE          (!3             LUWERO        1L
<                ,^~~~~~~~IKIBALE''                        
BUNDIBUGYO                                                                         TOROROa  ,
*     FORT                    IMUBENDE                                     iGANGA                          5036106,0'     50        00       00
PORTAL
KAMPALA  .    JINJA'- ,)                                   M-SSO               0             100
j  KASESE                                          .        MUKONO
J                                       ~~~~~~~~MPIGI                                KENYA
- 3 (                                                                              \0_._<.  '
MASAKA         KALANGALA                             j
BUSH-ENYI                                                                        j 
0)  MBARARA
RIJKUNGIRI     NTUNGAMO               WRAKAI                                                I
KISIORO
K9ABAt      K                                        TANZANIA
_C                RWANDA  .n
'C                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3?                     30'O
U,,     I                                                                                                                     N - - III7









IMAGING
Report No:       14889 UG
Type: SAR



