Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2845 UG
                          Development Credit Agreement
                     (Agricultural Sector Management Project)
                                     between
                             THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                      and
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                Dated May 2, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2845 UG
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1996, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated December 14,
1995 from the Borrower describing its strategy for agriculture
institutional development (hereinafter called the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
            Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations.".
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "MAAIF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries;
      (b)   "MPS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Services;
      (c)   "MOLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government;
      (d)   "MFEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning;
      (e)   "APD" means the Agricultural Planning Department within MAAIF;
      (f)   "APRF" means the Agricultural Policy Research Fund to be
established under Part A.2 of the Project;
      (g)   "ASIP" means the Agricultural Sector Investment Program to be
prepared under Part A.3 of the Project;
      (h)   "EPRC" means the Economic Policy Research Center, a company
incorporated on March 31, 1993 under the Companies Act, Cap. 85, of the
Laws of  Uganda;
      (i)   "District" means each of the 39 administrative districts in
the Borrower's territory established under the Uganda Constitution of 1995;
      (j)   "Project Implementation Plan" and "PIP" mean the comprehensive
plan for the implementation of the Project referred to in paragraph 4 (a)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (k)   "First Project Year" means the twelve month period beginning
on July 1, 1996 and ending twelve months thereafter and "Project Year" or
"PY" means any twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First
Project Year or the end of subsequent Project Years;
      (l)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated March 1, 1995, March 23, 1995, December 15, 1995, and
December 28, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (m)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Research Grant" means a grant made, or to be made, by EPRC
to a Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a
research activity under Part A.2 of the Project;
      (o)   "Beneficiary" means a recipient of a Research Grant selected
on the basis of the eligibility criteria referred to in paragraph 6 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (p)   "Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between EPRC and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out a
Page  3
research activity under Part A.2 of the Project.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
      Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,100,000).
      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by EPRC on account of withdrawals made by a
Beneficiary under a Research Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the research activities in respect of which
the withdrawal from the credit Account is requested; and (ii)
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (Special Account A for
Parts A.1, A.3, B.1, B.2 and C of the Project and Special Account B for
Parts A.2, A.4 and B.3 of the Project) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Page  4
      Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October
1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MAAIF with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03.  (a) The Borrower shall, within thirty months after
the Effective Date, but in any event not later than December 30, 1998,
carry out jointly with the Association, a comprehensive review of the
Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters
relating to the progress made in the carrying out of the Project and the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement
including, but not limited to a review of the achievements of the Project,
in accordance with performance indicators specified in the PIP, the
implementation and management aspects of the Project, the performance and
use of technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart
Page  5
staff, the status and results of training, reporting, accounting and
audit performance, disbursement procedures and the overall sustainability
of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the review referred
to in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in
implementing the various components of the Project, and a draft plan
containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly after the review referred to in
paragraph (a) above, (i) prepare an action plan satisfactory to the
Association based on the recommendations stemming from the aforementioned
review, and (ii) adopt and implement such plan for the remainder of the
Project period.
      Section 3.04. For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  each Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                    ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                    ARTICLE VI
                             Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has completed a baseline survey, satisfactory
to the Association, to be carried out in accordance with paragraph 4 (c)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   MAAIF has appointed duly qualified staff to fill the positions
referred to in paragraph 5 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has taken steps, satisfactory to the Association,
ensuring that all Districts will carry out the surveys referred to in
Part C.1 (b) and (c) of the Project; and
      (d)   the Borrower has adopted a PIP satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                  Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01.  The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala
            Uganda
Page  7
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINSEC                  61170
                  Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                     THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                     By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                                 Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                                   Regional Vice President
                                                                    Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Works                     56,000          90%
(2)   Goods:                                    100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)  under Parts       1,295,000
           A.1, A.3,
           B.1, B.2 and C
           of the Project; and
Page  8
      (b)  under other Parts   760,000
           of the Project
(3)   Consultants' services                     100%
      (a)  under Parts      2,475,000
           A.1, A.3, B.1,
           B.2 and C
           of the Project; and
      (b)  under other Parts  260,000
           of the Project
(4)   Training, workshops                       100%
      and seminars
      (a)  under Parts A.1,   255,000
           A.3, B.1, B.2
           and C of the Project;
      (b)  under Part A.4     195,000
           of the Project; and
      (c)  under Part B.3   2,816,000
           of the Project
(5)   Publications, including                   50%
      teaching materials
      and manuals
      (a)  under Parts A.1,   100,000
           A.3, B.1, B.2
           and C of the Project; and
      (b)  under Part A.4      50,000
           of the Project
(6)   Operating expenditures                    80% in the First
                                                Project Year and
                                                Project Year 2 and
                                                65% in Project Year 3
                                                and Project Year 4
                                                45% thereafter
      (a)  under Parts A.1, 1,275,000
           A.3, B.1, B.2
           and C of the Project; and
      (b)  under Part A.4     610,000
           of the Project
(7)    Research grants        935,000           100% of amounts
                                                disbursed by EPRC
(8)    Refunding of           405,000           Amounts due
       Project Preparation                      pursuant to
       Advance                                  Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of this Agreement
(9)    Unallocated            613,000
                           __________
      TOTAL                12,100,000
                           ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
Page  9
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating expenditures" means incremental
expenditures incurred on account of the Project for allowances, office
supplies, office communications services, minor office equipment,
utilities, fuel, maintenance and insurance of vehicles.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   payments made under Category (4) (c) unless: (i) MAAIF has
established the training committee referred to in paragraph 10 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) MAAIF has completed, to the
satisfaction of the Association, the needs assessment study referred
to in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   payments made for expenditures under Category (7), unless
EPRC has submitted to the Association a model Grant Agreement,
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure:
      (a)   for expenditures for goods and works under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and
      (b)   for expenditures for services under consultants' services
not exceeding: (i) $100,000 for consulting firms, and (ii) $50,000 for
individuals; under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to enhance analytical
capacity for policy formulation in the agricultural sector; (b) to
improve the responsiveness, efficiency and effectiveness of MAAIF in
carrying out its role in agricultural sector management, through
reforming management systems and improving internal procedures; and
(c) to strengthen agricultural information systems.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Policy Formulation and Strategic Planning
1.    Strengthening APD's analytical capacity to formulate policy and
define strategic policies in the agricultural sector through:
      (a)   provision of technical advisory services in policy and
strategy formulation and analysis; financial analysis and business
management; production economics and farm management; and strengthening
staff skills and capacity through fellowships, short courses and study
tours; and
      (b)   a twinning arrangement with EPRC to enable APD staff to
acquire first hand experience through participation in selected
research programs.
2.    Establishment of APRF to: (a) foster policy-related analytical
skill-building, and (b) to deepen the understanding of relevant issues
in the agricultural sector, through the financing of research and
analysis programs of participants in both the public and private
sectors.
Page  10
3.    Preparation of a national medium-term agricultural sector
investment program to promote investment and growth in agriculture
through:
      (a)   the definition of priorities and strategies in the sector,
including the roles of the various public and private sector entities
involved in the implementation of such strategies; and
      (b)   the identification and preparation of high-priority
subsector investment proposals consistent with the strategy defined
in Part 3 (a) above.
4.    Promotion of effective agricultural growth and development among
rural families through: (a) the introduction of micro-level strategic
planning capability among communities, and (b) strengthening the
linkages between MAAIF and the Districts in the areas of training and
agricultural data collection and analysis.
Part B:  Management Systems Reform and Training
1.    Carrying out of studies on, and subsequent implementation of, the
reform of the internal administrative and management systems of MAAIF,
including the reform of its systems of: (a) accounting and financial
management, (b) procurement, maintenance and asset management, (c)
internal audit, (d) personnel management, and (e) information.
2.    Implementation of a results-oriented-management-system in MAAIF
through the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive scheme
designed to introduce improved management and performance evaluation
techniques.
3.    Establishment and operation of a fund to finance training to
enhance the analytical, monitoring and implementation capacity of
staff of MAAIF, Districts, and public sector institutions involved in
the implementation of the Project.
Part C:  Strengthening Agricultural Data and Information Systems
      Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to produce a reliable data
base for the agricultural sector through:
1.    the carrying out of surveys for the establishment of a primary
agricultural data base at the (a) national, (b) District, and (c)
community levels;
2.    the design and implementation of annual agriculture sample surveys;
3.    the preparation of a national sample census of agriculture and
livestock; and
4.    the design and implementation of integrated fisheries surveys.
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
Page  11
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of
      vehicles, computers and office equipment shall be grouped into bid
      packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Works estimated to cost $90,000 equivalent in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and
$150,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and
$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part D :  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.    MAAIF shall implement the Project with the assistance of a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) which shall be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary of MAAIF and comprise the Commissioner of District
Administrations in MOLG, the Commissioners of Economic Planning and of
Statistics in MFEP, the Commissioner for Administrative Reform in MPS,
the Director of the Secretariat of the Borrower's Agricultural Policy
Committee, the Directors, respectively, of Animal Resources, Crop
Resources and Agricultural Extension in MAAIF, and the APD Commissioner
in MAAIF. PSC shall be established not later than thirty days after the
Effective Date and its responsibilities shall include the provision of
overall guidance in Project implementation with respect to policy
matters, resource allocation, monitoring, implementation and resolution
of major implementation issues.
2.    MAAIF shall, not later than thirty days after the Effective Date,
set up a Project Management Committee (PMC) to advise PSC on any
technical and implementation issues that may arise in the course of
Project implementation. PMC shall be chaired by the head of APD and
comprise all heads of departments and units within MAAIF and other
Ministries and Agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
implementation of the various components or sub-components of the Project.
3.    The head of APD shall also serve as Project Manager answerable to
PSC with responsibility for monitoring progress in the implementation of
the Project, including accounting, procurement and disbursement matters
and the preparation of periodic quarterly and semiannual progress reports.
The Project Manager shall be assisted in the day-to-day monitoring of
Project implementation by a duly qualified deputy, a financial advisor
and a procurement specialist.
4.    (a)   MAAIF shall: (i) prepare and adopt a detailed and
comprehensive plan (PIP), satisfactory to the Association, for the
implementation of all components of the Project, including detailed
action plans and implementation indicators for each component of the
Project, (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is
carried out in conformity with the PIP, and (iii) not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the PIP or any provision thereof which in the opinion
of the Association, will materially or adversely affect the
implementation of the Project.
Page  13
      (b)   MAAIF shall take all measures necessary to ensure that its
monitoring and evaluation unit prepares and furnishes to the Association,
with effect from the end of the First Project Year, for its review and
comments, semiannual progress reports in such form as the Association
shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of Project
implementation based on the action plan for the period under review,
identification of any problems encountered and suggested remedial actions.
Such reports shall be furnished to the Association not later than thirty
days after the date of their preparation.
      (c)   MAAIF shall take all measures necessary to carry out, with
the assistance of consultants to be employed in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, a baseline
survey covering MAAIF and a sample of Districts selected by MAAIF
designed to assess the prevailing level of capacity and effectiveness
of staff dealing with agriculture.
Part A of the Project
5.    (a)   In order to carry out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, prepare a
three-year technical assistance twinning agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, to be entered into with EPRC with terms of reference which
shall have been approved by the Association. MAAIF shall take all
measures necessary to create the necessary positions required to enable
APD to carry out its duties under the Project and to promptly fill such
positions with suitably qualified staff including: (i) five statisticians,
seven economists, and (ii) two financial analysts, two production
economists or farm management specialists, a sociologist and a specialist
in agri-business management.
      (b)   The positions referred to in paragraph 5 (a) (ii) shall be
filled by not later than six months after the Effective Date.
6.    (a)   EPRC shall be responsible for the establishment and
administration of APRF under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with
an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into not
later than thirty days after the Effective Date, between the Borrower
and EPRC which shall, inter alia, specify:
            (i)   EPRC's overall responsibility for the administration
                  and control of APRF and the approval and disbursement
                  of Research Grants to be financed out of the proceeds
                  of the Credit allocated to Category (7) of the table
                  set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
                  Agreement;
            (ii)  the eligibility criteria for Research Grants to be
                  financed under APRF, which shall include:
                  (A)   the relevance of research proposals to priority
                        agricultural policy issues;
                  (B)   the potential contribution of the proposed
                        research to the building of capacity of relevant
                        institutions and to Beneficiaries;
                  (C)   the justification for, and analytical soundness
                        of, proposals submitted by a Beneficiary;
                  (D)   the qualifications and experience of a Beneficiary;
                  (E)   the Beneficiary's contribution to the cost of the
                        proposed research;
                  (F)   the likely practical application of the proposed
                        research activity; and
                  (G)   the amount and frequency of Research Grants to
                        which a Beneficiary may be eligible; and
            (iii) (A)   unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  14
                        Research Grants for: (I) capacity building shall
                        not exceed $15,000 equivalent, and (II) other
                        complex research activities shall not exceed
                        $100,000 equivalent and shall be evaluated on a
                        competitive basis;
                  (B)   EPRC shall enter into a Grant Agreement with each
                        Beneficiary under terms and conditions,
                        satisfactory to the Association, which shall
                        include the obligation of the Beneficiary to:
                        (I) carry out the policy research activity
                        approved by EPRC, (II) periodically report to
                        EPRC on the progress made in carrying out the
                        research, and (III) procure the goods and
                        services to be financed under a Research Grant
                        in accordance with procedures acceptable
                        to the Association as specified in the Grant
                        Agreement and which shall be consistent with the
                        provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7.    In the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project, MAAIF shall:
(a) take all measures necessary to ensure that the preparation and
implementation of ASIP is carried out in consultation with the Borrower's
Agricultural Policy Committee, (b) appoint a manager of ASIP, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Association, (c) not later than thirty days after the appointment of the
ASIP manager, appoint a task force, supported by appropriate working
groups, to undertake the preparation of ASIP, (d) take all measures
necessary to ensure that: (i) an agricultural strategy paper is
completed not later than eight months after the appointment of the ASIP
manager, and (ii) ASIP is completed not later than fourteen months after
the Borrower's approval of the agricultural strategy paper.
8.    The preparation of guidelines for District agricultural plans
under Part A.4 of the Project shall be carried out by MAAIF with the
assistance of a team comprising representatives of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, MOLG, and representatives
of District administrations under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association. MAAIF shall take all measures necessary to ensure that:
(a) guidelines for District agricultural plans are completed not later
than thirty days after the Effective Date, and (b) all District shall
complete the preparation of their respective District plans within
twenty-four months after the Effective Date.
Part B of the Project
9.    The Permanent Secretary of MAAIF, assisted by the Under Secretary
for Finance and Administration (USFA) and the head of APD, shall oversee
the implementation of Part B of the Project. To this end, the Permanent
Secretary shall set up a task force to be chaired by the USFA to initiate
the results oriented management (ROM) process. The USFA shall beresponsible, inter 
alia, for (a) organizing the recruitment of a
consultant with expertise in ROM, (b) the coordination of ROM activities
of MAAIF with those planned and implemented by MPS, and (c) the
implementation of internal systems and procedures with the assistance
of duly qualified consultants with expertise in finance, procurement
and audit who shall be employed by not later than thirty days after
the Effective Date.
10.   (a)   Until such time as the results oriented management is
introduced as specified in subparagraph (b) below APD shall take all
measures necessary to improve management systems in MAAIF's departments
including completion of annual work programs at the beginning of each
fiscal year with each department defining the tasks to be undertaken
by APD, expected outputs or services, the time of completion of the task
and the fees to be paid to APD.
      (b)   MAAIF shall, not later than twelve months after the Effective
Date and with the assistance of MPS and MFEP, take all measures necessary
to commence the introduction of results-oriented-management in MAAIF.
11.   MAAIF's Department of Training and Information shall be responsible
Page  15
for the implementation of the training fund sub-component under Part B.3
of the Project. MAAIF shall: (a)  appoint a training officer whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Association, and (b) not later than six months after the Effective Date,
establish a committee with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to, inter alia, review all training proposals and make
recommendations to PMC.
12.   MAAIF shall take all measures necessary to carry out a needs
assessment study under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to, inter alia: (a) identify the gaps in technical,
implementation and management skills of senior and middle level staff
of MAAIF and other institutions participating in the implementation of
the Project, (b) develop a set of training modules that are appropriate
to fill the identified skill gaps, (c) establish detailed criteria and
prerequisites for evaluating and approving requests and proposals for
training, and (d) recommend the appropriate allocation of funds.
13.   The training officer referred to in paragraph 10 (a) above, who
shall be responsible for the management of all training activities and
serve as secretary of the training committee, shall, based on the
recommendations of the study referred to in paragraph 11 hereinabove,
periodically prepare annual training plans which shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and comments, prior to their
implementation.
Part C of the Project
14.   Chief Administrative Officers in each District shall be responsible
for the implementation of Part C.1 of the Project at the District and
community levels, and shall be assisted by MAAIF through, inter alia,
training, design of questionnaires, preparation of guidelines and data
processing.
15.   Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project shall be carried out by MFEP's
Statistics Department in accordance with a memorandum of understanding,
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into by MAAIF and MFEP
not later than thirty days after the Effective Date.
16.   Part C.4 of the Project shall be carried out by the Fisheries
Department of MAAIF.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
      Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a), (5) (a), and (6) (a)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
with respect to Special Account A; and Categories (2) (b), (3) (b), (4)
(c), (4) (b), (5) (b), (6) (b) and (7) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to Special
Account B;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 with respect to Special Account A and an amount equivalent
to $500,000 with respect to Special Account B to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Accounts pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of Special Account
A and an amount equivalent to $250,000 in respect of Special Account B
until: (i) in respect of Special Account A the aggregate amount of
Page  16
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 3,000,000, (ii) in respect of Special Account B the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits into the respective Special Account which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
                  deposits into the respective Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the respective Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                  shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
Page  17
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
