 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14682

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 03/23/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P084790                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Maharashtra Water              Project Costs (US$M):                 393.77               329.65
                         Sector Improvement
                         Project
  L/C Number:            L4796                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                   325.00               298.28
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                   06/23/2005
                                                                 Closing Date:             03/31/2012           03/28/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (84%); Sub-national government administration (8%); Agricultural
                           extension and research (7%); General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (1%)
          Theme(s):        Water resource management (25% - P); Rural services and infrastructure (25% - P);
                           Administrative and civil service reform (24% - P); Rural policies and institutions (13% - S);
                           Participation and civic engagement (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ebru Karamete              John R. Eriksson        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The same project development objectives were stated in the Loan Agreement (p. 20) and Project Appraisal
Document (p. vi): " to strengthen the capacity of Maharashtra for multi-sectoral planning, development, and
sustainable management of the water resources; and (ii) to improve irrigation service delivery and productivity of
irrigated agriculture."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project had 4 components:

A: Water Sector Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building (Appraisal Estimate US $ 21.11 million, Actual US$
10.97 million).
This component aimed to support: (i) the establishment and operationalization of the Maharashtra Water Resources
Regulatory Authority (MWRRA); (ii) restructuring of the existing Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation
(MKVDC) into the Maharashtra Krishna Valley Water Resources Corporation (MKVWRC) as a river basin agency, and
it’s capacity building; (iii) restructuring and capacity building of the Water Resources Department (WRD); (iv)
strengthening and capacity building of the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI); and (v) the establishment
of an integrated computerized information system (ICIS). The ICR did not provide any explanation for the significant
difference in appraised and actual costs. The project team subsequently stated that the restructuring of MKVDC did
not take place and there were substantial savings from restructuring of WRD.

B: Improving Irrigation Service Delivery and Management (Appraisal Estimate US $ 321.35 million, Actual US$
281.08 million).
This component planned to support: (i) participatory rehabilitation and modernization of about 286 selected irrigation
schemes covering about 670,000 ha of the Culturable Command Area (CCA) (out of 5.8 m ha irrigation potential
created by the state as of 2003-PAD p. 1)); (ii) enhancing the safety of 291 dams; (iii) formation and capacity building
of Water User’s Associations (WAS ) in about 286 selected irrigation schemes; (iv) implementation of improved water
management practices and instruments in six selected irrigation schemes; (v) strengthening of agriculture support
services; and (vi) implementation of social and environmental management plan. The ICR did not provide any
information on the reason for lower than planned actual costs.

C: Innovative Pilots ( Appraisal Estimate US $ 4.80 million, Actual US$ 1.05 million).
This component aimed to support: (i) four pilots of user-centered aquifer level groundwater management; and
(ii) four pilots of innovative irrigated agriculture. The scale of this component was reduced to US$ 2 million at the Mid
Term Review by cancellation of one of the ground water pilots and all of the irrigated agriculture pilots (because of
difficulties in finalizing MOUs), leaving with remaining three pilots. The contracted cost of the works was lower than
planned.

D: Project Management (Appraisal Estimate US $ 4.02 million, Actual US$ 3.14 million):
This component planned to support: (i) the state level Project Preparation and Management Unit (PPMIJ); (ii)
monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) an information, education, and communication campaign to create awareness
about the project initiatives.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Costs:
Project cost estimated at appraisal was US$ 393.8 million and the actual cost at closing was US$ 329.7 million, 84 %
of the appraisal estimate. The decline in project costs was partially due to savings resulting from depreciation of
Rupee; but the ICR did not provide explanation of other reasons for this decline.

Financing:
The project was financed by a US$ 325.0 million IBRD loan and at project closure US$ 298.3 million was disbursed
from the loan and US$ 15.0 million was cancelled and the US$ 11.7 million that was left undisbursed was cancelled
after the project closed.

Borrower Contribution :
The Borrower contribution planned at appraisal was US$ 61.15 million and local farmer organizations were planned to
contribute US$ 7.62 million. The ICR did not provide information on the actual figures for Borrower and local farmer
contributions.

Dates:
In March 2012, the project's original closing date of March 31, 2012 was extended by two years to March 28, 2014 in
order to enable further consolidation and deepening of completed/on-going water sector reform initiatives, including
transfer of irrigation management to WUAs; completion of restructuring of MKVDC into a river basin agency; and
completion of on-going dam safety works as well as canal rehabilitation works that took longer than anticipated.

In March 2014, a second Level 2 restructuring was carried out by allocating funds to the civil works category, from
other categories in order to match the work plan. However, the ICR did not provide information on why civil works
category required more funds. Also, because of the large decline in the Rupee (by about 40%) over the life of the
project and the government's inability to utilize these savings, US$15.0 million of the loan was cancelled in February
27 2014. The project team stated that an additional US$ 11.7 million was cancelled from the Loan on August 19,
2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives
High
Project development objectives were highly relevant to country priorities and strategies. The recent Country
Partnership Strategy (FY13-17) includes the outcomes of 'improved access to water supply and sanitation services'
and 'increased agricultural productivity'. The CPS states that (p. 34) the focus of Bank strategy is to increase
agricultural water use efficiency, strengthening water-related institutions, and to build the state and national capacity
for the management of irrigation systems.
At the time of appraisal in the state of Maharashtra competition for water among different sectors had increased
dramatically and a long-term multi-sectoral management of the State’s water resources was necessary Furthermore,
the quality of irrigation service delivery was poor, with only 30% of water released at the head being delivered to the
end user. Planning and management of water resources in the State was un-coordinated. Limited cost recovery in the
irrigation sector contributed to inefficient on-farm use of irrigation water, which added to the state’s fiscal burden (ICR
p. 1).

The project objectives were also aligned with the government water sector policies and institutional and regulatory
reforms. The ICR noted that (p.1) the Maharashtra State Water Policy, which was adopted in 2003, included a
framework for the development and management of water resources in the State. Also, the Maharashtra Water
Resources Regulatory Act of 2005 established a water sector regulatory institution, Maharashtra Water Resources
Regulatory Authority (the first in India), to decide on the water entitlement for different water users and to decide
water tariffs in a transparent manner. Furthermore, the government enacted the Maharashtra Management of
Irrigation Systems by Farmers Act of 2005, which established the basis for the eventual transfer of irrigation system
management to Water User Associations (WUAs). Finally, the government initiated the restructuring of the Water
Resources Department and Irrigation Development Corporations to establish coordinated and multi-sectoral planning,
development and management of state water resources in a basin context.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The statement of objectives was clear and measurable, however, overall, the results framework was incomplete in its
presentation of a logical causal chain between project activities and expected attainment of the objective. Project
development objective of strengthening the capacity of Maharashtra for multi-sectoral planning, development, and
sustainable management of the water resources; and improving irrigation service delivery and productivity of irrigated
agriculture, were to be supported by capacity building activities, participatory rehabilitation and modernization of
selected irrigation schemes, as well as implementation of several innovate pilots on irrigated agriculture. The first
three components included the respective activities and project resources were adequate in general to achieve the
objective. However,the design lacked an effective instrument to further the required institutional mechanisms for
multi-sectoral coordination particularly restructuring of the Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation. The
Project team subsequently noted that it might have been wise to set an up-front condition that the legislative
amendments (and mechanisms) necessary to enable the establishment of MKVWRC be implemented instead of
putting this as a covenanted requirement. Furthermore, the design lacked a mechanism to ensure a fundamental
change in government procedures to establish sufficient O&M funding for the rehabilitated and modernized irrigation
schemes.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
    There are two objectives: (i) to strengthen the capacity of Maharashtra for multi-sectoral planning, development,
and sustainable management of the water resources; and (ii) to improve irrigation service delivery and productivity of
irrigated agriculture.

(i) Strengthen the capacity of Maharashtra for multi -sectoral planning, development, and sustainable management
of the water resources ; rated, Substantial.

Outputs
         315 training courses (88 % of the target), seminars and workshops were conducted for Water Resources
Department Staff, farmers and WUA personnel and in total 23,489 participants benefited (102% of target).
          An integrated Computer Information System under the Water Resources Department (WRD) was
established. This was originally planned as a Management Information System but later became an e-governance
project covering 726 WRD offices as well as serving many other beneficiaries, including other government
departments, citizens, farmers, WUAs, industries, media, etc
.
Intermediate Outcomes :
         User-centered aquifer level groundwater management in three pilot areas . One of the pilots was dropped
because it required surface water through a new irrigation development, which is not a part of this project. Pilots were
significantly scaled up under a separate Bank supported intervention that was implemented over the period
2013-2019.
         The project strengthened the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI), which conducted training
courses that benefited about 24,000 people, including WRD managers and technical staff, WUA management
committee members, and NGOs.
         Integrated Computer Information Systems (ICIS) activities have enhanced the state water resources
planning capability through the provision of real-time information and communication to senior policy makers. 10,000
person hours of training was provided under the project regarding the system.

Outcomes
The ICR listed several outcome indicators that included restructuring of several institutions as identified below. The
key outcome is not whether the restructuring was conducted or not, but whether the capacity for multi-sectoral
planning, development and management of water resources was achieved.

          Establishment of Maharashtra Water Resources Authority (MWRRA): This PDO indicator was achieved.
MWRRA was established in August 2005 and its capacity was developed over the course of the project. The
institution carried out functions including setting water charges, establishing criteria for water rights, regulating
development of water resources in river basins, and monitoring of the bulk entitlement program and dispute
resolution. There was no indicator measuring how well these functions were implemented.
          Restructuring of Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation (MKVDC): This PDO indicator was
not achieved. The objective was to restructure MKVDC into the Water Resources Corporation (MKVWRC), as a river
basin agency with a newly assigned role of preparing basin plans for the Krishna Basin. The GoM drafted an
amendment to the existing Act. However, the amendment had not been enacted at the time of closing and the
restructuring MKVDC remained a work in progress. However, the task team subsequently noted that although the new
institution had not been set up yet, the functions planned under the project (preparing river basin plans) were being
carried out by the existing institution (MKVDC).
          Restructuring of Water Resources Department (WRD): The restructuring was completed, even though later
than planned. The restructuring included a clear separation of water development functions from water management
functions. With the establishment of WUAs, a partnership between WRD and WUAs developed. However, further
reforms are required to strengthen this partnership, which would improve irrigation system performance through
proper operation and maintenance (O&M).
          Through the ground water pilots, principles of assessing, developing and sustainably managing groundwater
on an aquifer basis, rather than the earlier watershed basis, was incorporated in the new Maharashtra Groundwater
Development and Management Act.
          The Integrated Computer Information system provided real time data to be used for improved water planning
and decision making and it provided time saving as of project closure (before the project it ranged from 15 days to 2
months to collect data- ICR p. 24).


(ii) Improve irrigation service delivery and productivity of irrigated agriculture , rated Substantial based on evidence
that there have been productivity and income gains achieved for the project beneficiaries compared to the control
group in general and also improved water delivery and water use efficiency for the project beneficiaries.

Outputs
        1704 Water User Associations (WUAs) were established (slightly below the target of 1,708).
        121 Distributory Level Associations (DLAs) were established (above target of 113)
        33 Main and Branch Level Canal Associations (CLAs) were established (above the target of 10).
        42 Scheme Level Associations were established (achieved the target of 44).
        Capacity building of 1,508 WUAs was completed under the project with initial training provided to 1, 367
WUAs. (91 % of target). Seven NGOs were appointed for 3 years for the capacity building activities.
        A total of 1,120 buildings were completed for the WUAs (less than the target of 1,704). The main reason
given by the ICR for the gap is that in most cases WUAs were unwilling to contribute the 15 % of building cost (p. ).
        Rehabilitation works included re-sectioning of canal lining, repairs to structures, and installation of measuring
devices. Canal rehabilitation work was conducted with the full participation of WUAs. Quality control of the works was
assessed by an independent organization.
        Agricultural Support Services were provided to 66 schemes (against the target of 38), covering an area of
481,000 ha (target of 450,000 ha). The Project conducted 32,500 demonstrations (exceeded the target of 10,000
demonstrations) that covered 92,604 ha (or 24% of the Gross Irrigated Area of the project). The Project also trained
763,650 farmers, 20 % of whom were female.
        320 training sessions were provided to both master trainers who are field level department staff and to
extension service providers (NGOs, lead farmers, input sellers etc.), which altogether covered about 8,350 persons
(about 46% were department staff).
        Under the Agro Entrepreneurship Development Program, a total of 362 projects were approved, mainly on
post-harvest management (139), farm service provision (66), innovations (63) and agro processing (50). Actual starts
numbered 336 for which the average investment was close to Indian Rupees 1.4 million (about US$ 23,000).
Entrepreneurs contributed close to 60% of this amount. Of the 336 projects, 58 were able to obtain financing from
Banks. It was estimated that this program benefited about 13,000 farmers and created close to 3,000 jobs. The
program is being scaled up under the World Bank funded Agriculture Competitiveness Project.

Intermediate Outcomes
         Increase in the gross area irrigated was 129,305 ha which was 129 % of the target.
         Cultural command area of irrigation schemes covered 608,000 ha, which was 91 % of the target. Works in 5
minor schemes could not be completed, but the ICR did not provide reasons for that.
         266 dams were rehabilitated, which was 91 % of the target.
         After completion of minor level canal rehabilitation, the management of the systems was transferred to 1,202
WUAs covering an area of 507,496 ha (less than the target with 79% of the culturable command area).
         The project presented completion of WUA elections to assess whether WUAs were functional and 93 % of
the target of 1,509 WUAs was achieved. Even though the ICR notes that (p. 13), there are risks to the sustainability of
WUAs, it does not explain what those risks are. The project team subsequently stated that the risk is related to the
need to continue post-project with training and capacity building of these relatively immature organizations. Also, the
ICR is silent about how the O&M efforts are handled, and whether sufficient water charges can be collected by the
WUAs compared to O&M costs.
         236 schemes implemented volumetric charging and bulk water supply as per entitlement (the target of 6 has
was significantly exceeded).The plan was to implement 6 schemes as a pilot but the ICR reported that (p. v) the initial
pilot was so successful that there was considerable up scaling under the project to 236 schemes covering 1341
WUAs.
         Revenue collection performance (water charge collected/water charge invoiced) for irrigation water increased
from 45 % to 62 % compared to the target of 54 % (which is above the target by 114%). The largest increase was for
minor schemes (from 36 % to 61 %), followed by major schemes, however medium schemes experienced a reduction
from 49 % to 36 %. The ICR did not provide the reasons for the lower revenue performance for the medium schemes.
Also, these figures show that there is a long way to reach 100 %, i.e. to collect all the water charges that is invoiced.
         Revenue collection performance for all water users (irrigation, drinking and industrial water) improved from
the baseline value of 52.3 % to 79.5 % (above the target of 63 %).
         As a result of agricultural support services (including improved inputs), reported cropping intensity grew from
a baseline figure of 120% to 130 % in 2012-13. Also, on 287,000 ha (77 % of the gross irrigated area) better farming
practices such as mulching sugar cane, are being employed. Furthermore, Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and
Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) were introduced in 168 schemes the results were: reduction in average use of
inorganic fertilizer from about 200 kg/ha to less than 150 kg/ha and increase in organic fertilizer from 10.5 t/ha to 13.7
t/ha. Average use of chemical pesticides dropped from 1.8 lit/Ha to 1.5 lit/Ha. On the other hand use of bio-pesticides
has increased from 1.1 lit/ha to 2.6 lit/ha. The crops in which technologies were adopted on the broadest scale include
sugarcane, cotton, soybean, and gram. The ICR did not provide any targets for these outputs.

Outcomes
         Water delivery efficiency (total annual volume of irrigation water delivered to user groups/total annual
volume of irrigation water released at head*100) increased from 31.2 % to 60.9%, representing an increase of 95 %
over the baseline (slightly below the 100 % target).
        Water use efficiency at key levels of irrigation systems was achieved:
        For scheme level 147 ha/cubic meter (above the target of 125 ha/cubic meter)
        For distributary level 260 ha/cubic meter (above the target of 190 ha/cubic meter)
        For minor level 270 ha/cubic meter (above the target of 238 ha/cubic meter)
        Incremental Value of Overall Crop Production was 162 % above baseline (the target was 30 % over
baseline). However, the ICR did not provide control group comparisons. Also, it was not clear which crops were
included, how much was due to the yield improvements for the existing crops, and how much for switching to high
value crops. This information did not indicate the differential increase in productivity as a result of the project.
        Incomes improved more than the target for the beneficiaries at the middle (50 % over baseline) and tail
sections (109 % over the baseline) of the irrigation schemes but not the head section (lower than the target but 11 %
higher than the baseline). (Control group comparisons showed a decrease in incomes over baseline with -55 %, -18%
and -32 % for head, middle and tail sections, respectively). The ICR did not provide reasons for why the income
increase was lower than the target for the head section. However, the project team subsequently stated that through
the project efforts, tail end users were reached in a more effective way. Also, before the project the middle and tail
land areas were relatively under developed compared to the head areas. Project interventions improved irrigation
services at the middle and particularly the tail reaches, providing more opportunities for these farmers to improve their
incomes more than the farmers at the head section.
         The ICR reported (p. 31) increases in yields over the baseline (8% for cereals to over 100% for fruits and
vegetables). However, productivity gains in the control groups were higher for cereals at 28% - recognizing that
control baseline yields (1.2 t/ha) were much lower than project baseline yields (1.6 t/ha). Based on the control group
comparisons that the project team subsequently provided, project yields were higher than control group comparisons
in general, with one exception (black gram). Although for some crops such as millet, paddy and nuts, yields declined
for project beneficiaries after the baseline, This could also be a result of very high baseline yields for these crops
compared to control group figures.




       In addition, the project achieved significant diversification in terms of a shift in cropping patterns, primarily
away from paddy and into cash crops (cotton and sugar cane). The percentage of area under cereals declined from
about 50% of the command pre-project to 37% post-project, while the area under cash crops increased from 11 % to
29%.

 5. Efficiency:
  Modest.
The ex-ante level economic and financial analysis included 17 representative sample schemes, drawn to represent
four major river basins and seven agro-climatic regions. With and without project data and farm-model: for each
scheme, field level data on crop production and resource management were collected, which served as the basis for
crop budgets used for estimating the incremental costs and benefits at scheme level. Scheme specific data on water
supply, irrigation service and rehabilitation investments were also collected. Crop output was estimated to increase as
a result of a shift from partially irrigated or from rainfed fallow lands to fully irrigated conditions.. The crop yield
increases were estimated to range between 5 % to 20%, and cropping pattern shifts to higher value crops ranged
between 2% to 10% of the area, after project completion. Project costs and benefits were estimated at 2004 prices
over a period of 25 years, with 12% taken as opportunity cost of capital. Full costs of irrigation service delivery and
management were included.

Based on these assumptions, the ERR for the project was estimated to be 27.4% with a net present value (NPV) of
Rs. 5 billion. For the schemes grouped by size, the estimated ERRs are as follows: major schemes 27.3 %, medium
schemes 25.0%, and minor schemes 29.8%. (The appraisal ERR is a recalculation shown in the ICR p. 40).

The ICR followed the same methodology but made revisions to cost and benefit assumptions, as the actual figures
were used for project cost, irrigated area and yields. The ERR figures calculated by the ICR were lower than the
PAD's. The ERR for the project was estimated at 20.8% and the ERR for major schemes was calculated at 26.2 %, for
medium schemes 18 % and minor schemes 19 %.

The project team also subsequently reported that based on Government's Completion Report, water use efficiency
increased from 96 (ha/cubic meter) to 133 (ha/cubic meter) and water delivery efficiency increased from 31.2 % to
62.5 %.

However, the ICR lacked a more comprehensive analysis of water efficiency at different levels including farm level
(e.g. based on land allocation, and/or type of irrigation system) and regional allocation. Although the PAD signaled an
intention to examine rates of return to water, and noted improved water productivity as an important driver in financial
and economic analysis, no indicators or analysis were included on this aspect. The ICR also did not present any
analysis on cost recovery of project investments (water revenues collected over O&M costs).

Although the economic rates of returns are higher than the opportunity cost of capital, due to lack of a more
comprehensive analysis on water efficiency, including cost recovery, the efficiency of achieving the project
development objective is rated as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                     27.4%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                     20.8%                                    100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
         There were moderate shortcomings in achievement of development outcomes. Although the project
development objectives were highly relevant to country strategies and priorities, the design lacked two important
pieces: a mechanism to establish government commitment for the restructuring of the Maharashtra Krishna Valley
Development Corporation (MKVDC), as well as to ensure a fundamental change in government procedures to set up
sufficient O&M funding for the rehabilitated and modernized irrigation schemes. Therefore, relevance of design was
rated modest. Achievement of the objective to strengthen the capacity of Maharashtra for multi-sectoral planning,
development, and sustainable management of the water resources; is rated substantial due to the fact that although
establishment of the Water Resources Corporation (MKVWRC) has not been completed, its envisaged function of
river basin planning is being carried out by the existing institution. Achievement of the objective to improve irrigation
service delivery and productivity of irrigated agriculture is rated Substantial, based on evidence that productivity and
income gains have been achieved for the project beneficiaries compared to the control group in general and also
water delivery and water use efficiency have been improved for the project beneficiaries. Efficiency is rated modest,
due to lack of a more comprehensive analysis of water efficiency in general other than the economic rates of return
reported by the ICR.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There is moderate risk to development outcome. The ICR noted (p. 14) continued political commitment of the
government to pursue water sector reforms particularly on transfer of irrigation system management to WUAs and to
bulk supply and volumetric charging of irrigation water to WUAs as per their water entitlements and through effective
involvement of WUAs.

Nevertheless, there seems to be risks associated with the sustainability of WUAs. On the positive side, distribution
systems for irrigation management have been handed over to 80% of the WUAs and necessary legal backing and
incentives are in place to sustain WUAs and enable them to perform their mandated functions Most WUAs have
permanent offices and GoM is committed to providing permanent offices to the remaining WUAs. In March 2014, the
government issued a Government order to establish a permanent unit for continued training.

However, the ICR acknowledges risks to sustainability of WUAs (p. 13), but does not give details of these risks. In
particular, the ICR is silent about financial sustainability of WUAs and their ability to maintain and manage irrigation
assets and service delivery. The ICR is also silent regarding whether water charges will be rationally determined by
the regulatory agency and whether such charges can be efficiently collected by the WUAs to cover the full O&M costs
in order to ensure sustainability beyond the project.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
      Before the project appraisal in 2003, the Bank started to provide additional technical assistance and
knowledge support to the Government in order to help strengthen the enabling policy, regulatory and institutional
environment for the water sector, which paved the way for the project. Project preparation efforts were backed by
a public expenditure diagnostic, which helped clarify water sector issues faced by the State.

Project design was in general relevant with clear and well stated objectives and project components linked to
achieve the objectives. However, the design was overly complex with many components as well as many
agencies that were involved in project implementation making coordination difficult. Also the project lacked a
mechanism to maintain government commitment to the restructuring of MKVDC, as well as to establish a
fundamental change in government procedures to set up sufficient O&M funding for the rehabilitated and
modernized irrigation schemes.

During appraisal the following risks were identified: (i) sustained commitment by the government to the reforms
and restructuring of the water sector institutions, particularly the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory
Authority (MWRRA), and Water Resources Department (WRD) as well as to implement participatory irrigation
management and WUAs to assume responsibilities for the management of the systems transferred to them; (ii)
the ability of the government to provide the required counterpart funding; (iii) effective delivery of agricultural
support services to help ensure that projected agricultural productivity increases in the project area are achieved.
The risk mitigation initiatives were: (i) establishment of key legal and policy frameworks earlier in the initial stages
of the project; which included the adopted 2003 Maharashtra State Water Policy and the enacted laws of 2005
MWRRA Act, and 2005 MMISF Act that particularly promoted participatory irrigation management and transfer of
irrigation system management to farmers. Also the project included components for capacity building of
government agencies and stakeholders as well as WUAs. (ii) A public expenditure review of the water sector was
completed to assess the fiscal impact and ensure adequate fiscal space for counterpart funding for the project.(iii)
For agricultural support services, the project included activities to support the scaling up of a decentralized
community-based approach to agricultural services delivery. However, risk mitigation efforts particularly on
counterpart financing proved to be insufficient, as it was a persistent problem. Furthermore, the project
underestimated the risks associated with the restructuring of MKVDC.

The M&E system had several issues, some of the outcome indicators were not clear nor designed to adequately
measure the achievement of the project objectives (See Section 10).

In light of the above mentioned shortcomings in project design, lack of adequate risk mitigation mechanisms
particularly to address the risk of restructuring of institutions and weakness of the M&E system, the Quality of
Entry is rated as 'moderately unsatisfactory'.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
       The ICR reported (p. 16), seventeen supervision and implementation support missions over the life of the
project. The same task team leader provided leadership (except the last supervision mission), while this created
continuity in project supervision. Also, as the core Bank team was based in Delhi, frequent contact with the
Borrower could be made and issues were resolved on a timely manner. In addition to technical experts, specialists
on FM, procurement, environmental management and social development were consistently part of the core Bank
supervision missions throughout the project, in day-to-day follow-up, and interaction with the PPMU. The ICR
noted that adequate guidance on critical issues and implementation was provided by the team through detailed
aide memoires and guidance notes/annexes and informal follow up visits.

The Mid-Term Review identified the need for project restructuring which was completed in a timely manner.
Although the Bank downgraded the project to moderately satisfactory and continued the dialogue with the
government in order to address the non-compliance with the covenant regarding the restructuring of MKVDC, the
issue still had not been resolved at project closing.

The ICR reports that a persistent problem that was not adequately addressed during supervision was the setting
up of the M&E unit within the Project Preparation Management Unit to analyze quarterly reports prepared by the
M&E consultant. Another issue was that the problems with the M&E framework were not resolved during
supervision.

The project team also noted the failure by the Bank to take early action on restructuring the project to utilize better
the considerable savings from currency variations, which resulted in US$15 million of loan proceeds being
cancelled only 2 weeks before the extended closing date.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :
                                                  Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     The ICR notes that (p. 16), the reforms started by the Government in 2003 and continued thereafter
established the necessary policy and regulatory frameworks for the water sector. For the most part the
Government satisfactorily implemented these reforms. However, the legal covenant to restructure MKVDC into a
fully functioning river basin agency (MKVWRC) was not complied with. Yet the government implemented some of
the activities planned for the new agency under the existing institutional structure, e.g., developing water
resources plans with a river basin concept. But delays in the contribution for counter-part funding negatively
affected project implementation.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The lead implementing agency was the Water Resources Department (WRD) with management support
provided by the multi-disciplinary Project Preparation and Management Unit (PPMU). The Agriculture Department
(AD) and Water Supply and Sanitation Department were the executing agencies together with WRD. The AD
implemented the agriculture support services activities. The Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI)
provided training and capacity building for Water User Associations. The ICR notes that (p. 17), all the
implementing agencies contributed to achievement of project outputs and outcomes. The fiduciary and safeguard
aspects of the project were implemented in compliance with Bank requirements. Issues identified by Bank
missions were generally addressed in a timely manner, e.g., FM reporting, speedier implementation of the dam
safety component, and quality control of civil works implementation. However, the PPMU suffered from staff
shortages in key areas. The ICR did not provide details about the nature of staff shortages and their
consequences. The project team subsequently stated that staff shortages, particularly for Financial Management
was a persistent problem that was raised in mission aid memoires and management letters. Failure to build the
required capacity for M&E and to utilize the data from the third party M&E consultant as well as inability to properly
coordinate and sequence investment with capacity building, particularly of WUAs were other shortcomings.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
       The project would have benefited from a more thoughtful framing of key indicators and the results framework to
establish a clearer link to the achievement of the PDOs. For example one indicator measured whether several
institutions were restructured, which is an output. It would have been more useful and a closer proxy to the Project
objective if an indicator measuring the effectiveness of multi-sectoral planning and management of water resources
was adopted. The project monitored incremental income increase as well as incremental value of crop production but
indicators were not designed to show control group comparisons. Furthermore, the project did not monitor cost
recovery of irrigation investments in order to capture financial sustainability of WUAs. In addition, some confusion
was apparent in the use of identical indicators for PDO outcome and intermediate outcome/outputs.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Overall, M&E activities were driven entirely by external consultants, who worked relatively independently towards a
common end objective. End of project impacts were compiled from data that tracked the same households over the
course of the project (quarterly) from baseline survey to the final household survey, with a control group. However,
there was lack of effort in development of institutional capacity for M&E within the PPMU and the implementation
agencies for continuous review of M&E quality and internalization.

c. M&E Utilization:
     The ICR noted that (p. 8) there is little evidence that the M&E system was purposefully used in dynamic decision
making for management purposes. The project team subsequently stated that because of the lack of institutional
mechanism at PPMU level, the data was not analyzed or used as an input into the overall project management and
decision making processes.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category A in terms of environmental safeguards due to the spatial scale of investment,
the new nature of some of the activities, the possible cumulative impacts of multiple components in the scheme area
and high number of safeguard policies triggered. The following Safeguard Policies were triggered: Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Pest Management (OP 4.09), Cultural Property (OP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement
(OP/BP 4.12), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37).

The ICR reported that (p. 9) the Social and Environmental Management Framework (SEMF) provided a basis too
address environmental and social issues in a programmatic manner. Also, social and environmental management
plans (SEMP) were prepared for each scheme included in the project, and took into account the respective framework
and strategies for key issues. i.e., Dam Safety, Pest Management, Resettlement, Tribal and Gender Development and
Community Participation. A model tribal development plan for one of the sub-projects was also prepared. The project
supported the preparation of an Operational Manual, which included the Social Audit tool on Social and Environment
Management. The Manual was based on consultations with stakeholders and engineers. Two dissemination
workshops on the ‘Social and Environment Management Framework’ were conducted and the Operational Manual
was used by WRD in all state projects.

The ICR reported that (p. 9) the project was in compliance with the social safeguard polices (Indigenous Peoples,
Involuntary Settlement and Cultural Property). Overall, 41 Tribal Development Plans were implemented to improve the
representation of tribes in WUAs, which also enabled them to access project benefits in an equal manner. Application
of the SEMF to each of the 235 schemes facilitated the determination of any adverse impacts on households.
Screening reports regarding the implementation of SEMF noted that no acquisition of private land assets were
required to implement the irrigation sub-projects. An independent assessment confirmed that none of the 149 families
at Mula were adversely affected by the rehabilitation of the canal network.

The project was also reported to be in compliance with the Dam Safety Policy as the work programs for each dam
were implemented satisfactorily. Three Expert Dam Safety Review Panels were established and provided sound
professional oversight during project implementation.

The project was also reported to be compliant with the pest management policy, as each irrigation scheme SEMP
included the development of separate pest and nutrient management strategies that were successfully applied.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
ICR noted that (p. 10), Financial Management (FM) was in compliance with Bank policies and procedures. The
Project's FM system used the Government's accounting and reporting systems and a Financial Management Manual
helped standardize accounting procedures across the three implementing entities. However, FM implementation
proved to be challenging as three government departments were implementing in a large number of accounting
locations at the district level. There were delays in responding to auditors' comments and requests and internal audits
did not add value as they were in general a repetition of the external audit findings. The ICR did not include FM related
ratings and independent audit results.

The ICR reported that (p.9) procurement was carried out in accordance with the agreed Bank procedures, and there
were few complaints despite the large number of schemes and highly decentralized implementation of procurement.
Training on procurement and contract management was provided to communities and implementing agencies
throughout the implementation period. However, there was the issue of inability to coordinate procurement planning
with the detailed engineering plans, which resulted in poor procurement management performance, as there were
serious delays, cost escalations, termination of some contracts and the rebidding for small works. The ICR did not
report specific procurement related ratings and whether there were any improvements towards project closing.
However, it was noted that the project needed to improve contract estimates through making use of existing market
prices from recently completed contracts; as well as to include provisions for additional requirements based on
specific site conditions and the cost of management and supervision.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The following lessons were noted by the ICR, the main ones are as follows with some reformulation elaboration of
the language:

          Broad sector-wide institutional reforms involving multiple implementing agencies need significant up -front
political commitment and effective Bank dialogue with government including technical assistance support so as to
have the key legal, policy and legislative frameworks in place early on .

         M&E systems should focus on building client capacity rather than solely relying on consultants . Capacity
building should include training and investment in computerized systems as well.

        The effectiveness of large infrastructure investments to rehabilitate /modernize irrigation systems for
improved water use efficiency and productivity will be considerably enhanced by the inclusion of a well -designed
and well-implemented agricultural support services component . This component should support farmers in
improving cropping and cropping systems.

         Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities are important for complex projects that
include policy and institutional changes. In order to make them more effective, they should be designed as an
integral part of a particular component or sub-component.

        A fundamental change in government procedures is needed in order to establish sufficient O &M funding
for rehabilitated and modernized irrigation schemes . Project design should include measures and activities to
achieve this change . A fundamental change in government procedures is needed to address the disconnect
between a) increased water charges and collections that reflect full O&M costs and b) low budget allocations for
O&M.
14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided a good narration of implementation progress and challenges. However, it also lacked several
important aspects, therefore it is rated as Satisfactory, but only marginally so. The weaknesses were : (i) total project
costs and the borrower contribution at project closing were not shown; (ii) the reasons for lower than planned costs
were not clear; (iii) the reasons for the rating of achievement of the second project objective, particularly with regard to
the sustainability of WUAs and O&M efforts, were not clear; (iv) reporting of some indicators did not include control
group comparisons and reports on productivity and income increases were vague; (iv) the efficiency analysis did not
include a comprehensive analysis measuring water efficiency; (v) the ICR failed to report on problems with the
outcome indicators; (vi) Some lessons were not described well (e.g. O&M related lesson); (vii) the ICR failed to report
on procurement ratings or audits.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
