 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14740

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Ecuador
             Project ID: P094784                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Ec Chimborazo                  Project Costs (US$M):                      23.30                21.17
                         Development
                         Investment Project
                         (pidd)
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       15.30                15.02
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               12/06/2007
                                                               Closing Date:            09/30/2013         06/30/2014
           Sector(s):      Irrigation and drainage (62%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (29%);
                           Sub-national government administration (9%)
          Theme(s):        Other rural development (40%); Rural services and infrastructure (40%); Other environment
                           and natural resources management (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Soniya Carvalho         Christopher David           IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                        Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

"To increase production and market access of rural families living in the Chambo and Chanchan –Chimbo river basins
in the Borrower's territory, through investments in irrigation and roads improvement." (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
page 5).

The project development objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 6) was slightly different
and used ".within Chimborazo Province..." rather than "..in the Borrower's Territory."

In line with IEG practice, this review is based on the development objective as stated in the Loan Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:


Component One: Productive Investments . Appraisal estimate US$20.40 million (of which US$13.2 million was IBRD
loan). Actual cost US$20.10 million, approximately 98% of the appraisal estimate. This component, which financed
two infrastructure systems of the rural economy, had two sub-components.

(1) Irrigation Rehabilitation and Improvements Appraisal estimate US$12.10 million (of which US$9.0 million was
IBRD loan), Actual cost US$10.83 million, approximately 89% of the appraisal estimate. This component aimed at
rehabilitating and modernizing the irrigation systems. Activities financed included: (i) irrigation works (such as canal
linings, water intake structures, small regulating reservoirs, and complementary environmental investments such as
soil conservation works and mitigation measures for addressing adverse environmental impacts). (ii) strengthening
the Water Users Associations (WUAs) capacity for operating, maintaining and administering the systems (including
the training of WUA’s in technical aspects related to Operations and Management (O&M), on-farming irrigation and
cultivation techniques for different crops including high-value crops, and their processing and marketing). WUAs were
expected to share the cost of feasibility studies (10% cash payable in advance), and the cost of civil works (including
20% in kind in the form of unskilled labor and 5% cash).
.
(2) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance : Appraisal estimate US$8.30 million (of which US$4.2 million was IBRD
loan): Actual cost US$9.27 million, approximately 112% of the appraisal estimate. This sub component financed the
rehabilitation and maintenance of 125 km or roads selected based on the basis of the prioritized road matrix created
for the Provincial Participatory Road Plan in 2003. Activities included: (i) Rehabilitation of the Riobamba- Cebadas
road and Chricando-Turuamba road segments (approximately 35 km and 25.5 long respectively). and (ii) undertaking
necessary road maintenance works by the Chimborazo Provincial Council (CHPC), and the contracted micro
enterprises. These maintenance activities were to be financed by counterpart funds.

Component Two: Project Management : Appraisal estimate US$1.70 million (of which US$1.4 million was IBRD loan).
Actual cost US$1.07 million, approximately 63% of the appraisal estimate. Activities included project management
support in (i) Coordination and management. (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).(iii) Communication strategy for
disseminating results and implementation progress to the relevant stakeholders.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: At appraisal, the estimated cost (including physical and price contingencies) was US$23.34 million (of
which US$21.17 million was IBRD loan). Actual cost at closure, was US$21.17 million, approximately 91% of the
appraisal estimate. The actual cost of irrigation and road works proved to be 262% and 131% higher than the
appraisal estimate. In the case of irrigation works, the actual cost of ensuring water availability and gaining levels to
pressurize networks and increasing the system’s resilience to extreme events through water intake structures was
higher than expected, and in the case of road works, the unit cost of construction was underestimated at appraisal.
(ICR, page 6). The higher than expected costs was met through a combination of factors, including adjustments in
physical targets, reallocation of funds between project categories, and more than planned counterpart funding.

Project Financing: The original approved IBRD loan amount was US$15.30 million. At completion, US$15.02 million
had been disbursed, and US$0.26 million was cancelled. There was parallel financing for complementary activities.
The activities included, a US$4.0 million from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) for a partially blended operation
in Chimborazo Province – “Management of Natural Resources.”, and from the Japanese Social Development fund
(JSDF) –“Improved Access to Markets for Small Farmers of Chimborazo." The CHPC was to be responsible for
coordinating the three operations under a single, integrated Operational Manual. The ICR (page 7) reports that the
Bank transferred the GEF to Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), due to the “difficult country relationship of the
period and the lack of a current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The submission of the JSDF grant was
postponed (discussed in section 8b).

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower's contribution was estimated at US$5.07 million, and at closure, their
contribution was more than planned at US$5.72 million. The team clarified that the contribution of the beneficiaries
and local communities in cash and kind at closure was more than planned at US$2.1 million as compared to the
appraisal estimate of lUS$1.34 million.

Dates. The project underwent two level two restructuring (ICR, page 4). The first, approved by the Regional Vice
President (RVP) on June 2012, and in accordance with the findings of the Mid Term Review on November 2010,
made the following changes:
  The results framework was modified and the original targets were revised downwards in view of the
    underestimation of costs at appraisal (also discussed in Section 2d, 5 and 8a). The number of irrigation systems
    to be rehabilitated was reduced from 265 to 55 and the number of beneficiary families was reduced from 17,500
    to 7,990.
  The location of the targeted road segments was changed due to the government’s decision to finance part of the
    originally planned roads using national funds. The ICR (page 4) notes that alternative funds was available under
    the Central Government’s Emergency Roads Plan. Hence, one road segment which was to be project financed
    (Riobamba- Cebadas approximately 35 km long), was financed by the Government. And substitute road
    segments were (about 50.4 km long) selected.
  Funds were reallocated from component Two (project management) activities to Component One (Irrigation
    Rehabilitation and Road Rehabilitation) activities.
  The project financing plan was updated.
  The name of the Borrower was changed from the Chimborazo Provincial Council to Decentralized Autonomous
       Government of Chimborazo Province (DAGCHP).

The second Level Two restructuring approved by the Country Director (CD) on June 18, 2012, extended the project
closing date by nine months from September 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014, for completing several large irrigation sub
projects.




    3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

    a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

The project development objective was and continues to be relevant to the current Government strategy and the
World Bank Group Strategy for Ecuador. The Government's Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries National Irrigation
Plan (2012-2017) identified the need for improving the lives of farmers and rural communities through: (i) social
inclusion and links to national and international markets.(ii) access to the benefits of improved infrastructure and
services, and (iii) modernized farming methods and practices. The Bank's Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Ecuador
(April 9, 2013) identified agriculture and rural development as ongoing, key priorities for Ecuador.

At the appraisal stage, the project development objective was relevant to the province of Chimborazo’s development
priorities, as articulated in the “ Minga (participative work) for Life” plan. The second pillar of the plan identified the
need for accelerating the development of the local economy and increasing its productivity through integrated
management of a provincial road network and establishment of an integrated management plan for the irrigation
system (such as through improving and constructing main irrigation systems, rehabilitating community irrigation
infrastructure, optimizing the management of these systems with community participation, and through providing
technical and administrative training for improving these systems) (PAD, page 6).

At the appraisal stage, the project development objective was relevant to the Bank strategy for Ecuador. The Bank
Country Assistance strategy (CAS) for Ecuador for the 2003-2007 period, identified the objective of broadening
access to resources and ensuring that reforms are sustainable, and highlighted the need for rural poverty alleviation
as a key target area for Ecuador (PAD, page 6). The Bank supported Ecuador Rural Development Strategy (2005)
identified supporting investments and services for equitable rural development as one of the four key areas of
strategic importance for the development of the rural economy (PAD, page 2). The other three key areas identified in
the strategy were: (a) enhancing agricultural competitiveness (b) creating an appropriate institutional setup for rural
development and (c) encouraging development in indigenous areas.

.

    b. Relevance of Design:


Substantial.

The statement of the project development objective is reasonably clear, and the linkages between the project
activities, their outputs and the intended outcome is logical: the intended outcomes were for the most part
measurable.

The outputs of the activities associated with the rehabilitating the irrigation systems in conjunction with strengthening
of the WUA's capacity for operating, maintaining and administering the systems can be expected to contribute to
increasing agricultural production. The outputs of the activities associated with rehabilitating the road network in
conjunction with providing for necessary road maintenance by CHPC and the micro enterprises can be expected to
increase market access. The two activities can together be expected to contribute to increased production and market
access in the project areas.

    4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The project development objective - "to increase production and market access of rural families living in the Chambo
and Chanchan –Chimbo river basins through investments in irrigation and roads improvement" is assessed as
Substantial:
Outputs:
    55 irrigation systems were rehabilitated. Availability of water at farm gate due to the irrigation systems increased
     on average from 48.5% in 2012 to 53% at project closure. This represented a 25.5% as compared to the revised
     target of 15% and as compared to the original target of 30%.
    72% of the participating WCA’s fully covered O&M costs as compared to the original target of 80%.
    88% of the participating WUA’s had strengthened their directive board due to the training program, as compared
     to the revised target of 80%, and as compared to the original target of 100%.
    20% of the beneficiaries had shifted from rain fed agriculture to improved irrigation systems as compared to the
     revised target of 33%.
    77 demonstration plots for cultivating high value crops were completed as compared to the original target of 15.
     Agricultural production value of high value crops on the demonstration plots increased by 37.5% as compared to
     the target of 30%.
    50.4 km of roads were rehabilitated as per the revised target and as compared to the original target of 125 km
     (ICR, page 38).
    16 Road Conservation Associations (RCA) were trained to organize road maintenance micro enterprises, as per
     the revised target.
    68 jobs were created by the road maintenance enterprises as compared to the revised target of 54.

Outcomes:


An Impact Evaluation study was conducted to estimate the project’s impact. The methodology followed two
approaches: (1) The baseline study was conducted in 2010, and this was followed by an evaluation of the irrigation
systems in 2012 and 2014. To evaluate the roads outcomes, vehicle flow was measured on the three rehabilitated
road segments. (2) Although a control group was not included in the original methodology, it was constructed ex post
to examine the impact of the project in the intervened area. The survey was administered through questionnaires to
water users, Presidents of WUA’s and road users identified randomly. The main conclusions of the impact evaluation
study are as follows.
    Annual production value at constant prices increased by 64% as compared to the target of 10% over the 55
     irrigation systems. At project closure In 2014, the value of agricultural production in the intervened areas was
     US$8.7 million as compared to US$5.3 million in 2010. At the farm level, 7,867 beneficiaries average value of
     production was US$1,177 at closure as compared to US$863 at baseline in the project intervened areas, and as
     compared to US$863 in the control group of families which did not receive any intervention.
    20% of the beneficiaries had shifted from rain fed agriculture to improved irrigation systems as compared to the
     revised target of 33%.
    Agricultural production value of high value crops on the demonstration plots increased by 37.5% as compared to
     the target of 30%.99.3 of the families had irrigation access at closure.
    Average family income increased from US$181.00 a month at baseline to US$323.00 a month at closing in the
     project intervened areas as compared to US$250.00 a month in the control group.
    Control group farmers were using mainly family labor and not contracting external labor. This contrasted with the
     treated group where, 6,239 jobs were created.
    WUAs started collecting irrigation fees for the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation systems. 72%
     of the 55 irrigation systems were collecting irrigation fees at closure as compared to the revised target of 80%.
    The vehicle operating cost decreased by 55% on the improved roads at project closure as compared to the target
     of 30%, and average travel time reduced by 38.3% at project closure as compared to the revised target of 30%.
    The frequency of trips on improved roads increased by 37% on the project intervened areas as compared to the
     pre-project situation. There was improved market access to basic services such as health, education and
     employment in the project intervened areas as compared to in the control group.
While it is impossible to gauge precisely the extent to which the irrigation activities and the road sector activities
contributed to the project development outcomes, it is reasonable to conclude that the activities contributed to
increasing production and market access of rural families living in the Chambo and Chanchan Chimbo river basins
through investments in irrigation and roads improvement.


5. Efficiency:
 Modest:

At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was conducted for the irrigation and roads component of the project, which
accounted for 92% of the total project cost (PAD, page 17). The methodology followed for the irrigation component of
the project was a Marginal Productivity Approach, which entailed estimating the Net Present Value (NPV) of increased
agricultural production due to increased availability due to better management of water resources.
The ex post evaluation for the irrigation component of the project showed an economic rate of return (EIRR) of
29.30%, as compared to the ex ante EIRR of 40%. Additional information provided by the team indicated that
although the ex post EIRR was lower than the appraisal estimate, the ex post EIRR compared favorably with the
EIRRs of 314 irrigation project implemented from 1967 to 2003 across fifty countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America
by the Bank, the African Development Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural Development. Results of the
analysis of the 314 irrigation projects published by the International Water Management Institute indicated an average
EIRR of 20% for irrigation projects.
The cost benefit analysis for roads component was done using the Highway Development Management (HDM- 4)
system. The benefits in the case of the road component were assumed to come from reductions in vehicle operating
costs and passenger time savings. The ex post evaluation for the road component showed a negative NPV of
US$5,387 as compared to the ex ante NPV of US$3,500 million. The team clarified that other important benefits of the
project such as, reduced losses of agricultural products during transportation from the field to markets, improved
access to public services for the broader population (access to health centers, and better mobility of teachers resulting
in reducing the number of days of absence from schools), and reduced number of accidents was not quantified.
There were administrative shortcomings leading to cost overruns in the case of both irrigation and road works and this
resulted in reduction of outcome targets. The actual cost of irrigation works was 262% of the appraisal estimate, and
the unit cost of road construction was 131% higher than expected at appraisal (US$180,000 million at closure as
compared to US$137,000 million).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        Yes                                      25%                                     92%

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                      19%                                     95%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project development objective was highly relevant to both the country strategy and the Bank strategy for
Ecuador. Relevance of design is substantial. There is evidence that development objectives were achieved, and
efficacy is rated as Substantial. While it is not possible to gauge precisely the extent of the project’s contribution to this
achievement, it is reasonable to conclude that the project made a contribution. Efficiency was Modest. The NPV for
the road component was negative and the ex post EIRR for the irrigation component was lower than the ex ante
EIRR. Although the actual project cost was lower than the estimated project cost, the unit cost of irrigation and road
activities were higher than the appraisal estimates, and the project did not achieve the originally targeted results.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The risk to development outcome concerns the possible lack of maintenance of the irrigation systems, and of the
roads that have been rehabilitated. The ICR (page 22) notes that 72% of WUAs over the 55 systems were collecting
adequate user fees and 88% of those WUA's had been trained to manage those systems at project closure.
Regarding the road component, the Decentralized Autonomous Government of Province of Chimborazo (DAGPH) is
levying a fee for maintenance on vehicle license plates that provide funds for the Road Conservation Associations
(RCA). There is still a moderate risk to development outcome given the uncertainty associated with the recurrent
budget for the O$M of the road network.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project, which was in the form of a sub national loan to the Province of Chimborazo, represented by the
Chimborazo Provincial Council (CHPC) backed by a sovereign guarantee from the Central Government. The
project design build on the lessons of previous projects in Ecuador (such as, National Sustainable Rural
Development Project, Indigenous and Afro- Ecuadorean People's Development Project: Agricultural Research
Project: Agricultural Census and Information System Project and Poverty Reduction and Local Rural
Development Project) (ICR, page 2). The design also incorporated the use of Routine Road Maintenance Micro
Enterprise (MEMRs) which had been proven to be successful in other countries of the region, due to its potential
to create employment and building capacity to empower local bodies to undertake road maintenance activities
(ICR, page 7). The design was flexible to adapt the unanticipated changes requested by the government (such as
adjusting the location of the targeted road segments due to the government's decision to finance part of the
original plan using counterpart funds (ICR, page 4).

As indicated in Section 5, the cost of irrigation and road works were underestimated. In the case of irrigation
works, most irrigation systems required higher investments than planned. The team clarified that initial cost
estimates for irrigation did not take into account diversity of systems, and the costs of a new five category
classification system proved to be higher than expected. In the case of the road sector international design
standards were used for low volume roads, when other simpler solutions may have been more cost effective.
According to the information provided by the team, the costs of the road works were underestimated due to the
lack of comparators available in Ecuador or in Chimborazo Province for road rehabilitation works.

It is however not clear why the same design standards for low volume roads continued to be used on alternative
road stretches when different selection criteria could have been used for rehabilitating low volume roads to a more
cost effective standard.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

There were 12 supervision missions spread over a period of six years (implying two missions a year). The ICR
(page 23) notes that the Bank's Quito office maintained open communications with the Borrower, and despite
having five Task Team Leaders, supervision was proactive. There was a 19 month delay in approving the
restructuring after its initial diagnosis by the Mid Term review. The information provided by the team indicated that
the delay was due to a combination of factors, including proposed changes on project design and the
Government's change of road plans. The supervision team also aided in compliance with social safeguards
(discussed in section 11). As discussed in section 11, there were initial shortcomings in the Bank's supervision of
procurement issues.

As noted in section 2d, the Bank transferred the GEF which was to be a partially blended operation to Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO), due to the “difficult country relationship of the period and the lack of a current
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The Borrower's ICR (page 77) notes that the final project design focused
mainly on market access through better roads, and not a more complete value chain approach for improving
beneficiaries income (such as through activities aimed at post harvest management and marketing) as envisaged
at appraisal.

The supervision team overestimated the implementing agency's capacity to ensure sound financial management,
which caused delays and affected the quality of financial management.




   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
The project, was in the form of a sub national loan to the Decentralized Autonomous Government of Province of
Chimborazo (DAGPCH), backed by a sovereign guarantee from the central government. The leadership of the
provincial government by the Prefect displayed strong commitment to the project from the outset, by ensuring that
the project was both consistent with the national and provisional strategies and adhered to the cultural norms. The
administrative practices introduced by the Prefect, based on indigenous ancestral approaches using participatory
decision making and social accountability were sound. Testimony to the province's commitment was provided by
(i) the national government's willingness to guarantee the Bank loan and (ii) the provincial government counterpart
funding exceeding the appraisal estimate (ICR, page 24) and (iii) In addition to the 35 km Riobamba Cebadas
road segment, road segments financed by Central Government resources.

     Government Performance Rating                            Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The project was implemented by the Chimbrazo Provincial Council (CHPC) through its Directorate of Public
Works (DOW), which both the Road and the Irrigation Unit (PAD, page 12). In addition to the 35 km Riobamba-
Cebadas road segment that was financed by Central Government resources, the CHPC leveraged additional
funds to complete a Tunshi-San Nicholas road segment of 42 km for a combined total length of 127.4 km (253% of
the appraisal estimate (ICR, page 4). The ICR (page 24) notes that the implementing agency's M&E performance
was "exceptionally good". The unit's operating capacity was affected due to the exodus of key specialists in 2011.
The ICR (page 9) notes that this decision might have been due to a formal external analysis -proposed by the Mid
Term Review- of the performance of contracted specialists (including environmental and M&E specialists and the
financial monitoring officer (ICR, page 9).

     As indicated in section 11, the project's financial and procurement management was weak.

     Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The M&E was to be conducted by the Directorate of Planning Unit of the CHPC, and the unit staff were trained in
using the M&E system (PAD, page 13). At the local level, data collection for the irrigation sub component of the
project was done by the Water User Associations (WUAs). Baseline data for a sample of WUAs and of the two roads
that were to be improved under the project was collected during project preparation by consultants carrying out the
feasibility study (PAD, page 14).

The ICR (page 10) notes that some indicators were qualitative when hard data would have provided greater insight,
and some useful indicators were dropped without a strong rationale.

b. M&E Implementation:

There was an impact assessment plan which included a base line study, a mid term study and final impact
evaluations. The Bank also contracted an ex post research exercise to establish a control group for assessing
outcome.

c. M&E Utilization:

The team clarified that the an important role of the Road Conservation Association (RCA) created by the project was
to monitor the condition of the road network and since their creation, and to date the RCA has been monitoring the
condition of the road network.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a Category B project. The following safeguard policies were triggered by the project:
Environmental Assessment (0.P. 4.01), Natural Habitats (O.P. 4.04), Pest Management (O.P. 4.09), Indigenous
Peoples (O.P 4.10) and Forests (OP. 4.36).

Environmental Safeguards : The PAD (page 22) reports that an environmental analysis and an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for both the irrigation and road works was developed by the Chimborazo Provincial Council
(CHPC), was approved by the Bank at the appraisal stage. The departure of the environmental specialist in 2011
disrupted environmental routines and the M&E of environmental impacts was suspended, All subcontracts contracted
after September lacked environmental permits/licenses. The team clarified that Bank Safeguards specialist working
with local counterparts obtained the needed licenses and permits, and there was compliance with environmental
safeguards at the project closure stage (ICR, page 11).

Natural Habitat: The ICR( page 12) notes that there was no damage or threat to natural habitats during the
implementation phase.

Pest Management: The ICR (page 12) notes that the project promoted ecologically sound farming methods including
natural forms of pest management, and there were no issues associated with pest management.

Forests: There was no damage or destruction of forests (ICR, page 11).

Indigenous Peoples (IP): Since the project targeted area had a large number of indigenous people, a Social
Assessment was conducted as part of project preparation (PAD, page 22). The team clarified that OP 4.10
(Indigenous Peoples safeguards) was triggered because the project was to benefit indigenous communities and not
because it had potential to cause them harm. The project was demand driven, and hence the team could not identify
the number of indigenous people that were likely to benefit from the project.

The team clarified that the following main steps were taken to ensure compliance with IP safeguards. (i)
Dissemination and consultation was done in the language spoken by the IP communities. (ii) Local indigenous
promoters who were responsible for dissemination and organizing consultations were involved in the project all
through the project execution phase.(iii) Statistical data regarding the benefits to IP was regularly collected and
updated during the implementation phase.

The ICR (page 12) notes that due to the sensitivity of water access and history of conflicts, certain groups operated
outside project norms and regulations, and this was a source of tension created tension between communities. To
rectify the situation, the Bank team relied on measures including requiring the documentation of all consultations and
agreements, requiring the DAGPCH to establish a grievance resolution mechanism, activating the project
communications campaign to ensure that the stakeholders understood project objectives and activities. The ICR
notes that the level of conflict between communities was reduced by project closure, and there was compliance with
IP safeguards at project closure.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management : The key financial management issues included, a high level of rotation of accounting and
financial management personnel, incomplete implementation of agreed action plans, untimely transmission of
financial management information and data to auditors, unsystematic financial and budget monitoring, and delayed
payments to suppliers and contractors. The team clarified that the although the audit performance showed
improvement during project implementation, at the closure stage, some audits were qualified, and the final audit was
not yet submitted at project closure.

Procurement: The project activities were delayed due to the slow procurement process and standard procurement
documents were not approved by the Bank until mid 2009. The Borrower's ICR (page 79) reports that the "Bank's
procurement processes/rules were too rigid for local conditions and created significant delays" and that the Bank did
not take adequate actions for blending or adapting to national conditions, and that such actions could have resulted in
time savings of up to 50%.

The team clarified that although the implementing agency were not familiar with new international procures associated
with road rehabilitation works, they were able to process two large contracts in the initial years. On the irrigation
system component of the project, a new set of procurement documents was developed and approved by the Bank in
January 2011, and an updated Procurement Plan was prepared and approved in November 2011. The team also
clarified that all procurement related activities were concluded by 2013, and there were no reported cases of mis
procurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately          The development objective was highly
                                                            Satisfactory        relevant to the Government and the
                                                                                Bank strategy for Ecuador, and
                                                                                relevance of design is rated
                                                                                Substantial. Efficacy of the objective
                                                                                was rated Substantial. Efficiency was
                                                                                Modest. The NPV for the road
                                                                                component was negative and the ex
                                                                                post EIRR for the irrigation component
                                                                                was lower than the ex ante EIRR. There
                                                                                were cost overruns in the irrigation and
                                                                                road works, and the project did not
                                                                                achieve the originally targeted results.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          The project's financial and procurement
                                                            Satisfactory        management was weak.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (page 25-26) draws the following main lessons from the project.

(1) Leadership and ownership can be very important in project implementation. In the case of this project, the
prefect understood the project's strategic context and envisaged the longer term potential for the province by
working successfully with the Bank. The prefect could further aid in the execution of the project despite significant
difficulties in Bank country relations during much of the project period.

(2) The indirect benefits of an investment operation can be important. The project had a strong emphasis on local
institutional capacity building and this aided in focusing on agricultural advancement rather than the constant
struggle for water.

(3) The permanent presence of an M&E specialist in the implementation unit can be helpful not only for the physical
component of the project, but also for instilling the idea of M&E and institutionalizing its practices.
14. Assessment Recommended?               Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and clear in explaining the problems that were encountered at the preparatory and implementation
stage. It is also very clear in its discussions on the problems associated with the financial and procurement
arrangements.

The discussion of the output and outcome indicators could have been clearer. However, the Impact Evaluation Study
provides more clear information. The ICR did not cover safeguard compliance in sufficient detail.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
