Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5471-BT
BCTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 29, 1985
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units   =   Bozswana Pula (BP) and Thebe (t)
US$ 1.00         =   BP 1.78
BP 1.00          =   US$ 0.56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare        =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer      =   0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer =   0.39 sq. miles = 247 acres
1 kilogram       =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton         2204 pounds
1 liter          =   1.05 US quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
ACP     -   African, Caribbean and Pacific (countries)
ALDEP   -   Arable Lands Development Program
APRIU    -   Animal Production Research Unit
BLDC    -   Botswana Livestock Development Corporation
BMC     -   Botswana Meat Commission
DAH     -   Department of Animal Health
DAR    -   Department of Agricultural Research
DFS     -   Department of Field Services
DPU     -   District Planning Units
EEC     -   European Economic Community
FAO/CP  -   Food and Agricultural Organization Cooperative Program (with
World Bank)
FMD     -   Foot and Mouth Disease
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -   Gross National Product
GOB     -   Government of Botswana
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LAC     -   Livestock Advisory Centers
LUPAG   -   Land Use Planning Advisory Group
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
MLGL    -   Ministry of Local Government and Lands
NDB     -   National Development Bank
NDP     -   National Development Plan
PDSF    -   Public Debt Service Fund
PCU     -   Project Coordination Unit
EMTC    -   Ranch Management Training Center
TGLP    -   Tribal Grazing Lands Program (policy)
UNDP    -   United National Development Program
Government Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
IBRD Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK FROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND
A. The Project   ....................................     I
B. The Economy   .......      ............................  1
C.  The Agriculture Sector   ........................     2
D.  Land Tenure   ...................................     8
E.  Previous Bank Assistance .......................    11
II. THE PROJECT
A.  General Description  ...........................    13
B.  Detailed Features   .............................    16
C.  Project Costs   .................................    21
D.  Financing   .....................................    22
E.  Procurement   ...................................    22
F.  Disbursement   ..................................    23
G. Accounts and Audit   ............................    24
H. Environmental Impact  ..........................    24
IlI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Coordination and Management   ....     ...............   24
B.  Implementation Schedule   .....     ...................   25
C. Management and Implementation of Specific  ......     25
Components
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Analysis ..............................  29
B.  Government Cash Flow  ................    ...........  30
C.  Economic Analysis   ...............................  30
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                             33
COST TABLES
T-1(a)   Cost Summary                                     36
T-1(b)   Component Summary                                37
T-1(c)   Planning - MLGL                                  38
T-1(d)           - District Planning Units                39
T-l(e)           - Land Boards                            40
T-1(f)           - Strengthening Land Development Div.   41
T-1(g)           - Strengthening Wildlife Department      42
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Botswana in September.  The mission was composed of Messrs. R. Wallace
Mission Leader), Y. Doka 'Agricultural Economist) EAPSA; H. Gruss
Counsel) LEGEA; T. Attig (Economist), R. Creek (Livestock Specialist), F.
Pullen (Planning and Institutional Specialist) FAO/CP; and J. Carter
(Wildlire/Environmental Specialist).
I This document nas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan=c of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
T-1(h)   Trek Routes   ............L...... ........            43
T-1(i). Extension   *** ........*........*........             44
T-1(j)   Credit   0 ...  ...00.  .....0..                      45
T-1(k)   Coordinator Unit   .........................          46
T-1(l)   Pricing and Taxation Analysis   ............          47
Production Tables
T-2(a)   Ranch Development Costs            ............       48
T-2(b)   Unit Prices   ............       ...   .**..O         49
T-2(c)   Technical Coefficients for a Representative Ranch 50
T-2(d)   Ranch - Recurrent Costs   ..................          51
T-2(e)          - Meat Grades   .....................          52
T-2(f)          - Cash Flow Projection   .............         53
T-2(g)   1985 & Projected 1990 Average Farm-gate Prices
of Carcass Meat by Grade       ..............       54
Financial and Economic Tables
T-3      Export Beef Sales.       ....................         55
T-4      Schedule of Disbursements   ................          56
T-5      Key Indicators   ...........................          57
T-6      NDB - Cash Flow    .........................          58
T-7      Economic Farm Gate Price for Beef   ........          69
T-8      Incremental Benefits from Credit Component            60
T-9      Incremental Benefits from Trek-route Component    61
T-10     Total Incremental Beef Production  .........          62
T-11     Government Cish Flow   .....................          63
Annexes
1.       The Project Area   .........                         64
2.       Consultancy for Wildlife Department   ......         66
3.       Terms of Reference for
A.  Project Coordinator                             68
B.  Beef Pricing Specialist   .............         69
C.  Financial Analyst/Taxation Specialist           70
D.  Coordinator of Land Use Planning                71
E.  Land Use Planning Training Officer              72
4.       Communal Area Development   ................          74
5.       Annual Project Review   ....................          75
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Selected Documents on Agricuilture in Botswana.
B.    Project Working Papers on the Following:
(i) Land Use Planning
(ii) Livestock Production
(iii) Trek Routes
(iv) Wildlife Develop'ment
Map
Map IBRD 18766 country map with identification of project area and
previous projects developments.



- BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project
1.01      In February 1983, a mission from the World Bankl/ visited
Botswana to assess the state of the livestock sub-sector and identify
project interventions suitable for World Bank financing. As a result of
the mission, it was agreed with Government of Botswana (GOB) that
accelerated development of its laud tenure reform program consistent with
the original policy guidelines (para 1.29-1.34), and increasing abattoir
cepacity were fundamental to expanding production from the cattle
industry. Using the report's recommendations on a balanced development
strategy for the livestock sub-sector, GOB put forward a project proposal
for consideration by the World Bank and this was reviewed by a joint
IBRD/FAO(CP) preject preparation mission in June 1984. The Project was
appraised in September 1984.
B. The Economy
1.02      Botswana has a very limited resource base; its main resources are
grazing lands and diamond reserves which have so far been the mainstay of
the country's economic development.  Arable land is abundant relative to
the size of the population but insufficient rainfall is a major constraint
to its utilization. Copper and nickel mines have made significant
contributions to employment and incomes but their reserves are likely to be
depleted within two decades. The country is endowed with large coal
reserves, but an economic way of exploiting them for export markets is yet
to be found.
1.03      At the time of independence in 1966, agriculture, especially
cattle raising, was by and large the main source of income and employment.
However, with the mining of diamonds and copper/nickel, which started in
the early 1970's, Botswana's economy has experienced rapid growth and major
structural changes. Real GDP increased 10 percent a year during the decade
ending in 1982 and as a result, per capita GNP rose from US$110 in 1972 to
over US$900 by 1982. The economy is dualistic, with a small modern sector
generating substantial resources through exports of beef, copper/nickel
and, most importantly, diamonds and a large rural sector involved in
traditional agriculture and cattle raising. While incomes earned in the
two sectors differ dramatically, the effects on living standards are
somewhat mitigated by intra-family transfers. The period since the early
1970's has also witnessed a rapid build-up of physical and social
infrastructures, particularly in transportation, health and education.
1.04      Botswana's significant achievements of economic development have,
to a large extent, resulted from a sound and effective management of the
economy by a democratic and responsible Government. The Government has
made effective use of expatriate technicians for the preparation and
implementation of its development programs, and has welcomed advice from
donor agencies and other countries.
1/ Livestock Sub-sector Memorandum Report No.4665:BT, dated September
1983.



1.05      The Fifth National Development Plan (NDP V 1979/80-1984/85) aimed
at shifting the emphasis from investment in infrastructure to increasing
employment and income opportunities in the rural sector. But, the progress
toward Plan targets was hindered by adverse exogenous events: two outbreaks
of foot-and-mouth disease in 1978 and 1980 which reduced beef exports, the
depressed state of the world diamond market in 1981/82 and three
country-wide consecutive years of drought since 1981. The Government,
however, has indicated it intends to pursue the current Plan's broad-based
development strategy through the Sixth Plan to 1989/90.
C. The Agriculture Sector
General
1.06      The importance of the agricultural sector to Botswana's economy
is much greater than indicated by its relatively small share (11 percent)
of GNP. This is due to its being the main source of livelihood for about
85 percent of the population and the second largest foreign exchange
earner, accounting for 18 percent of the total. The major agricultural
activities are livestock raising and crop farming. More than 80% of
agricultural added value is contributed by the livestock sub-sector.
1.07      Of the approximately 85,000 total farm families in the country
all but about 360 are engaged in farming the country's tribal land of 37
million ha. Many of these families grow crops for subsistence as well as
holding varying numbers of cattle which are grazed communally. Of the 360
commercial farms on freehold land occupying 3% of total land area, approxi-
mately 200 specialize in cattle production, while the remainder raise both
crops and cattle, but on most of these mixed farms, cattle production is
predominant.
1.08      Development Strategy.  The Government's aim has been to promote
the maximum sustainable production and income growth from the cattle
industry while assisting crop farmers meet their subsistence food
requirements. These policies have been backed by two long-term development
programs: the Tribal Grazing Lands Program (TGLP) (para 1.31), which
proposes major land tenure reforms; and the Arable Lands Development
Program (ALDEP), which focusses on the provision of inputs and services to
small crop farmers. Although both programs have seen some progress, a
combination of technical, economic, climatic and political constraints have
limited their impact. Land use planning procedures and land zoning have
not been consistent with the original TGLP concept (para 1.35); nor has the
existing differential grade pricing system for livestock producers
attracted the majority of farmers to invest in improved range management
practices and quality beef production. Serious country-wide droughts in
the four of the last six years have decimated crop production and caused
severe range degradation. The Government has recognized that firm guidance
will be needed for the programs to meet their objectives and has begun to
make political and administrative changes to this end (para 1.36).
1.09      Agricultural Pricing.  Producer prices are set on the basis of
border parity for crop products and export parity for beef and other
livestock products. As Botswana is a member of the South African Customs
Union (Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and South Africa) and agricultural



-3-
products (excluding those from livestock) are moved freely across borders,
no direct producer or consumer price subsidies are applied to these
commodities. Approximately 85% of the country's beef production is
exported and both producer and cousumer prices reflect the returns from
overseas sales. The export market comprises sales to the EEC (50%), South
Africa (37%) and other African countries (132) (Table T-3). Realisations
from the EEC tend on average to be 25-30% higher than other markets and as
such exert the largest effect on farmgate prices. Producers receive an
initial payment at the time of sale and a further payment when export sales
have been finalized. A portion of export realisations is retained by the
Botswana Meat Commission and used to support prices in less favourable
years. This procedure was applied in 1978 and 1980 when outbreaks of Foot
and Mouth Disease restricted access to Botswana's most profitable markets.
However, the overall pricing strategy for the livestock sub-sector will be
addressed within the project and in the general economic and sector
discussions with the Government, with the object of shaping the use of
pricing and taxing structures for encouraging improved range management,
high quality beef production, and ensuring the appropriate return from
Government contributions to the sub-sector.
1.10      Budget Allocations.  Agriculture's share of Government expendi-
tures has been about 8% over the last five years. However, over the same
period, the total budget expenditure has increased at an annual rate of 22%
in real terms, resulting in spending on agriculture rising from P12.4
million in 1978/79 to P35.2 million in 1983/84. Major developments have
been undertaken in research, training, extension and veterinary infra-
structure. The Sixth National Development Plan proposes to maintain
similar levels of investment for agriculture through to 1990, and efforts
to improve the effectiveness of investments (e.g. in areas such as
research) would need to continue.
1.11      Subsidies, Cost Recovery and Taxation.  Livestock producers
receive direct support through provision of animal health, extension and
research services. A trek route system is currently maintained free of
charge to farmers and marketing infrastructure is provided along the line
of rail for movement of cattle to the main abattoir. National vaccination
campaigns for Foot and Mouth Disease, Anthrax, Blackleg and Brucellosis are
not charged to individuals, but farmers purchase all other veterinary drugs
and requisites either through commercial outlets, or from the veterinary
service (para 1.13). Income tax is paid on livestock operations by a small
number of freehold farmers but lack of cattle ownership data and the
practice of selling cattle through many family members has limited the
Government's ability to directly tax the vast majority of livestock
farmers. A gross sales tax is applied on beef sales of the Botswana Meat
Commission and this tax on BMC yielded P11 million in 1983. Although
Government expenditure on the livestock industry is difficult to accurately
quantify, it would appear that the direct revenue received from taxes and
charges for services is close to covering the Government's recurrent costs
on an annual basis, but does not make a contribution to development
expenditures. This issue would be studied in more depth during the course
of project implementation. Due to arable farming's largely subsistence
nature, no cost recovery or taxation revenue is effected from its
operations. Subsidies are given through grants for ox-drawa implements,
seed/fertilizer packages, fencing and small dam construction for the
watering of draught animals.



- 4 -
1.12      Government Services.  The Ministry of Agriculture provides a wide
range of agricultural services through its four major Departments: Animal
Health, Field Services, Agricultural Research and Cooperative Development.
1.13      The Department of Animal Health's (DAH) activities encompass
animal disease control services, tsetse fly control, livestock advisory
centers, meat inspection at the abattoirs and a hide improvement program.
Despite intermittent outbreaks of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) the
veterinary service has been maintained at a high standard and is
internationally regarded as one of the most efficient in the continent.
The DAM has a network of Livestock Advisory Centres (LACs) designed to
provide veterinary requisites and other goods for sale to farmers. The
range of goods offered include vaccines, anthelmintics, acaricides, feed
supplements, insecticides and fencing materials.
1.14      The Department of Field Services (DFS) is responsible for all
agricultural extension work and is organized into field staff and two major
technical divisions at headquarters: crop production and animal
production. In addition the Department has several other services
(agricultural information, land development) and maintains a ranch
management training center. The main thrust of DFS's livestock extension
program is through regional and district extension staff. Within the DFS
the Division of Animal Production comprises nine units, four of which are
specifically concerned with cattle production. The Artificial Insemination
Service provides high quality beef bull semen for upgrading traditional
cattle. The Bull Subsidy Scheme purchases improved stock and resells them
at a lower price to small farmers.  The Livestock Marketing Unit promotes
live cattle auction sales and is responsible for maintenance of cattle
handling facilities at railway sidings. The Ranch Extension Unit provides
extension advice to TGLP and Freehold Ranchers and acts as a liaison
between farmers and the National Development Bank. Little value is gained
by livestock farmers from the general extension service of the DFS, but the
specialised services of the Animal Production Division do assist farmers
improve their husbandry practices and recomiaendations are updated by
livestock research output.
1.15      The Department of Agricultural Research (DAR) is divided into
rop and animal Units. The Animal Production Research Unit (APRU) operates
sixteen demonstration ranches throughout the country which focus on
carrying capacity, management systems and breed improvement. In addition,
work is being carried out to develop range management practices under
communal grazing pressures and to monitor changes that are taking place in
the country's rangeland resources. Local professional staff are supported
by expatriates from several bilateral agencies, and UNDP/FAO continues to
provide long term project assistance for range ecology investigation.
Research recommendations on stocking rates and ranch investments are
considered valid for commercial ranch development and as such have been
used in Project design.
1.16      A country-wide network of producer cooperative societies function
under the umbrella of the Botswana Cooperative Union, with technical
support and training provided through the Department of Cooperative
Development. Livestock marketing societies sell cattle on behalf of their
members directly to the Botswana Meat Commission and this activity is



coordinated at the abattoirs by the Union through an accountants unit. The
Cooperative movement operates its own banking service (Botswana Cooperative
Bank), and a range of financial services are offered to both consumer and
producer societies.
1.17      Agricultural Credit.  Within the well-established financial
sector, the three commercial banks (Barclay's, Standard and Bank of Credit
& Commerce) and the National Development Bank are the most significant
lenders for agricultural purposes. In addition, the Botswana Cooperative
Bank channels money to the cooperative societies for on-lending to their
members and the Botswana Development Corporation operates several intensive
crop and cattle farming enterprises.
1.18      The commercial banks are widely represented throughout the
country and provide the usual financing services such as overdraft
facilities, three to five year loans for property development and equipment
financing, although the latter is increasingly done via leasing. In terms
of size, the commercial banks dominate the financial sector and they
estimate approximately 20% (P32 million in 1983) of their loans, advances
and leasing business are in agricultural operations. Much of this lending
is against the security of freehold farms and their activities are limited
in the traditional sector by lack of pledgible security. However, the
leasehold ranches being developed under TGLP can now be offered as
collateral and the commercial banks may need to explore this potential
lending avenue if they intend to expand their agricultural portfolio. The
average rate of inflation has been 10% over the last 3 years and commercial
bank interest rates have been in the range of 11-15%.
1.19      The National Development Bank (NDB) was established in 1962 to
promote Botswana's economic development. For fifteen years NDB operated
out of its office in Gaborone and one branch, and maintained a small loan
portfolio of which 80% was invested in agriculture. NDB has recently been
assigned a wider rural development role with expansion of lending for
agriculture and small-scale commerce and industry. This thrust was
assisted by the Bank-financed Second Livestock Project, which provided
funds for the establishment of five regional offices and 16 district
offices. In the three years up to 1982, NDB's loan portfolio grew from
about US$2.0 million to about US$21 million, of which 60% was in
agriculture. The expansion caused severe strains on the Bank's accounting
system which is now being strengthened through the on-going Bank-financed
Second DFC Project. The proposed reorganization and strengthening of
management and accounting will, in particular, equip NDB for a more
aggressive development-banking role, including credit activities among
small traditional farmers. NDB's total loan approvals for the five years
1984-88 are expected to amount to US$89.0 million, about 56% of which would
be agricultural loans, amounting to US$49.0 million. As of September
31,1984, NDB had assets of US$29.2 million, including net fixed assets of
US$6.2 million. Its capital, totalling US$6.0 million, was restructured
under the DFC II Project to the satisfaction of the Bank. NDB also
has embarked on a program to improve debt recovery, as loan arrears of more
than three months totalled US$1.5 million in 1982; and carry out a study to
reduce the relatively high cost of administering small agricultural
loans. However, three years of continuous drought extending into the
1983/84 cropping season has thwarted these efforts, and the Government has



agreed to make good any irretrievable loan losses arising from NDB's
lending to small farmers over the 1981/84 drought period. NDB offers a
range of loan opportunities from seasonal finance for crop production
through medium term lending for livestock, farm machinery and borehole
drilling to long term loans for farm purchase and development. It has
continually adjusted its interest rates to reflect both the cost of its
borrowings and loan administration. Currently, agricultural loans carry
interest rates of 16% and 17% for amounts below and above P50,000
respectively.
Arable Farming
1.20      Crop production suffers from an extreme scarcity of water.  The
low and erratic rainfall over most of the country has made arable
agriculture a high risk enterprise. The majority of farmers have opted for
a low cost cropping system that aims (in the best years) at subsistence
food production. There are two main sources of surface water in the
country: the Limpopo River in the east and the Okavango Delta in the
northwest. The Limpopo, which also runs through South Africa and irrigates
farmers fields there, is utilised by about 50 irrigated farms in Botswana
and is close to serving its maximum area. The Okavango Delta on the other
hand is a relatively inaccessible natural swamp, with large quantities of
seasonal water. It is malaria and tsetse infested and almost uninhabited.
Also, the soils in the vicinity are not particularly good for crops. To
move water from this low area to where the population is located in the
east, would require pumping it up and over 500 kms, straight through the
Kalahari Desert. Assuming it were technically feasible, the cost is likely
to be extremely high in relation to the alternative of importing the
quantity of food grain that such water might produce. Groundwater is
tapped extensively for cattle but because of its depth and fossil origin,
the larger quantities required for crop irrigation have been considered too
costly to distributc and likely to endanger depletion of the existing
aquifers. However, the Government has recently attached priority to a
detailed irrigation assessment of the country and a World Bank supported
study, beginning In June 1985, will carry out the technical and economic
analysis of both surface and ground water potential for irrigation.
The Cattle Sub-Sector
1.21      The total herd size stands at about 2.6 million head, with about
500,000 cattle on the freehold ranches, and the resaining 2.1 million
cattle held on the tribal lands. Of the freehold herd, about 50% Is
concentrated in the Western Region, another 25X in the Francistown Region,
and the balance is distributed among the other regions, except for
Ngamiland where there are no freehold ranches. The regional distribution
of the communally grazed herd has been changing. Until the mid-1960's, the
main cattle concentrations were found close to areas which either had
access to permanent water or could be serviced with hand dug wells and
shallow boreholes. However, with the spread of deep boreholes, previous
ungrazed areas were opened up for livestock and significant increases in
cattle populations occurred in regions west of the line of rail. The
largest concentration of the communally grazed herd is presently found in
the Central Region (36%) followed by the Francistown Region (14%), the
Gaborone Region 13Z), the Southern Region (13Z), the Maun Region (12%),



- 7 -
and the Western Region (12%). There are about 58,000 livestock holders
(67% of total farm families) and 40,000 or 70% of these are considered
commercially orientated by having 40 or more animals.
1.22      Based on who sells cattle to the abattoir, the offtake among the
two production systems is estimated at 17Z for the freehold ranches, and
about 6% for the traditional farmers. However, these figures are
misleading since traditional farmers do sell some of their cattle to
freehold ranchers, who in turn, either fatten them or sell them directly to
the abattoir. Nevertheless, if adjustments are made for such direct
transfers, the difference in 'Nfftake between the two production systems
remains substantial. The Animal Production Research Unit (APRU) has shown
on its own ranches over the last 15 years that commercial offtake rates of
17-20% are obtainable from average levels of improved range management.
1.23      Total offtake from the national herd over the last 8 years has
remained relatively constant at about 300,000 head/annum, except in 1978
and 1980 when Foot and Mouth Disease outbreaks restricted export slaughter
sales. Although during the same period live cattle numbers Increased by
about 3%/annum, the fully utilized abattoir capacity effectively reduced
ttie national slaughter offtake percentage. The Government is now
addressing this constraint and plans to build an additional abattoir (para
1.26). 85% of slaughter sales are sold for export (para 1.25-1.29) and
their gross foreign exchange receipts in 1983 totalled BP 119m (US$il3)
with BP 63m (US$60m) being paid to producers. Assuming adequate abattoir
capacity was available, the Joint Bank/GOB Livestock Sub-sector Study in
1983 projected that with little or no increase in the present national
herd, adoption of improved cattle management practices could lead to total
offtake of 420,000 head/annum with an export value of BP 180 million.
1.24      Cattle Marketing.  Three mechanisms exist in Botswana for moving
cattle from the production units to abattoirs; these are: trekking, road
and rail. Farmers may use one or a combination of transport options to
move cattle and selection is usually determined by geographical location.
If a farmer wishes to sell cattle he has a basic choice between selling to
Botswana Meat Commission (BMC) or selling for immediate cash payment. If
he wishes to sell to BMC then he will choose becween selling through an
agent, the local marketing cooperative or directly to the abattoir. The
opportunity for immediate cash sale is realised through individuals, buyers
or butchers, a regular weekly village market day or monthly auction sale,
and in some regions, the Botswana Livestock Development Corporation (BLDC)
(para 1.40).
Beef Processing and Marketing
1.25      The Botswana Meat Commission (BMC), a parastatal body, is
entirely responsible for the export marketing of Botswana beef through its
two abattoirs at Lobatse and Maun and export slaughterings account for 85%
of total cattle offtake. The small proportion of beef marketed for
domestic production (estimated at 50,000 head) is mainly handled by private
butchers. It is considered that the BMC efficiently operates its abattoirs
and maintains a highly effective export marketing service.



-8-
1.26      Over the last ten years BMC's main abattoir at Lobatse has fully
utilized its capacity except In 1978 and 1980 when outbreaks of Foot and
Mouth Disease restricted slaughterings from large areas of the country. In
fact, the Lobatse abattoir's rated capacity of 190,000 head per annLa has
been exceeded in 5 of the last 6 years and farmers have consistently
petitioned the Government to expand slaughter capacity. Some relief was
gained by the commissioning in 1983, of 20,000 head/annum abattoir at Maun
but it has long been apparent that another major abattoir was needed to
cope both with immediate farmer demand and the future development potential
of the industry. The Government has approved, In principle, building a new
abattoir in Francistown and work on construction could begin in 1986.
Provisionally planned for an initial annual slaughter capacity of
90-100,000 head/annum, the new abattoir would satisfy the offtake potential
from the livestock industry for e further decade. Several donors including
the African Development Bank and the European Development Fund have
intimated interest in providing concessionary financing for the abattoir.
1.27      The principal export markets have traditionally been to South
Africa and the EEC (Table T-3). The close proximity of RSA, with which
there is a common customs area agreement makes it a natural export market.
Moreover it is a market, unlike Europe, which does not impose severe
restrictions following outbreaks of Foot and Mouth Disease. Botswana's
access to the EEC market is through a beef quota established under the Lome
agreement and involving five African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP)
countries. In the recently concluded negotiations on the third phase of
this agreement, Botswana has retained both its share of the quota (18,916
tonnes) and the option to take over any other country's unfulfilled share
on a annual basis.
1.28      Projections of future beef production made in 1983 (GOB/Bank
Sub-sector Memorandum) estimated export beef sales would reach a maximum
level of 42,000 tons by 1998 and thereafter stabilize at that figure,
assuming domestic per capita beef consumption remained constant. These
assumptions would require Botswana to find markets for an additional 12,000
tons of beef over the next fifteen years. Prospects for achieving this
target appear reasonable, provided planned steps to safeguard the country's
rangeland, improve the quality of beef production, and expand abattoir
capacity are taken.   The total ACP exports to the EEC account for under 1X
of EEC consumption, and given Botswana's well established marketing
infrastructure within Europe, it is likely that its export sales to the EEC
can be maintained and probably expanded in future years. Similarly, sales
to South Africa do not undermine domestic production and the reduction of
that country's beef herd has created an expanding market for Botswana.
Other regional markets such as Angola, Mozambique, Mauritius, etc., have
been developed, but have proved unreliable due to shortage of foreign
exchange and the occasional beef dumping practices of other countries.
D. Land Tenure
1.29      In the  past, there were three distinct categories for land
tenure in Botswana: state land, tribal land and freehold land. State lands
were principally national parks or reserved areas controlled by the
Government. Tribal lands covered most inhabited areas where tradition
allowed the chiefs to allocate to individuals the right to cultivate crops



- 9 -
and graze livestock without permitting fixed tenure of the land. Freehold
land comprised six blocks, covering 33,000 Km2 or 3% of the total land
area, where modern law titles were granted. Over the last fifteen years
some change has taken place in the state freehold land areas. Significant
areas of state land have been gradually incorporated into tribal areas ana
the majority of freehold titles changed from non-citizen to citizen
ownership. However, radical changes have occurred in the control and
tenure patterns of tribal land, which covers 65Z of Botswana.
1.30      These changes were initiated in 1968 through the Tribal Land Act
which established Land Boards throughout the country and gave them
authority to control all land use in tribal lands formerly vested in the
Chiefs. Presently there are 12 Land Boardz.' for Botswana; in general, land
boards include two members appointed by the Minister of Local Government
and Lands, two district councillors, the chief or tribal authority and a
nominee of the chief. Land Boards began to function in 1970 but within
three years it was found necessary to lessen their administrative burden by
establishing subordinate land boards. At present 35 subordinate land
boards exist.
1.31      Despite this reorganization in the control of tribal lands,
compelling evidence of serious and damaging overgrazing which would, in the
long term, affect the overall viability of the cattle industry and reduce
rural incomes, led the Government in 1975 to institute a new tenure program
for tribal grazing lands (TGLP)2/. Under this program leasehold ranches
were to be established within the tribal lands, while ensuring that fully
adequate land would be reserved 'around the villages' for communal grazing
so that -every tribesman has as much land as he needs to sustain himself
and his family". On the ranches, which would be fenced, exclusive rights
to the use of the land by individuals or groups of individuals forming
syndicates would be recognized (including previously traditional small and
medium scale users of communal lands). Preference would be given to groups
in the allocation of ranches and in the provision of extension services.
Areas where land could be divided into ranches and leased to individuals
were to be known as -commercial' zones. The areas around the villages were
to be designated as -communal- zones and unallocated land was to be known
as reserve where no immediate development was perwmtted, except wildlife
management schemes.
1.32      The responsibility for formulating comprehensive land use plans
and the associated land zonings under TGLP was vested in the Land Boards.
District Land Use Planning Advisory Groups (LUPAGs) were created to assist
Land Boards with this task. LUPAG membership comprised the senior regional
or district officer from the Ministries of Local Government & Lands,
Agriculture, Commerce and Industry, and Home Affairs together with a broad
range of technicians from these Ministries. In addition, District Council
and Land Board personnel were included in the LUPAG. At national level, a
Land Development Committee was established in MLGL to review land zoning
decisions and the derived land use plans. The Committee was to consult
with other relevant ministries on the likely impact of district proposals,
recommend any changes and finally give approval for implementation.
2/ Tribal Grazing Lands Policy Paper - Government Publication, 1975.



- 10 -
1.33      Following the land zoning exercise, Land Boards were to request
the Land Development Division of MOA to carry out demarcation of commercial
ranches and communal areas. Such areas were then to be advertised through
local circulars, newspapers and radio, with a date set for an allocation
hearing. Prospective leaseholders or land users were to be asked to
submit applications or objections and all issues were to be extensively
discussed at the allocation meeting. Compensation was not viewed as a
major constraint to the implementation of TGLP as the focus of the program
was aimed at linking existing land users with their specific grazing
areas. However, if it became apparent that a land user would be displaced
through an allocation, the Land Board would compensate such a user with an
alternative land allocation. The demarcation-adjudication-allocation
process was democratically designed to ensure all parties involved in TGLP
had equal opportunities to express their opinions, and in practice this has
proved to be the case.
1.34      Policy makers viewed TGLP as a major land reform program which
would "change the Botswana way of life' and "affect directly or
indirectly-virtually every Batswana. Such changes were seen as desirable
by the Government. In addition, TGLF was expected to reduce the gap
between rich and poor which was seen as growing larger under the p'resent
system in which more and more grazing land would be monopolized by the few
large cattle owners who could afford to drill boreholes and establish new
cattle holdings. TGLP was seen as a way for the Government to administer a
more equitable distribution of the country's land resource by providing the
less wealthy, but aspiring farmers, with the opportunity to become
commercial livestock producers.
1.35     Although adequate land legislation, planning mechanisms and land
allocation procedures appeared to be in place at the inception of TGLP, its
achievements to date have not produced a program of providing something for
all users of tribal lands; namely, fenced-in ranches for commercial
producers of all sizes, and access to communal land for subsistence
producers. In practice Land Boards did not have sufficient technical
expertise to produce land use plans and the LUPAG's were not only weak in
professional planning capability but also administratively cumbersome. In
the early enthusiasm to activate TGLP no comprehensive land use plans were
developed and little attention was paid to livestock holding data with the
result that subsequent land zonings did not accurately reflect actual
farmer usage. With the fundamental planning base of TGLP lacking, the
subsequent efforts to initiate balanced development interventions along the
national approach of the program proved difficult, Interventions tended to
be marginal. Ironically, the justified preoccupation of both local staff
and expatriate specialists to safeguard the rights of the subsistence
producer resulted in most of the land being left for communal use with the
result that communal areas continued to be farmed by both commercial
livestock holders and subsistence producers. Only limited areas of grazing
were demarcated into commercial ranches, and in some cases public
uncertainty over the intentions of the program and its effects, delayed the
demarcation process. Despite the unsatisfactory progress towards TGLP
implementation, demand from farmers for demarcated ranches has exceeded
supply, (partly because some large land owners wanted to establish their
rights to using a larger grazing area but were not necessarily interested
I-n ranch develcpment) with the result that communal areas continued to be



- 11 -
farmed by both commercial livestock holders and subsistence producers often
with increased pressure from the commercial farmers. However, until the
recent few years, above average rainfall and reasonable grazing conditions
did not create sufficient pressure from the majority of farmers to find
effective weans to preserve grazing resources or access to them, by
narrowing the number of users allowed on any respective area.
1.36      Since 1980, however, there has been a growing awareness of the
limits of the grazing resource, as the increased national herd and
continuous droughts have highlighted the need to control livestock numbers
and undertake improved range management practices. The farmer electorate,
made up of all sizes of cattle holders, has begun to exert pressure on
their representatives for more action on land matters and this has recently
resulted in the political and administrative strengthening of the Ministry
of Local Government and Lands.
E. Previous Bank Assistance
1.37      The Bank Group has made a credit and a loan for two livestock
development projects. The total costs of these projects was P 16.4 million
CUS$21.9 million) with a Bank Group contribution of US$8.2 million. A
Project Completion Report (PCR) and a Performance Audit Report (PPAR) have
been written on the first livestock project (LPI) and a PCR is presently
being written by the Government on the second livestock project (LP2) which
closed in June 30, 1984.
Livestock Development Project I (Cr. 325-BT)
1.38      The first National Livestock Development Project began in March
1973 with support from an IDA credit of US$1.60 million out of a total
project cost of US$7.8 million. It was implemented in the Western and
Korthern State Lands and project activities included: establishment of
leasehold beef ranches and sheep farms, establishment of a parastatal to
assist marketing from remote areas and improvement of marketing facilities.
1.39      The Project was completed three years later than expected and
cost overruns raised the estimated project cost of US$4.9 to an actual
total of US$7.8 million. The project completion report and the performance
audit3J stated it did not succeed in demonstrating the viability of either
beef or sheep farms in the Kalahari Desert but did become the catalyst for
developing the overall land policy in Botswana. The physical implementa-
tion of the project was poor, due in part to the remoteness of the project
sites and the inability of private contractors to effectively operate in
these locations. These problems forced the Government to complete much of
the infrastructure at a cost that greatly exceeded project estimates.
1.40      The project adopted a 'turn-key  approach to establishment of the
beef and sheep farms and although this allowed for design model specifica-
tions to be implemented, the final leaseholders treated the farms as
'Government units- where they had no vested interest. However, the
parastatal formed under the project (Botswana Livestock Development
Corporation) did establish holding grounds and a large fattening ranch that
improved marketing opportunities for small farmers in remote areas. Prices
3/ Project Performance Audit Report (CR. 325-BT) dated June 22, 1982,
No. 3989.



- 12 -
offered to these farmers by other purchasers (traders and agents) rose
considerably as BLDC maintained a floor price. Although the project
produced a negative economic rate of return, the Government considered
several positive lessons were learnt which have assisted in the long term
development of the livestock sub-sector and the overall land tenure reform
program.
Livestock Project II (Lu. 1497-BT)
1.41      In 1977 the Government requested further Bank assistance for
livestock development. The project was formulated to assist ranch
development, seek new technologies to benefit small livestock owners,
improve marketing of livestock and provide livestock related institutional
strengthening. Specifically the project included credit support for
development by farmers of about 100 ranches on land designated as
commercial" under TGLP, development of 14 grazing units in areas
designated as communal land, extension of credit for small communal
schemes, support for a new agricultural credit division of the National
Development Bank (NDB), development of livestock marketing infrastructure
including trek routes, railway handling facilities and establishment of a
ranch management training center. In addition, funds were provided for a
range of technical services including studies and experimental work,
monitoring and evaluation of Project progress and preparation of future
projects.
1.42      The Project closed in June 1984 after receiving a one year
extension to allow for completion of the ranch development component.
Implementation of ranches started in 1980 and, consistent with the
appraisal's projections, no significant incremental production increases
have accrued in the initial years of development.  However, after three
years of consecutive drought the situation on the surrounding communal
areas has deteriorated rapidly and the ranches have demonstrated improved
range conservation and markedly lower mortality rates. Of the other
components, the credit, marketing, training and project monitoring and
evaluation were successfully completed but little progress was achieved in
implementing the planned interventions for communal areas. Out of the 14
proposed communal grazing units, only two were satisfactorily completed and
one of them was a control unit operated solely by the Animal Production
Research Unit (APRU). No requests were made for credit from the communal
areas. The Government is presently preparing a Project Completion Report
but from the comprehensive monitoring and evaluation reports it would
appear that the ranch production component has a reasonable chance of
reaching its long term objectives and this should lead to the Project
achieving a satisfactory overall economic rate of return. This is not to
say substantial problems were not encountered in several facets of the
project.
1.43      A primary constraint experienced during initial project
implementation was the lack of urgency that most livestock producers
attached to obtaining control of a specific grazing area. Through the
early years of the project period above average rainfall provided
sufficient grazing throughout the tribal lands, and with the exception
of more forward thinking farmers, there was limited demand for range



- 13 -
improvement packages. Further, some of the commercial ranches which were
uemarcated and made available were actually marginal lands, rather than
areas where boreholes were already operated by commercial producers. As a
result, incremental development costs in such cases proved high, with
drilling and dry-hole costs adding to the burden. The initial intention
had been to rationalize, and better discipline use of the existing range-
land. The slow pace of land demarcation and the inconsistency between the
original policy statement on TGLP and the actual zoning of the tribal lands
into commercial, communal and reserve areas also contributed to the
Project's difficulties. Coupled with farmer attitudes, difficuities in
establishing any developments in the communal areas reflected the fact that
all sizes of livestock holders still grazed communal land, and as their
objectives for holding cattle differed widely, little agreement was
possible on a collective basis for management improvements. However, in
the last two years of the Project a combination of severe country-wide
droughts and an expanded national cattle herd began to focus farmers'
attention on controlled management of the grazing resource. Demand for
ranches accelerated and criticism of the Government's tardiness in
providing land tenure changes was widely voiced. It became evident that
initial land zoning of the tribal lands did not truly reflect its actual
use and a more thorough national land use planning exercise would be
essential if the disciplined management of grazing resources were to
eventuate. In addition, it was judged a more realistic time-frame would be
needed for the full implementation of TGLP, possibly stretching over the
next two decades.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description-
Project Rationale and Objectives
2.01      As a major source of foreign exchange, the growth of the cattle
industry is crucial to Botswana's overall development. It also directly
effects the welfare of a large proportion of the population. Although over
the last 10 years, commercial sales from the cattle industry have expanded
to fully utilize the country's abattoir capacity, there is growing evidence
of serious overgrazing and range degradation, which will threaten the long
term viability of the industry. It is apparent that conservation of the
grazing resource can only be achieved if overgrazing on the tribal lands,
which presently account for 65% of total land area, can be reversed. To
achieve this, market-oriented producers (whether individuals or groups)
will have to be linked with demarcated grazing areas, and  free- access to
remaining, truly communal areas will have to be limited to and controlled
by the remaining subsistence or very small scale producers.
2.02      The Government's Tribal Grazing Lands Program (paras 1.30-1.36),
a wide ranging land tenure reform program unique in Africa, was designed
for this primary purpose. If implemented along the guidelines cf the
original policy document (para 1.31), TGLP could achieve sustainable output
of fodder from the grazing resource, which in turn would lead to an
expanded level of livestock production. However, it is evident that TGLP
needs to establish a sound planning base before the majority of the



- 14 -
country's farmers can be brought into the program. It will also require
the strong capability to sort through and settle, in a timely and equitable
manner, what in some cases will be difficult adjudication issues.
2.03      Simultaneously, while land tenure changes are taking place, the
Government recognises that it will also have to tackle two other important
facets of livestock development: the need to assure adequate processing
capacity to handle the increased offtake which would come from better range
management, and the need to refine the package of fiscal and pricing
incentives and disincentives not only to discourage the overgrazing of the
range but also stimulate production of the quality of meat its export
markets demand. It will be necessary to increase abattoir capacity. The
Government is proposing to build a new abattoir (para 1.26) and has
submitted to the Bank a timetable for the design, construction and
commissioning of the plant. Trek route development will also need to be
furthered. With increased marketing capacity overall, there should be less
holding of cattle beyond their optimal selling rate, less reduction of
weight and quality enroute to the abattoirs and less pressure on grazing
lands. However, in the long term, control of the national herd size will
require careful balancing of marketing capacity with appropriate fiscal,
pricing and land use policies. As to fiscal and pricing incentives, the
Government will be embarking on a review of a variety of means (the pricing
structure for different grades of meat, tax incentives related to improved
range management, cost recovery for services, and so forth) which, at the
same time, reinforce producer incentives to adopt improved production and
conservation methods; assure reasonable recovery by Government of resources
put into the sub-sector, particularly when commercial benefits to producers
are clear; avoid benefitting continvation of unimproved livestock
production, or allowing this production to enjoy any artificial advantage
over the other land uses (cropping, wildlife, etc.).
2.04      To help address the various above needs (except for the
abattoir), the Project would strengthen the Government's institutional
capability to promote, through both program and policy interventions, more
effective utilization of the rangeland resource and further development of
improved livestock production systems. Direct output from the Project
would be: the production of four land-use plans for the Central, Ngamiland,
Kweneng and Southern Districts wnich have 70X of the total cattle
population and 86% of Botswana's livestock holders; assistance and training
in the specification and applicatior. of improved methods and procedures for
implementing the land use plans; refinement of the pricing and taxation
policy package, an implementation plan for the package and training of
Botswana personnel who would initially be part of the working parties
studying these issues; development of guidelines and plans for management
of communal grazing areas and funding to assist such initiatives; provision
of credit and managerial assistance for developing both individual and
group commercial ranches; and construction of trek routes.
2.05      About 1,000 farmers will be directly involved in the proposed
production components but the Project's planning activities have been
designed to create the basis for the eventual involvement of all 58,000
livestock farmers in the Tribal Grazing Lands Program. The project's
concentration on securing an improved national capacity to manage and
explo:it rationally and equitably its centrally important rangeland resource



- 15 -
is the basis for the broad indirect benefits. While technical assistance,
training and administrative development represent a large share of project
activities and costs, these are in aggregate both appropriate to the nature
of the needs and relatively modest in comparison to the economic importance
of the sub-sector and its future sustainability and growth potential. They
also reflect the considerable difficulties which can be expected, and the
patience which will be needed in securing for the subsistence producer
better control over, and development of, the communal resources they depend
upon.
2.06      Specifically, the Pr.,ject would include the following components:
1. Land Use Planning and Management
(a) Coordination of Land-Use Planning and Training
The Project would provide a technical specialist to help the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands centrally coordinate
all land-use planning activities and ensure that the
detailed land use plans are consistent with national
resource management policies. In addition, it would fund
the operation of related training programs and a land use
planning training specialist to help develop the required
training courses for all land use planning cadres.
(b) District Planning Units
The Project would support the establishment of four district
planning units, which would be responsible for producing
detailed land use plans. Funds would be provided for
incremental staff salaries, housing, equipment and vehicles.
Cc) Land Boards
To assist the physical implementation of land use plans, the
Project would strengthen four land boards through provision
of support staff, housing and vehicles.
(d) Land Development Division
To increase the professional capability and facilitate
replacement of existing expatriate staff in this technical
support unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, both under-
graduate and postgraduate training would be provided under
the Project. In addition, a consultancy would be funded to
establish the relevant methodology for rangeland analysis
for the emerging Range Ecology Unit.
Ce)  Wildlife Department                                                 0
The Project would assist Government assess the future
structural, manpower and budget requirements of the
Dep;:tment of Wildlife and National Parks.



- 16 -
2.  Trek Routes
To increase the effectiveness of the main northern and
southern trek routes, the Project would upgrade existing
infrastructure and provide .a holding ground and new fenced
boreholes. In addition, improved supervislon and
maintainance of all trek routes would be supported through
provision of incremental staff and vehicles.
3.  Extension
The Project would provide livestock extension specialists to
specifically assist groups of small farmers. Salaries would
be provided for two livestock specialists, a rural
sociologist together with equipment, vehicles and a fund to
develop range improvement infrastructure for groups of small
farmers.
4.  Credit
NDB would receive Project funds on-lent to them by the
Government to provide credit to medium and larger farmers
for ranch development. The Project would also fund salaries
of a modest number of Incremental specialized staff and
transport required to supervise these new credit operations.
5.  Project Coordination
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU), responsible for overall
implementation and execution of the Project would be
established as part of the MOA. The Project would provide
for a Project Coordinator, local professional, support staff
and transport.
6.  Livestock Pricing and Financial Incentive/Disincentive
Analysis
Two internationally recruited specialists would be provided
to help the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance develop
recommendations on a livestock pricing and financial
incentive/disincentive strategy aimed to help make that
strategy as consistent as possible with the desired type of
long-term development of the livestock sub-sector; the
specialists would also help the related Ministries establish
an institutional capacity for the on-going review of prices
and taxes.
B. Detailed Features
Planning
2.07      Coordination and Training.  The need for an action-orientated
rural planning process has been identified as a priority in the next five
year national development program (para 2.01). Steps have already been



- 17 -
taken at the political level to support this objective with the appointment
of an Assistant Minister for rural land matters. To assist the
Government's initiative, the Project would provide a Coordinator of Land
Use Planning in the Ministry of Local Government and Lands. The officer
would oversee the activities of the District Planning Units (DPUs) and
ensure all district plans adequately reflected national planning policies.
In addition he would act as secretary to the central Land Development
Committee (para 1.32) and be responsible for related inter-ministerial
liaison. The Project would also provide for a Land Use Planning Training
Officer to undertake in-service training of DPU staff and manage
post-graduate training activities. In-service training would take place at
district level and would be directly linked to on-going planning work.
Postgraduate training would be aimed at providing experienced staff with
the necessary academic background to assume senior positions with the
planning and land use cadres of MLGL and the MOA. The Training Officer
would be seconded to the School of Environmental Science at the University
of Botswana, but would maintain direct and operational linkages with the
relevent ministries. The Project would provide for vehicles, training,
equipment and employment of two internationally recruited officers, each
for a period of four years.
2.08      District Planning Units.  At present district planning is the
combined responsibility of Land Use Planning Advisory Groups (LUPAGs) and
the Land Boards. The LUPAGs have become large, unwieldy committees with no
specific mandate for production of actual plans, and the Land Board input
has been limited to local political matters. No comprehensive district
plans have been produced and this deficiency has led to a piece-meal land
development approach. The Project would address this constraint by
upgrading the LUPAGs to District Planning Units (DPUs) through the
introduction of a core of professional planners and a reduction in the
membership to the key local officials directly involved with district
planning matters. The Land Boards would contribute to the planning process
by membership on the DPUs but primarily function as implementers of land
use plans. The Project would, on a phased basis, set up the reformulated
DPUs in the districts as follows:
Year           Districts
1       Central, Ngamiland (2)
2       Kweneng, Southern  (2)
4
Land use plans would be produced in Central and Ngamiland Districts in Year
3 and those for Kweneng and Southern in Year 4. These land use plans would
comprise complete district zoning maps with a supporting text of the
preferred areas for (i) commercial and communal livestock production, (ii)
arable production, (iii) wildlife management and (iv) industrial and
residential activities. Provision of incremental staff would include ten
(10) district physical and spatial planners, eight (8) technical assistants
and eight (8) support staff. The Project would provide for staff salaries,
housing, equipment and vehicles.
2.09      Land Boards.  The task of land use plan implementation is vested
in the Land Boards and their subordinate units. Implementation, in this



- 18 -
context, will in practice involve physical demarcation of all land areas
into their respective zones, advertising the proposed land uses, inviting
applications for participation in ranches and other developments, and
carrying out the subsequent adjudication processes. The main Land Boards
operate as administrative centers and generally are adequately equipped to
carry out their duties. However, "on the ground work is delegated to the
Subordinate Land Boards and many of these are deficient in technicians,
equipment, housing and office facilities. A two year course for training
land board technical assistants was originated at the Polytechnic
Institute through assistance under the IBRD Urban lI Project and the
present Project would complement this activity by providing training
equipment, particular to rural land activities. Other funded expenditure
would include salaries and housing for incremental technical assistants,
subordinate land board offices and equipment.
2.10      Land Development Division.  Operating within the MOA, the
Division's functions include land use analysis, soil mapping and range
ecology. Its output is available for use in land use planning activities,
extension services and by farmers themselves. Detailed soil maps are
linked with crop type recommendations, and livestock carrying capacities.
Due to the specialised technical nature of the work, a high level of
expatriate expertise has been maintained in the Division. Although
professional staff training has already helped bring local staff into
several senior positions, there remains a need to increase the academic
background of existing staff and train new personnel to satisfy the
increased demand for the Division's work. The Project would provide seven
professional officers with undergraduate (4) and postgraduate (3) training
in the land use and range ecology disciplines. A recent analysis of the
rangeland monitoring techniques has cast serious doubts as to their present
effectiveness both as a planning tool and guide to livestock producers.
The Project would therefore provide funds for a consultancy to establish a
methodology that adequately reflects changes in Botswana's rangeland
environment and terms of reference for the Range Ecology Unit to ensure its
output is operationally useful.
2.11      Wildlife Management and Conservation.  Although 18% of the total
land area of the country has been set aside for National Parks and
Reserves, significant migrations of wildlife take place outside these
areas. The progressive fencing of rangeland for commercial and communal
land development will undoubtedly hinder such wildlife movements and to
assess the likely impact, the Government has commissioned a series of
environmental studies. While the final decision on resource allocation
between agriculture and wildlife will rest with the Government, there is an
accepted need to restructure the Department of Wildlife and National Parks
(DWNP) in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry for more effective
implementation of conservation and wildlife management measures. To
address this need, the Project would support on-going work aimed at
recommending an appropriate organizational structure with manpower and
budget requirements for the future tasks of DWNP (Annex II).
Trek Routes
2.12      A prerequisite to improving cattle trekking conditions is to
secure constant availability of water and grazing on trek routes.



- 19 -
Officially, the watering facilities on trek routes are for the exclusive
use of cattle being trekked and local livestock producers do not have
access to these facilities. To assist enforcement of this rule, the
Project would provide fencing (1 K=2) around existing boreholes on the
major Kalahari and Ngamiland trek routes and an increased level of
supervision and maintenance of water points. In addition, sixteen new
boreholes would be provided at strategic intervals on the Kalahari,
Ngamiland and Mokoba trek routes to reduce daily trekking distances and a
new holding ground at Kwakwala.
Extension
2.13      Several Government ministries are involved with extension advice
to village communities, but no mechanism exists within the MOA to foster
and develop initiatives on land use management amongst owners of small
numbers of livestock. To assist the Government with its resource
management strategy under TGLP, the Project would provide additional
development personnel in the Animal Production Division of the MOA (Annex
IV). They would comprise a rural sociologist and internationally recruited
livestock development specialists and their task would be to assist
individual community efforts centered on disciplined management of communal
grazing areas (and testing such possible tools as grazing permits, fines,
etc.). In this regard the Project staff would work in close liaison with
the District Planning Units and the Land Boards. The Project would provide
for staff salaries, equipment, vehicles and a fund to finance range
improvement infrastructure.
Credit
2.14      Commercial Ranches.  A number of individuals and small groups
will obtain ranches in commercially zoned areas where they already have
ownership of a borehole. For these farmers, the Project would make credit
available to develop water reticulation, erect perimeter and sub-divisional
fences and construct buildings. The credit for these improvements would be
provided in a predetermined package formulated in joint discussions between
the farmer, the Ranch Extension Officer and the National Development Bank
(NDB). For effective supervision of all ranch loans, the Project would
strengthen the existing Agricultural Credit Division of NDB by providing
two ranch finance officers. Where farmers require additional assistance in
establishing and operating a ranch, a supplemental credit package would be
available for employment of a ranch manager from the Ranch Management
Training Center. It would be required that where commercial ranches are
demarcated in areas without boreholes, leaseholders would not be eligible
for a fencing/management credit package until they provided a borehole from
their own financial resources. This measure is designed to alleviate over-
grazing pressures by encouraging farmers to invest a portion of their
cattle holding equity in ranch infrastructure. The Project would provide a
credit fund for financing about 130 fencing/management packages.
On-lending terms to producers would be at 16% interest for amounts under
P50,000 and at 17% interest for amounts over P50,000 with repayment over 17
years including up to 5 years of grace in which interest accrued on the
drawn down principal would be capitalised annually. These terms compare
closely to terms for other agro-industrial lending and, with current
inflation at 10%, the interest rate is positive in real terms. Agreement



- 20 -
was reached at negotiations that any changes in the sub-lending terms would
be made only with prior agreement of the Bank.
2.15      Group Ranch Development.  The complete development of a ranch
starting from unwatered, unfenced rangeland would be used in a scheme of
not less than eight ranches involving groups of farmers. This development
would be the culmination of the land use planning process in one of the
Project districts and would only be initiated at the request of the land
board. Ranches under the scheme would be made available to syndicates of
5-10 members where individual farmers have livestock holdings of up to 100
cattle. Financing of ranch infrastructure would be a loan/grant mix made
up of a loan from NDB and a grant from the MOA to cover the cost of a
borehole. As a condition of each loan, a trained ranch manager would be
employed on a full time basis. To supply technical support for the scheme,
a ranch extension officer would be outposted to the selected area by the
MOA.
2.16      Management Support.  Absentee ranchers have in the past been
sceptical of the benefits from employing qualified ranch management staff,
and reluctant to use cash funds for this purpose. In an attempt to
overcome the problem, the Project would optionally include the cost of
trained ranch managers as part of the loan packages offered by the National
Development Bank. The Ranch Management Training Center (RMTC - established
under the IBRD 1497-BT Project) has produced approximately 150 managers but
the majority of these are employed elsewhere in the economy. It is
considered that this manpower resource can be brought back into the sub-
sector with guaranteed employment opportunities. To support the concept, a
staff of the Animal Production Division of the MOA would take on the
responsibility for placing graduates and giving follow-up advice to ranch
managers in the field. In addition, ranch managers would benefit from
interaction with the NDB's ranch credit officers.
Project Administration
2.17      The structure of organization and management of previous projects
were generally effective but there were weaknesses in coordination of
project activities and the accounting mechanisms. To overcome these
deficiencies a central Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established
as part of the Chief Agricultural Economist's office in the MOA. This
location is considered prefereable as coordination will involve four
departments within the MOA and three other Ministries. The PCU would
comprise a Project Coordinator, Accountant and support staff. The post of
Project Coordinator would be filled by a suitably qualified livestock
development specialist and the Project would provide for salaries,
equipment and vehicles.
Livestock Pricing and Financial Incentive/Disincentive Analysis
2.18      Two medium term technical assistance posts would be established
in the PCU to undertake specific work on beef pricing and financial
incentive/disincentives in the sub-sector (Annex III). These specialists
would, in close collaboration with overall Government efforts to review
taxation policy as it effects the livestock industry, help design adjust-
ments to the meat pricing and taxation package with a view to encourage



- 21 -
improved grazing resource management and increased production of export
quality beef, and help the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance establish
an lnstltutional capacity for the on-going review of beef prices and
taxes.   Assurances were received that the qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment for both speclalists would be acceptable
to IBRD, and their work would be reviewed by the Government and IBRD no
later than December 31, 1987, and thereafter a schedule established for the
phased Implementation of the agreed pricing and taxation recommendations.
C. Project Costs
2.19       Total project costs are estimated at BP 31.7 milllon (US$ 17.8
million) of which about USS 12.1 million represent the fore:gn exchange
costs. The phasing of detailed costs by component and by category of
expenditure are in Tables T-1(a)-T-1(1) and are sumarized below:
(F* OWla           IMP WS                : Toa
_ *____-_------------- ZFsrim kw
Local Foreign  otal  Local Forelig  Ttotl  Eiwchan   Cato
E.._..__ ..m__U   3._.. _UuUUUUUUU ..3 _.m.a
A. LAN USE PLANNING O COIIT
NINISMth OF LOCAL OUIE  ND LANDS                            57.0 1451.6 1*56.6  32.0  815.3  347.6    96     6
DISTIRICT P1INIK WIlT                                     1,327.2  974.5 2,301.7  745.6  547.4 19293.1  42   9
LAS 10B                                                     989.  '47.7 1,937.1  55.9  52.4 1,03.3    49     0
STlENITIIEIS LAW IKIENT DIVISION                             34.0  734.5  763.5  1t.1  412.6  431.7   96     3
STREIINS IF 11ILD LIFE  AHTIHENT STIENGTIENING OF MILDLIFE MPATNIIT  38.7  -   33.7  21.7  -   21.7    -     0
Sub-Total LAID USE PUUIN6 COIPONENT                         2,446.4 4.100.2 6,554.6 1.374.4 2,301.0 3m42.4  63    26
B. TREI Rn OE CUWENBT                                         726.1 1,152.2 1,873.3  407.9  647.3 t155.2  61   7
C. UYESTOM EZMDICI0N CIJIIIE4T                              19W.5 3531.2 5,097.7  330.1 19"3.3 2363.9   6      20
D. UTO. K1ELIPCI DNOS - CREDIT SERVICES                     2.716.4 7865.5 1051.9 16526.1 49418.8 59944.9  74    41
E. POJECT COMRDINTION MIIT                                    229.3  933.6 1,213.4  129.1  5.4  634.5   21     3
F. UIIESTIIDCK MIClII I TAI POLICY STUDIES                       -  330.0  330.0    -  135.4  183.4    100     1
Total DASINE MSTS                                             7.685.2 1 ,'75.7 25.660.' 49317. 10,091.7 14.416.2  70   100
Plwica1 Caeatinimrn                                          130.3  183.7  314.0  73.2  103.2  176.4   51      1
Price Contitiefiacn                                         2,429.1 3.306.1 5WV.2 1364.7 1,36.5 34223.1  53    22
Totl PIJEC COMT                                              10.244.6 21t467.4 319712.1 5.735.4 12,W.4 17U05.8  A3   124
Project Base costs have been estimaCed at June 1985 prices   No taxes or
duties are levied on project goods, and income taxes are negligible.
Physical contingencies have been included at 10% on only civil works,
fencing and firebreaks. Total physical contingencies are 1% of rotal base
costs. Price contingencies have been included on the international
component of vehicles, equipment, other supplies, external trainlng costs
and technical assistance at 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and 8% for
1987-1989; on the local component of vehicles, equipment and civil works at
12% throughout the project period; and on the local component of staff and
training costs at 10% throughout the project period. Price contingencies
total about 26% of Project baseline costs.



- 22 -
D. Financing
2.20      The financing of Project costs, net of taxes and dutiee, would be
as follows:
US$ million                Percent
IBRD                          10.7                       60
GOB                            7.0    )
Farmer Contribution            0.1    )                  40
Total:                      17.8                      100
The proposed IBRD loan to Government of US$10.7 million (BP19.O a) would be
for 19 years including a 4 year grace period. The loan would finance about
60% of Project costs or 88% of the total foreign exchange costs of
US$12.1 m. The Government would provide US$7.0 a or (BP12.5 a) and farmers
would contribute just under US$0.1 million (BPO.2 a) in the form of labor
to develop ranch infrastructure.
2.21      Loan funds (BP10.8 a or US$6.1 a) and the Government equity
contribution (BP2.1 m or US$1.2 m) for the NDB credit component would be
channelled to NDB through a subsidiary loan agreement. The terms of this
agreement would maintain NDB's debt/equity as negotiated between IBRD and
the Government under the recent DFC II Project (Lo 2384-BT). All funds
lent to NDB would be at the rate charged through the Public Debt Service
Fund (PDSF) to parastatals by the Government (10% in 1985). In order to
allocate a proportion of the foreign exchange risk of external project
borrowings to participating parastatals, the Government has in place a
formula, which is satisfactory to IBRD. Through this arrangement NDB would
be responsible for approximately 9% of the foreign exchange risk of its
borrowings under the Project. conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to IBRD is a condition of loan effectiveness.
E. Procurement
2.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following
table:41
Project Element           Procurement Method       Total
ICB    LCB    Other      Cost
-- -USS million
Civil Works
a. Offices, Houses, Trek         2.1                 2.1
Route Development            (1.5)              (1.5)
b. Community Grazing                      1.8        1.8
Units                                 (1.2)     (1.2)
Vehicles and Equipment   0.6    0.4                  1.0
(0.55) (0.35)             (0.9)
Ranch Development                         7.2        7.2
(4.4)     (4.4)
Technical Assistance &                    3.1        3.1
Training                                (3.1)     (3.1)
0.6    2.5    12.1       15.2
(0.55) (1.4)   (8.7)    (10.7)*
* Rounded to 10.7
4/ Unless noted otherwise, all figures in this paragraph include
contingencies.



- 23 -
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
Orders for vehicles, spare parts and equipment (US$0.6 m) would be bulked
as far as possible, and orders of US$200,000 or above would be subject to
international competitive bidding procedures. The bidding documents would
indicate that suppliers will maintain or agree to maintain an adequate
after-sales service and inventory of spare parts. Orders for vehicles,
spare parts and equipment that cannot be bulked in packages of US$ 200,000
would be procured in accordance with existing local procedures (US$0.4 m)
subject to IBRD approval of those contracts undertaken through this form of
procurement. Civil work construction, including housing, offices,
boreholes, fencing and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure (US$ 2.1
million) would be too small and scattered to attract international
interest. Procurement would therefore be by contracts awarded following
locally advertized bidding subject to the same conditions as for vehicles,
spare parts and equipment (although foreign firms would be entitled to
compete). If approved by IBRD, works procurement could be by force account
of the Ministry of Local Government and Lands or of MOA.
F. Disbursements
2.23      The IBRD loan would be disbursed to cover the following:
i)  50% of total expenditures for civil works (including
offices, houses and trek route development), (US$ O.9m).
(ii)  60% of total expenditures for establishment of community
grazing units (US$1.2m).
(iii)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures
for vehicles, spare parts and equipment (US$0.7m).
Civ) 60% of amounts disbursed for ranch development sub-loans
by NDB (US$3.lm).
(v) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditure for
technical assistance and training to MLGL and MOA (US$2.7m).
(vi) An unallocated amount of US$2.1m, representing a portion
of the contingencies on the above categories and
transferable to them as required.
A schedule showing the estimated disbursements under the project is to be
found in Table T-4 and this reflects the standard country disbursement
profile.
2.24      Accounting procedures within the MLGL, MOA and NDB are adequate
to support SOE applications, which could be used for categories (i) where
force account is used, (iii) for local training, (iv) ranch development
credit, and for reimbursement under contracts of less than US$10,000 for
both goods and services. Documentation to support the expenditures
financed on the basis of SOE will not be submitted to IBRD with the
borrower withdrawal applications but will be retained by MLGL, MOA and NDB
and made available for review by IBRD representatives in the course of



- 24 -
Project Supervision. In addition, such documentation will be subject to
annual alvdit by auditors acceptable to IBRD. Disbursement for other items
would be subject to full contract documentation.
G. Accounts and Audit
2.25      The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Local Government and
Lands and NDB would maintain separate re_ords and accounts adequate to
document all Project activities. NDB's accounts are satisfactory, and have
been satisfactorily audited by suitable auditors in the p.tst. Both MOA and
MLGL accounts are satisfactory but their audits by the Government's auditor
generally have been slow under previous projects. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that (i) separate accounts for the Project would be
maintained by MOA, MLGL and NDB, all consistent with accepted accounting
practices; (ii) independent accountants, selected by the Government and
acceptable to IBRD, would audit Project accounts annually, including items
claimed under statements of expenditure (SOE) and (iii) the Government
would make available audited accounts and reports on them within six months
after the close of the fiscal year.
H. Environmental Impact
2.26      Poorly managed, over-stocked rangeland already exists in sone
areas of Botswana. The Project would form part of the l:ng-term,
wide-ranging Government program, aimed at protecting Botswana's natural
resources through specifically establishing a professional spatial/land use
planning capacity in the rural areas and promoting improved range
management techniques.  Although the Project's interventions relating to
livestock development are small when compared to the total grazing area,
large scaie fencing of rangeland for commercial and communal grazing land
development will undoubtedly further hinder traditional wildlife migrations
which take place outside the present National parks and reserves.  The
Government is proposing to formulate a National Conservation Strategy which
will, amongst other things, review present land allocation between human
development and wildlife- conservation. Although it is unlikely that more
land than the existing 100,000 Km2 (18% of total land area) will be
allocated for wildlife, the Project would provide advice to assist the
Government minimize the impact of the livestock and other developments on
wildlife, and expand the contribution that wildlife activities make to
employment and the economy.
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Coordination and Management
3.01      A Project Steering Committee, comprising the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman), the Permanent Secretary, the Ministry
of Local Government and Lands, the Director of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of Finaice and Development Planning and the General Manager of the National
Development Bank would be established to assume overall respons4bility for
policy direction. Each member would act on behalf of the entity Ae or she
oversees. The Committee would meet as often as required, but at least
twice a year. Overall coordination of project implementation would be



- 25 -
vested in a Project Coordination Unit operating from the Permanent
Secretary's office of the MOA. This unit would comprise a Project
Coordinator and his Deputy, a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, an
accountant and support staff. The Project Coordinator would act as
Secretary to the Steering Committee, ensure that its decisions are
implemented, monitor the provision of funds, prepare periodic reports on
Project programs and oversee preparation and audit of accounts. Assurances
were received at negotiations that the qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment of the Project Coordinator would be
agreeable LO IBRD. Conditions of Project effectiveness would be that the
Steering Committee has been established, the Project Coordinator recruited
and the PCU Accountant placed in post.
3.02      Each Project component would be implemented by the department or
agency normally responsible for such activities. MLGL would be responsible
for carrying out all work under the spatial/land use planning component.
NDB would administer the credit for ranch development in collaboration with
the Ranch Extension Unit. The Department of Animal Health would develop,
operate and matntain trek routes. The Animal Production Division would be
responsible for assistance to community grazing groups, related activities
involving livestock extension work in support of TGLP, and direction of the
Ranch Management Training Center. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
would undertake the work for restructuring the Department of Wildlife and
National Parks.
3.03      Annual Project Review (Annex V).  The Steering Committee would be
responsible for ensuring preparation of an annual report on the Project,
covering specific topics relating to implementation experience with the
project and the subjects requiring annual conzxltation with the Bank.
Assurances were received at negotiations that the report would be submitted
to IBRD by July 3Ist of each year, to be reviewed during supervision
missions. The annual review is especially important because the Project
involves a number of uncertainties, and investment programs should be
modified  and adapted during implementation in the light of experience.
B. Implementation Schedule
3.04      All project investments and financing for staffing and operating
costs would be provided over a five-year period. Details for each
component can be seen in the cost tables (Table T-I(c)- T-1(g)).
C. Management and Implementation of Specific Components
Land Use Planning aid Management
3.05      All land use planning activities urnder the Project wou'ld become
the responsibility of the Coordinator of Land Use Planning who would be
located at MLGL Headquarters. He would submit regular progress reports to
the Project Coordination Unit. He would establish District Planning Units
in the four Project Districts (Ngamiland, Central, Kweneng and Southern),
and coordinate the preparation of their land use plans ensuring such plans
adequately reflect national resource management policy. The position of
the Land Use Planning Training Officer, created under the Project, would be
established within MLGL but the officer would be seconded to the School of



- 26 -
Environmental Sciences of the University of Botswana. The Specialist
would, thus, be able to take advantage of the existing educational support
facilities available on campus and work with the professional planning and
geographical lecturing staff. He would carry out in-service training in
the districts which would be directly linked to on-going planning work, and
design postgraduate training for staff to assume senior positiors with the
various departments in the planning cadre. Terms of Reference for both the
Coordination and Training Officers are detailed in Annex III and assurances
were received at negotiations that the qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment for both specialists would be agreeable to
IBRD. Both specialists would be in post not later than December 31, 1985
and local counterparts would assume both positions by the conclusion of
year 3 of the Project.
3.06      District Planning Units.  Within the Project the four existing
Land Use Planning Advisory Groups would be upgraded into professionally
staffed District Planning Units (DPUs) by the inclusion of a District
Physical/Spatial Planner and a Land Use Planner. Membership of the DPU
would be confined to the District Officer Development, the District Officer
Lands, the two previously mentioned Planners, the Council Planning Officer
and the Regional Agricultural Officer representing the Land Board. Two
DPUs would be established in Year 1 of the Project (Ngamiland and Central)
and two in Year 2 (Kweneng and Southern). After due consultation with the
relevant agencies in the Districts, land use plans would be submitted to
the Coordinator of Land Use Planning in Gaborone for clearance by the
National Land Development Committee. Thereafter DPUs would work closely
with che Land Boards during implementation and be responsible for adapting
plans as new information becomes available. As the structure and
responsibility for land use planning at district level will be
substantially changed, a condition of project effectiveness will be that
the Permanent Secretary of MLGL issue written instructions designating the
responsibilities of the District Planning Units and the Land Boards.
3.07      The role of Land Boards as originators of land use plans would be
passed over to the District Planning Units and emphasis would be placed on
implementation of plans and administration of land matters. Strengthening
of Land Boards would be primarily through provision of Technical Assistants
from the output of the Polytechnic Institute in Gaborone. Twenty six
Subordinate Land Boards would receive staff but these posts require to be
placed on the establishment register. The Government would officially
establish these posts in all Subordinate Land Boards by April 1st, 1986.
This action would also assist in attracting trainees to the Polytechnic.
3.08      Land Development Division.  Immediately after Project start-up, a
consultancy would be undertaken to establish the most relevant methodology
for reflecting changes in the country's rangeland environment. This work
would then be used as the terms of reference for the Range Ecology Unit in
the MOA. In the first two years of the Project seven divisional staff
would undertake professional training on the land use and range ecology
disciplines. This would comprise postgraduate work for the Senior Range
Ecology and two Land Use Officers and undergraduate studies for two range
technicians and two assistant land use officers. Assurances were received
that the qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of the consultant
would be agreeable to IBRD, and the consultancy be init4 ated not later than
December 31, 1985.



- 27 -
3.09      Department of Wildlife and National Parks.  Implementation of the
work to review the organization structure and operations of DWNP would be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The
work would recommend: (i) the administrative changes considered necessary
for the effective fuaction of the department and its most appropriate
ministerial location; (ii) review proposals for development, research and
utilization projects with special reference to Wildlife Management Area
development; and (iii) examine the need for strengthening the Wildlife
Education Unit. Detailed terms of reference are included in Annex II and
assurances were received that the work would be initicted not later than
December 31, 1985.
Credit
3.10      Commercial Ranch Development.  The NDB Agricultural Credit
Division would have overall responsibility for the design and management of
the credit program for ranch development. Assurances were received that
all borrowers would have obtained leases to land in areas zoned
commercial", with ranches having identifiable and recorded boundaries.
Most applicants would require considerable assistance in preparing ranch
development plans; NDB ranch credit officers would, with the Ranch
Extension Unit and ranchers, develop plans adapted to the farmer's specific
land and cattle herd. Provision of services would be carefully reviewed,
and owners of contiguous ranches would be encouraged to cooperate in
reducing fencing costs. Loan agreements embodying the ranch development
plan would be signed, including simple but clear conditions, notably on
maintenance of stock numbers. NDB ranch lending operations would be
discussed during the annual review, including demand for loans, performance
of borrowers, and suitability of ranch models.
3.11      Group Ranching Scheme.  The Ranch Extension Unit working in
collaboration with a District Planning Unit and a Land Board would
implement the scheme of eight contiguous ranches for small livestock
farmers. The scheme would aim to provide ranches with the necessary
infrastructure for syndicates of 5-10 farmers. To encourage participation,
the boreholes would be provided free of charge but 90X of incremental ranch
development costs, including employment of a ranch manager for each ranch,
would be financed through a loan from NDB. Syndicates would be expected to
contribute 10% of development costs by provision of labour. To ensure
adequate supervision of the scheme and timely operational advice to ranch
managers, a Ranch Extension Officer would be outposted to the area.
Extension
3.12      Communal Grazing Management.  Serious overgrazing of the communal
areas has lead to a decline in value of beef product, the quantity of milk
and the ability of work oxen to carry out cultivation activities.  In an
attempt to arrest this trend, the Animal Production Division would foster
and develop community initiatives involving disciplined management of
grazing resources through personnel provided under the Project. These
officers would liaise with all ministries providing extension advice to
village communities and particularly with District Planning Units and Land
Boards. Where cohesive communities require assistance to develop
management associations and land management infrastructure (e.g. fencing,



- 28 -
firebreaks, etc.), plans and funding would be provided on a grant basis.
Assurances were received that the qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the two internationally recruited livestock
specialists would be agreeable to IBRD. In addition, assurances were
received at negotiations that the programs in this component would be
discussed during the annual review.
3.13      Ranch Management Training Center.  To facilitate the employment
of managers on commercial ranches, assurances were received that the RMTC
would become directly responsible to the Animal Production Division. The
Center would work closely with the Ranch Extension Unit and NDB and
identify suitable trainees who, when placed in ranches, would be serviced
by regular follow-up from the Center's Staff.
Trek Routes
3.14      The Trek Route Service in the Department of Animal Health would
be responsible for implementation of all physical infrastructure under the
Project. It would organize new borehole drilling and renovation of
existing units with the Department of Water Affairs, and arrange for
construction of the holding ground at Kwakwala and fencing in of
boreholes. Day to day maintenance would be carried out on the Ngamiland
and Kalahari trek routes by two mobile units. They would travel 4-5 times
a year on each trek route, staying for 1-2 days at each borehole to
maintain equipment and advise pump attendants on maintenance techniques.
Responsibility for major repairs would remain with DWA. Assurances were
received that the issue of a trek route user charge would be examined in
the Project's study of financial incentives/disincentives for the livestock
industry.
Livestock Prices and Financial Incentives/Disincentives
3.15      Two internationally recruited specialists would be attached to
the Project Coordination Unit and using working parties from the Department
of Planning and Statistics in the MOA and the Taxation Department, contri-
bute to broader Government efforts to review and refine beef pricing and
taxation policies. The specialists would help the PCU formulate proposed
adjustments to Government beef pricing and taxation strategy. This work
would be submitted to the Steering Committee and by the end of 1987
reviewed by the Government and IBRD. The Project Specialists, during their
tenure, would help establish a capacity within the responsible departments,
for an on-going review of beef prices and taxation on the livestock
industry.
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.01      Although the rangeland resource has, in the past, yielded a
sufficient level of beef production to fully utilise the country's abattoir
capacity, there is now growing evidence of serious overgrazing and range
degradation, which will threaten the long term viability of the cattle
industry. The Project aims to support the Government land tenure reform
program which would link producers to specific grazing areas, and encourage



- 29 -
further development of improved livestock management systems. About 1,000
farmers (800 small, 80 medium scale and 130 large producers) would be
directly involved in the proposed production components but the Project's
substantial efforts at building land use planning capacity and mechanisms
to introduce improved rangeland management have been designed to create the
basis for the eventual involvement of most of the country's 58,000 live-
stock farmers.
A. Financial Analysis
4.02      Quantifiable financial benefits have been projected for
representative ranches to be demarcated and established under the Project
but not attempted for the small farmer communal groups as the existing data
on the latter is insufficient on which to make meaningful judgements.
Ranch development during the project period will be limited to 130
individual or partnership ranches and 8 syndicate ranches involving groups
of smaller commercial farmers. The majority of farmers who will be
involved in the production/credit component of the Project have already
expressed interest in adopting improved range management practices and are
awaiting a ranch allocation from already demarcated areas.
4.03      Estimated returns to farmers were calculated on a representative
ranch model of 6,400 hectares. This model has been based on information
gathered during preparation/appraisal missions and is consistent with
results of existing commercial freehold ranches and the demonstration
ranches of the Animal Production Research Unit. The typical investment
cost on a ranch would consist of a 60Km perimeter fence and internal fences
for rotational grazing; firebreaks along external fencing; facilities such
as buildings, a handling yard and a spray race. In addition to this ranch
development (individual or syndicate), in some cases the producer(s) would
have to provide a borehole and its equipment.
4.04      From these investments it will be possible to obtain significant
improvements in performance coefficients (Table T-2(c)). Although the
stocking rate would remain constant, improvements in productivity would be
reflected in a progressively higher offtake percentage. Of specific
importance, verified by the recorded sales of existing commercial ranches
to the abattoir, would be improvement in the quality of beef offered for
sale (Table T-2(d)).
4.05      The impact of ranch investments on productivity is not
immediate and to take account of the lagged response, a grace period of up
to five years would be allowed before debt service begins, with interest
during the grace period being capitalized (Table T-2(f)). Although small
incremental benefits accrue in the first two years of development,
thereafter a steady stream of incremental cash benefits are realised.
After allowing for debt service the return total non-cattle investment is
17%. Overall return on total investment including cattle is 7% but the
attractiveness of ranching is improved by capital appreciation realised
through increase in land values. This factor has been apparent in sales of
existing commercial ranches and is likely to effect leasehold ranches as
the governing legislation on TGLP ranches allows for them to be bought and
sold.



- 30 -
B. Government Cash Flow
4.06      The Project would recover all credit costs of ranch development
through the NDB. When additional slaughtering capacity is made available,
increased throughput of animals would provide incremental tax revenues from
BMC. Although the Project would increase the Government expenses on
planning, extension and assistance to subsistence cattle producers, further
cash benefits (not quantified) would be expected to accrue to the
Government from production responses to these costs. Expatriate technical
assistance, financed under the Project, would be progressively replaced by
local professional staff over the initial five year period. The Government
Cash Flow is detailed in Table T-11. The currently estimated net deficit
(counting only the direct and readily quantifiable cash flows) peaks at
around BP3.7 million in a few years but, in most years is under P1.7
million. It should be noted that these projections do not take into
account possible revenue generation which might materialize as a result of
Project-funded study of livestock pricing and taxation policies, or the
fact that the Project should help put the sub-sector in a much stronger
long-term position to contribute to public revenue.
C. Economic Analysis
Costs
4.07      The economic costs taken into account in the economic analysis of
the Project are the capital and recurrent costs of the credit service,
extension service, and a portion (50%) of the management unit that were
assumed to be directly relevant to the ranch development and trek route
costs. These costs total 58% of all project costs. Costs of the planning
component, part of management unit and livestock pricing and tax policy
studies were excluded from this analysis because the benefits from t-.hese
activities would be reflected in production, not quantified here, which
should materialize from the broad range of improved land use over the
longer term.
4.08      General Assumptions.  The following general assumptions were made
in calculating the economic return:
(a) All prices are in constant mid 1985 prices.
(b) All costs include appropriate physical contingencies and are
net of identifiable taxes.
(c) Foreign exchange costs have been valued at the official rate
of exchange as it is considered to reflect its appropriate
value.
(A) Labor has been valued at its opportunity cost which, in the
case of unskilled rural labor, has been taken at 50% of the
present official minimum wage.



- 31 -
Benefits
4.09      Though the land use and conservation benefits over the long term
life of the overall TGLP program and the possible impact of the pilot
efforts to improve management of those areas which will remain communal are
dafficult to quantify precisely, the magnitude of the importance of this
program is clear when one recalls the potential of the livestock subsector
(para 1.28), a potential unlikely to be captured without the program. This
is further illustrated when one considers probable benefits of expected
direct participants in the TGLP ranch development activities under the
project and of the expected users of improved trek routes. These main,
more readily quantifiable benefits which would be realized as a result of
the Project would be: incremental production and increased quality of beef
resulting from ranch development and reduction of animal weight loss
resulting through improvement of trek routes. It is expected with the
availability of credit and improved extension service, some 130 individual
and partnership ranches would be established in the Project period and a
pilot scheme of 8 syndicate ranches would attract about eighty smaller
livestock producers. These developments would result in incremental beef
production and improved quality of beef. It is assumed that marketed beef
production would be exported, and this has therefore been valued at world
market export parity price adjusted to reflect costs of transport and
handling. The expected benefits of incremental production and value of
beef are presented in Tables T-8.
4.10      Trekking, as a traditional method of moving cattle to a market
point, accounts for about 13-15% of all cattle received at BMC. Cattle
using these routes suffer from straying on route, and from weight and
grading losses due to long daily trekking distances.   It is currently
estimated that 9% weight loss occurs using existing treks. The trekking
component is expected to lead to a reduction of losses by 3%. With an
average of 30,000 head of cattle using these routes annually, about 6 kg
(carcass weight) per animal would be saved. The estimated annual
incremental benefits and costs are presented in Table T-9.
4.11      Economic analysis on the land use planning component, which
constitutes a substantial investment of the Project (26%), has not been
carried out. The benefits from this activity are expected to have a wide
impact over a long time frame. However, it is anticipated that the costs
of not assisting the planning initiative would result in further
degradation of the land and loss to the economy. It is expected, that if
the present system of communal grazing in which land is treated as free
resource, is not changed, herd productivity would progressively decline.
Tnrough the land use planning, it is expected that a process would be put
in place that would, in the long run, counteract the productivity loss, and
achieve a sustainable carrying capacity on the range resource. The
planning component, as included in the Project, would be the foundation of
a long term program (20 years), of which the immediate benefits are
difficult to quantify.
4.12      In addition, in-depth analytical work would be undertaken through
the Project, to imprnve the beef pricing and taxation structure to
encourage long-term sustainable quality production from the livestock
sub-sector. Assistance would also be provided to the Department of



- 32 -
Wildlife and National Parks to ensure that the Department is adequately
structured to handle wildlife management ateas and administer the national
conservation strategy, of which the benefits cannot be easily quantified.
4.13      At full development the quantifiable incremental tonnage of beef
produced annually as a direct result of Project activities would be about
2,600 tons. About 2,200 tons would be realised from 138 ranches and 400
tons from improvement in final slaughter weights of cattle using trek
routes between the production areas and the abattoirs. Non-quantifiable
benefits can be realistically expected from both the implementation of the
Project planning activities and the reshaping of the pricing and taxation
policies in the sub-sector.
Economic Rate of Return
4.14      Based on the above assumptions and adjustments, the internal,
economic rate of return (ERR) to Botswana's economy from the Project, has
been calculated over a 30 year period. Separate rates of return have been
calculated for ranch development and trek route improvements. The results
of these analyses are:
Component                   ERR%
Ranch Development                   15
Trek Route Improvement              33
Combined                            16
Sensitivity Analysis
4.15      A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to examine the
effects of changes in costs and benefits assumptions on the ERR. The
switching values for the entire Project shows that benefits would have to
drop by 27% or costs increase by 37% for the Project to be rendered
unacceptable at a 10% discount rate. This might happen if drought
conditions continue to worsen, hampering ranch development; or if a
countrywide outbreak of foot and mouth disease would limit meat exports; or
if the real cost of construction were to increase dramatically. For the
economic rate of return calculations, world market prices were used to
value the beef. Sensitivity tests were made to determine the impact on the
Project's economic rate of return of three major risks: that benefits might
lag behind costs, that beef export prices would be substantially lower and
ranch development costs would be considerably above estimated. Firstly, if
implementation difficulties caused benefits to lag three years with no
change in costs, the rate of return would only fall to 10%. Thus, the
economic viability could survive those effects of an adverse administrative
environment. Secondly, if the price of beef drops 20% lower than
forecasted, the rate of return would fall to 12%. Thirdly, if for some
reason real costs of construction were to increase by 20%, the rate of
return would be 12%. Changes in the overall rate of return under
alternative assumptions are summarized below:



- 33 -
ERR
Benefits lagged by 3 years          10
Costs up by 20%                     12
Costs up by 50%                      9
Benefits down by 20%                12
Benefits down by 50%                 4
Risks
4.16      The Project represents a fundamental part of a Botswana's long-
term development program. However, there are certain definite risks. On
the production side, the continuation of drought, which has adversely
affected livestock development in Botswana for the last three years, poses
the highest risk, especially with regard to farmers reluctance to borrow
funds for ranch development. However, because of the better management
proposed, the priject ranches would be able to minimize the effect of
drought. The outbreak of foot and mouth disease could affect benefits by
limiting beef exports.
4.17      There are also significant political and socio-economic risks.
Although the Government has expressed firm renewed commitment to the land
reform and land use and conservation objectives of TGLP, implementation of
controlled grazing and demarcation of rangeland represents a fundamental
(though already initiated) change from traditional practices. Inevitably,
localized difficulties in reaching fully amicable decisions on means to
implement the land use plans, and demarcate areas controlled for designated
uses and users, will come up. However, the Government's political
commitment to the program, coupled with the fact that the Project scope and
phasing are modestly dimensioned and the fact that the Project itself would
represent a significant strengthening of the Government's ability to
monitor, assess and act to solve problems which may emerge, should help
reduce these risks.
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was received on the following
points:
(a)  a letter would be received from the Government detailing an
acceptable proposed timetable for design, construction and
commissioning of a new abattoir (para 2.03);
(b)  On-lending terms to livestock producers through NDB would be
at 16% interest for amounts under P50,000 and at 17%
interest for amounts over P50,000 with repayment over 17
years including up to five years grace but these would be
regularly reviewed by the Government and IBRD during the
Project (para 2.14).
(c)  the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the internationally recruited staff and short
term consultants would be satisfactory to IBRD (paragraphs
2.18, 3.01, 3.05, 3.08, and 3.12);



- 34 -
(d) by December 31st, 1987, the Governmment and IBRD would
review the recommendations of the Project's specialists on
pricing and taxation in the livestock sub-sector and
thereafter agree on a timetable for implementing agreed
recommendations (para 2.18);
(e)  (i) separate accounts for the Project would be maintained by
the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Local Government &
Lands and NDB, all consistent with accepted accounting
practices; (ii) independent accountants, selected by the
Government and acceptable to IBRD, would audit Project
accounts annually; and (iii) the Government would make
available audited accounts and reports on them to IBRD
within six months after the end of the fiscal year (para
2.25);
(f) the Steering Committee of the Project would submit an annual
report on the Project for review with IBRD (para 3.03);
(g) the internationally recruited Coordinator of Land Use
Planning and Land Use Planning Training Specialist would be
in post not later than December 31, 1985 (para 3.05);
'h) local counterpart staff to assume the responsibilities of
the Coordinator of Land Use Planning and the Land Use
Planning Training Specialist would be in place by the end of
the third year of the Project (para. 3.05);
Ci) the Government would place on the establishment register,
technical assistant posts in the Subordinate Land Boards by
April 1, 1986 (para 3.07);
(j) the consultancy for the Range Ecology Unit and work with the
Department of Wildlife and National Parks would be initiated
not later than December 31, 1985 (para 3.08 and 3.09);
(k) NDB would ensure that borrowers for ranch development would
have obtained leases in commcrcial zones (para 3.10);
(1) uptake of development packages for communal land development
would be reviewed on an annual basis and if demand exceeded
funds allocated under the Project, co.nmercial ranch
development funds would be moved to this component (para
3.12);
(m) the direct responsibility for the Ranch Management Training
Center be vested in the Animal Production Division of the
MOA (para 3.13); and
(n) the Government would review the issue of a trek route charge
for full cost recovery of services, during the Project's
study on financial incentives/disincentives (para 3.14);



- 35 -
5.02       Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IBRD has been
cxecuted between the Government and NDB (para 2.21); and
(b) the Project Steering Committee has been established and, the
Project Coordinator recruited and the PCU accountant placed
in post (para 3.01);
(c) the Government has issued written instructions through the
Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Local Government and
Lands officially designating the responsibilities of the
District Planning Units and Land Boards (para 3.06);
5.03       The proposed Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$
10.7 million to the Government of Botswana at the standard variable
interest rate/annum for a term of 19 years including a 4 year grace period.



- 36 -
Table T-1(a)
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIUESTOCK RROJECl
PROJECT COST SUMARY
(PULA '000                (US% 000)                        Total
Z------------------------    ---------- --- --------    I  Foreign  Dl is
Local  Foreign   Total    Local Forelin   Totai   Exchnge    Costs
A. LAND USE PLANNING COMPONENT
NINlSTRM  OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND LADS                                              57.0  1,451.6  1.50.6    32.0   915.5   847.6             96        6
DISTRICT PLANNING UNI1                                                           1.327.2   974.5  2,301.7   745.    547.4  19293.1            42        9
LAND  fhRDS                                                                        989.5   947.7 1937.1   555.9   532.4  1.098.3             49        8
STRENGTHENING LAD DEVELOPMENT DIVISION                                              34.0   734.5   768.5    19.1   412.6    431.7             96        3
STRENUTIENING OF VILD LIFE DEPARTMENT STRENGTHENING OF UILI)LIFE DFPARATMENT        3B.7        -     38.7     221.7       -     21.7          -        0
5u-Total LAD USE PLAMNING COMONENT                                                  .-446.4  4,1O0.2  6.554.6  11374.4 :'30B.0  3.682.4          63       26
P. TREK  ROUTE CONPNET                                                                726.1  1,152.2  1978.3   407.9   647.3  1055.2           61        7
C. LIVESTOCK EXTENSION  CONENT                                                      1.566.5  3.53;.2 5-097.7   980.1  lMO83M   2863.9            69       20
D. NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT VW  - CREDIT SERVICES                                       2,716.4  7.865.5 10.581.9  I1526.1  4.410.8  59944.9         74       41
E. PROJECT CORDI:-AFION UNIT                                                          229.8 9   '9.6  l.218.4   129.1   555.4   684.5            el        5
F. LIVESTOCK PRICINL  I TAX POLICY STUDIES                                                -    330.0   330.0         -    185.4   185.4         100        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                  7,685.2 17.975.7 2.5-60.  4,117.5 10,099.7 14,416.2          70      100
thnsacal Continumies                                                                 130.3   1P3.7   314.9    73.2   103.2   176.4              so        I
Price Contingefncis                                                                :.429.1  3.308.1  5,737.2 IL364.7  IF58.5  3.223.1          56       22
Total PROJECT CoSTS                                                                  10-:44.6 21.467.4 31,712.1  5.755.4 12.060.4 17,815.B         68      124
z...    :t.ssts  *rR. t    .. a*sfs ..sz...   a.ssss  a.wnw... *... sha
April 30. IM9 10:36



NATIONAL LAND WANAGENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ProJect Coaponents bh Year
Totals Includini Contingencies                        Totals Includirn  ConUti.nicWs
IPU.A '000)                                            (USI '000)
......... ............. .......... ................  ------------------------------------------------ .... ...... 
195    1986    1987    1988    1989    Total         1985    1916    1987    1998    1989    Total
=sonzRxxmzxgaoxx gaWzzsasitsU xxxt1n    sggem seasn  amazons........................... sZ..tal le  sans* a. s ses ses .
A, LAND USE PLANNING COGPONENT
. .........................
MINISTRY OF LOCAL G60ERNMENT AND LANDS                                                     227.1   407.3   415,6   449.2   287,2  1,786.4    127.6   228,8   233.5   252,3   161.3  1,003,6
DISIRICT PLANNING UNIT                                                                     78',3   842,0   323.8   374,9   503,2  24831.1    442,3   473,0   191.9   210,6   282.?  1,590.5
LAND ORDS                                                                                  314.4   191,6   939,8   379,8   789.5  2,612.1    176,6   105,9   528,0   213.4   443,5  1,467,5
STRENGTHENING LAND PEVELOPMENT DIVISION                                                    221,0   278,8  1.0.4   180,7    39,1    970.1    124,2   156,7    84.5   101.5    22.0    488.8
STRENSTHENING OF WILD LIFE DEPARTMENT STRENGTHENING OF WILDLIFE DEPARATIENT                 40,6                 -       -        -      40,6      22.8       -                 -        -     22.8
....... ....... ....... ....... .......... ........   ............................................. .......... ................. .......... .............
Sub-Total LAND USE PLANNING COi%ONENT                                                      lI590.5 1,716.7 1,929.6 1,384.5 1,619.0  84140.3    893,5   964,5 1P027,9   777,8   909.5  46573,2
D. TREK ROUTE COMONENT                                                                        909,7   784.9   156,4   173,4   261,1  2,285.5    511.1   4409,   87o9    W.4    146,7  1,284.0
C. LIVESTOCK EXTENSION  CGWONENT                                                              583,4   249,8 1,820.2 1.787.9 2.054.0  6,495.3    327.7   140,3 1.022.6 1.00,5 1154.0  3.649.0
D. NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PANK - CREDIT SERVICES                                              2,021.2 2#159,7 3.348.0  2o589.5 2849,0 12,968,0  1,135,5 l.213.3 1.881.3 1.454,8 1,600.6  7.285,4
E. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT                                                                  293.9   250.6   263.1   285,2   370,8  1,463,5    165.1   140,8   14748   160.2   208.3    822.2
F. LIVESTOCK PRICING I TAX POLICY STUDIES                                                          -   359.5        -                 -    359.5         -   202.0                 -        -    202,0
Totl PROJECT COSTS                                                                            5,398.6 5452142 7.417s9 6.220,5 7,153,9 31,71721  3.032,9 3s1013g 4o167,4 3.494,6 4019.0 17,815.8                            w
33::::: 2222323 2233322 22:2213a :232:23 33::3.:         22222   *222      2 22Zls=20-a 2    3rt-v22 3222222
.............................. ....................... .. . ...... ........ ... ............... ......................... .. . ........... ........ ............ .. .... ... .... ..... .
April 30. 1985  10135



NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PPOACT
LMAN  USE ti.NNING O NENT - MINISTRY OF LOCAL 6M. RNNENT AND LNDS
Detailed Cost Table
(PULA 000)
Totals Includins Contlintencues
OuantLtv                                  ?se Costs                      Totals Including Continsenies                       (US, '000)
.. .. .... .. . ..  - - u it  - -- - -- - --- -- - -- - -- - -- -       - --- --- -- - -- - -- -     -- --- -    .. . .. .   .. . ... ..    .  ...
Unit       195 19P6 1997 1991 1989 Total  Cost  19S  19M   1997  1989  1919  Toltl    1915  1996  19P7  1999  1999  Total    1915  199   1997  1989  1989  Total
1, IIMSTIINT COSTS
. __- .__ ........
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE
COORDINATOR Of LUP                       MNEAR            I    I    I    I    -      4   165  1650 1650 165.0 165.0        -   660.0  19.i 179.7 193.7 209.2        -   751.9   91.0 101.0 103.9 117.5        -   4223
LAND PLANWIN6 TO                         MANTEAR          -    I    I    I    I      4   165       - 165.0 165,0 165.0 1t5.0   660.0         -   9.7 193.7 209.2 225.9   908.6        - 101,0 109.9 117.5 126.?   454.2
Sub-Total tECHNICAL ASSISTANE                                                                     165.0 330.0 330,0 330.0 165.0 1,370.0  1It.1 359.5 37i4 419.4 225,9 1.5l603   95,0 202.0 217.6 235.0 126,9   976,6
P. VEHICLES I EQUIPMENT
4T STATION WAGON                           NO            I    I    -    -    1       3    20   20.0  20.0             -  20.0    60.0   20,5  21.9       *      -  27.7    70.1  I.S  12.3        -     -  15.6    39.4
EIUIPFENT                                   SET           I    -    -    -    -      1    27   27,0      -      -     -      -    27.0   27.7      -                  -    27,7   15.6       -     -     -      -    15.6
Sub-Total VENICLES I EQUIPMENT                                                                     47.0  20.0      -     -720.0    07.0   49.3  21.9         -     -7.7   `?979   27.1  12.3          -     -  156    55,0 
Total INfESTMENT COSTS                                                                               212.0 350.0 330.0 330.0 19P.0 1040740  217.4 381,4 387t4 419I.  253.6 1.59.1  122.1 214.3 217.6 235,0 142.5   931.5
3111*    2  333 gess3 B3s111  3213m  1113,31  33** 3*113FIR 3333  33233 11333  3333   3*33 3*323 32J 3*33* 3233as3s 33ses 2
11. RECREN/T COSIt
.......... .........___
A, SALARIES AND ALLIUMC
............ .............. 
CIVERS                                  MNAR            t    2    2    2    2       s   2.5    2.5   5.0   50   se.0   5.0    22.5    2.6   5.9   6.4   7.0   7.7    29.4    2.5   3.2   3.6   3,9   4.3    16.5
Cub-Total SALARIES AD ALLOWANCE                                                                    2.5   5.0   5,0   5.0   5.0    22.5    2.6   5.9   6.4   7.0   7.7    29,4    1.5   3.2   3.6   3,9   4.3    16.5
3. VEHICLE OERATION I MAINTENAE    10000 KM/TEAR  -                   -44 -    -    -              484 91  0          FIB   O.T    39.6    4,5   9.7  10.5  11.4  12.3    49,5    2.5   5.5   5.9   6.4   6.9    27.
C. EWIPENT OPERATION I MAINTENANE             SET          -  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  10.4   7.6         -   6,9   6.9   6.9   6.9    27.0         - 7.6   9'S   9.0   9.3    34.7          -   4.3   4o6   5.1   5.5    1t,5
D, OFFICE EXPENSES                                                                                 2.5   2.5    2.5   2.5   2,5    12.5    2.6   2.1   3.1   3.4   3.7    15.7    1.5   1.6   1.7 1.9   2.S             O,9
Total RECUREI!T COSTS                                                                                  9,4  23.S  23.1  23.1  23,1   101S6    9.9  25   9  29i2  30.81  33.6   124.2    5.5  14.6  15.9  17,a  13.9    72.
Total                                                                                                 221.4 373.1 353,1 M.l 208.1 1.5016  227,1 407.3 415.6 449.2 297,2 1,76.4  127.6 229.9 2'3.5 252.3 161.311003.6
. ............................... _ ............................._..........._. _. _................_  ..._  ._............._..._.__............... _ ......._._........-.._ .........___-.--_--_-
April 30. 1995  10323                                                                                                                                                                                                              '4



1ATIONlA  LAB N MO1T  3 LIVESTOC PO T
LId  USE PLWINS CtST - 0131R9CT  AMIIN  Wiml
hzAlled cost Table
IPIAA '000
totals Iftluilfi c4diri.uosi
Sumlite                                In. Cotes                    Totals Ineludii CoiIIntfldn"                     IUS1 '000
wit        IM  InA 1916  13   3 1    Tel  Cotl19   191  1917  19   191   Total    195 IM fel          7 1916  19 Isle!    1I   I1           7  19? 6  1939  Totl
aimsss alias *anx =           mss  **|wm as$&s n  ""  &"   sons eXXa s sesw atsa  as  novw osnsw 8="s M244 4 xa en" ~Gete wmsa   t  "mm %mot s
1. IIIflI COSllTS
A. CIVIL M6S5
NOIE TlK  11               IIo                       6    4   -               10 542  M5.2 216.1          -   .     .  542.0  372.9 271I5      -     -         644.4  209.5 152.5    -     -    -   362.0
HIINS LCI                                NO           4    4   -    -   -    t  24.5  93o "s.           -     -    -   196.0  112.4 122.7      .    .    .  235.1  6301.9            -           -   132.1
5~hT.la1 CIVL IOMS                                                                         423.2 314.3     -    -      -   fl3.0  435.3394.2         - -      -  179,5  M.6 221.o4    .      .         494.3
t. WNIILtES W  (uJIMPI
434 Pl-um                               No           4    4   -   -   4    12 1.7  4l.3  6.3           -    - 4.13  200.4  63.6  n3.          -    - 92.5  234.4    3.5  41.1          -    51,9  13i15
IOUiPIn                                 SE           2   2    -    .    .    4 37.4  74.1 74,3          -    -          -   149.6  76.1  11.9        - .       1. I7   41.1  46o0    -    -           t9.1
AERIA MKTNPMIT 50 KMt                  KOCK          2    2   2   2   2    10  11.1  22.2 22.2  22.2  22.2  22.2  3ii.0   2.3  24.) 26.2  23.4  3.7  132,4   2.  11.6  14.7  li6f  17,3   74.4
-Total  WERIMI AN   UIM7                                                                   16.      .  22.2  22.2    .   441.0  16.2 179.2  26.2 23.4 123.2  52 1.2  94.5 100.7  14.7  16.  69,2  295,!
ToUl  IESTIINT COlS                                                                           537.047.6  22.2  22.2  39.0 313.0  M53.S 73.4  26.2  20.4 123.2  4047  367.1 3221. 14.7  16,0  69,2   79.2                       '0
11. REC    T COSTS
A. IMAIE     0 MN LLONEI
nI m933                              3m4E(          6   10  10  10  10   46  12.    .4 129.0  129.0 129.0 12t30   593.4   Al.3 149.0 163.9 130.3 1".3   m.o   45.7   37  92.1 131.3 111.4  434.1
TM n                                   WImI         4    3   I    I   I    36   4.5  13.0  36,0  36.0  36.0  36.0   12.0  13.9  41.6  45.7  50.1  55.3  211.9  10s  21.4  25.7  23.3  31.1   19t.0
N1RUl SR3                            wIptm          4    3   8    I   3   36   2.5  10.0  20.0  20.0   20.0  20.0    0.0  10.5  23.1  2.,4  21.0  30.7  117,7    5.9  11,0  14.3  15.7  17.3   H6.1
Shu-Tol SAIMLIEI   MO 1LlWC1                                                              1.4 135.0 115.0 15.0 135.0    5.4  110.7 213.7 2JS.0 29.5 23.4 I 102.3  62.2 120.0 132.0 141.3 159.3  6193
3.  .L_IN  I
mmSE TfE 11 0 N-   0.0   0.0  12.3  12.3   25,7                                                                                     0.0  0,0  17.1  11.1   35.7            0.0  o0f  9,l  10.5   20.1
110UK L09                                            .        .     .    .    .                2.2  2.2   4.4  4.4    13.2        -  2.5  2.7   5.3  6.4   l7.4              1.4  1.5  3.31  3.4      9
-totul UWILMIS AINE2                                                                          -  2.3   23  17.2  17.2    3.9         -  2.5   2.0  22.  25.0   51.1        -   1.4  1.  12.t  14,0   2t.3
C. t1CLeE P11N   MIKTINMCE    I000 M   IMW              4   3   3   I   I   36   4.4  17.6  35.2  355.2 1.2  5.2  153.4  13.3 3Jl.  42,0  45.5  494   Ms3.t  10,2  21.1 23,6  25,6  27o7  IN                           a-i
3. EMIIW   PWRTION I MlANT        1                     .        .    .    .     .                  2.4   4.1  4.3   4.1   16.l          2.7   5.9  4,4   7.3    2lst      -   1.5  313   3.   1.   12.3               g
E. wlICE   t  I.S                                            .       .    .   .             4.9   9it       . 9.6  9.6   43.2   5.0  10,9  11f9  13.0  1403   531   ".13  I.l  6.7   7.3  got   31.0
Total RE1tB   Cu                                                                              127.31234,5 236,9 251.3 251.3 1.102,7  133.3 241.6 297.6 34,4 N.0  10426.4  7521 309 167.2 194.6 21335   801.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 0..  wom  mo   a.*                                             . *%lu
Total                                                                                          714.3 713.1 259.1 274.0 340,3 25301.7  727.3 342.0 373.3 37A.3 503,2 ?U31.   442.3 470 13l.9 210.  32.7 11590.5
Aprl 30. 1M 10123



IOTSWA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK P*OACT
LAND USE FPAINO COWrONENT - LAND BOARDS
Doteiit rost Table
(PULA 000)
Totals ha11,i t ContIngencies
fuantitt                                    Base Costs                      Totals Including Contlnumiet!                         (OUSI  0001
-..-- ----...---------..------  Lunit  ----u--------------------------------  ---------~-------------. I-------I-  ---------- I--,' --_I----
Unit    I"S 9 1966 3987 1988 1989 Totil  Cost  1985  39e6  187  398E  19S8   Total    1985  1985  1987  1988  1919  Total    1985  2986  1987  198   1989  Totll
3:3:2::   :X22.3 .*..  3333 *a 3333 3333 :          ::33 : :3   ::: 3333:33:22 ::srs22  3.:-3.  2332s :x312 333 3s2333 33s : 3- 3  33333  23ass         1 3wsa  3333 2532  33333
1. INVESTMENT coSts
A. CIVIL WAtRS
MO\SING LCHJ                              NO         3    -   13    -    -    16  24.5   73.5           - 318.5      -      -   192.0   84.3       - 438,6      -      -   522-6   47,4       - 246.4      -      -   293.7
OrFiCEs 60 M2                             NO         6    5    5    5    5    26  23.8  142.8 119029.0   119.0    119 . 0   618.8  163.8 147.0 113.9 18,4 195.9   855.8   92.0  83.7  92,1 101o4 111.7   480.8
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                           264.3 119,0 437.;.  119.0 119.0 1.030.8  248.0 149.0 60204 I3O.4 195.8 1,378.7  139.3  83.7 338.4 101.4 111.7   774,5
P. VEHICLES I EOUIPSENT
404 PICT-UP                                          -          -       4    -    4  8  1.7     -     -  66-8       -  66.8   133.6        -      -  78.9      -  92.5   171.4        -      -  44.3      -  Sl.-    96.3
DRAWING EQUIPMENT                         SET        4    -   10    -   10    24   3.1   12-4          -  31.0          31.0    74.4   12.7        -  36.6      -  42.9    92.3    7,2        -  20.6      -  24.1    51.8
SURWY EOUIPMENT                           SET        4    -   14    -   15    33   3-6   14.4           *  50.4      -  54.0   ItS1s   34.8        -  59.6      -  74.7   149.1    8.3        -  33.5      -  42.0    83.8
POLYTECHNIC EOI3E9NT                      SET        I    -    -    -    -         1  73.6   23.6       -     -      -      -    23.6   24.2       -      -     -      -    24.2   J334       -      -     -      -    13.6
Sub-Total VEHICLES I EQUIPMENT                                                                   50.4      - 138.2      - 150.8   3  0.4   5'-7       - 175,1       - 210.3 137.0   29.3          -  984       - 0181.0   245. 
lotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                             266.7 119,0 585.7 119.0 270-8 13.61.2  299.8 149.0 777.5 280.4 408.9 1815.7  168.4  83.7 436.8 10134 229.7 1.020.0
flitS... .....Z2323-      ....3 323 33333 .hE      2f23.2      CPS 33ff31f  232.132  33332 3331  33233PV  33323 33322 C23333Z2-
II. TECUPRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCE
. ...............
TAS TS                                 MANVEAR      -    -   13   13   26    52   4.5           -     -  58.5  58.5 117.0   234.0          -      -  74.3  81.8 179,9   335.9         -         -  41,8  45.9 101.0   388.7
ERIVERS GR3                            MANTEAR      -    -    4    4    8    16   2.5           -     -  10-0  10.0  20.0    40.0                 -  12.7  14,0  30.7    574                      7,1   7.9  17.3    32,3
Sub-Total SALARIES AND ALLOWANCE                                                                   -      -  68.5   8.5 137.0   277.0         -      -  97.0  9,7 210.6   393.4           -     -  48.9  53.8 118.3   221.0
P. SUILDING MAINIENANCE                                 --   1.8   3.    1.8   7.9    134                                                      -   7,0   2.2   2.4  13.5    18.2          -   1.1   1.2   1.4   6.5    10.2
C. OFFICE MAINTENANCE                                                                              -   3.4   3.4   6.1   6.1    19.0          -   3.9   4.2    .3   9.1    25.4           -   2.2   2.4   4.6   5.1    14.3
0. EOUIPMENT OPERATION I MAINIENANCE
DRAWING EQUIPMENT                                                                               -   0.5   0.5   1.6   1.6        4.2       -   0.6   0-6   2;1   2.3        5.6       -   0,3   0.3   1.2   1.3         3.2
SUEVEY EWJIPMENT                                                                                -   0.6   0.6   0.6   2,4        4.2           0.7   0.7   0.8   3.5        5.7       -   0.4   0.4   0,4   2.0         3,2
POLYIECINIC EQUIPMENT                                                                           -   0,6   0.6   0.6   2.4        4.2       -   0.7   0,7   0.8   3.5        5.7       -   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.0         3.2
VEHICLE OPERATION I MAINTENANKE                                                      -            -       37.0  12.0  34.0    68.0                -  20.8  22.7  49.'    92.8 1-  11,7  12,7  27.8    522                             p
Sub-Total EUIPIENT OPERATION I MAINTENANCE                                                         -   1.7  38.7  19.   40.4    80.6          -   I.S  2?.9  26.4  58.7   109.9               1.1  12.8  14H   33.0    61.7
E. OFFICE EFPENSES                                                                             3140  25.0  37,0  49.0  61.0   389.0   14.6  31.8  45.9  66.6  90.7   249.6    8.2  17.9  25.8  37.4  51,0   10.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.--.-... ..... ..... ..... .... .......   .....- ..... .....-- ..... ...... -- .......   ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .......-------- - -- -* -- --- F
Total RECLRMENT COSTS                                                                               14.0  34.9 129.4 145.2 252.4   575.9   14.6  39.6 162.3 099.4 380.6   796.4    8-7  22.2  93.2 112.0 213.8   447.4                        I
......... .2...2 223233333..... ..  3.33,s   32 . , , 3323 .823 23333 33333    322,233 323 *        333C3 ....3333333333u.#...A..., _
Total                                                                                               280.7 153.9 715.1 264.2 523.2 I.937.1  314.4 188.6 939.8 3'9.8 789,5 24l2.1  176.6 IO!..S 528.0 213.4 443.5 2,467.5 
33232        ...*..33    333  33333 333333;  Sa33  32c   w233 33m3  3333st 233.2.3  33333 3333 333 33s  3fl X#33  3E32323
bril 30. 3915  10:24



LOIS WAMA
NATIONAL LMWANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LAND USE PLANINIG CompoNENT - SIRVNOTHENING LAND DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
Detaited Cost Tble
(PULA 000)
Totals Including Continrencies
Ou.ntity                                    Base Costs                   Totals Including Contintencies                     (US1 '0001
-- ------ ---- -----             t   i t  ... .. . ... .. . . ..    ---- .. . ... ... .               -- -------          - ------   ---- -----  --------- *---
Unit      I198  1996 198? 198198  Totil  Cost  1985  1986  1987  1S98  19 Total  1985  1986  1987  1988  19S9 Total  1985  1986  1997 1998  1989 Totel
:::::::2::              112: :::=   :2*2 S 3t:2  :::*r    t: :5:..  nit1. Zssf  rose 1s2a 12c: 21223 :2:3r: :        ::::     ::::       *2:1? :::: t ::x  ar:: s..t: tsin  nan
I. INYESTIENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTAKCE
1, EXPATRAITE CONSULTANTS
, .................
CONIMTAKY OM                  MAMDNA TH        8    -    -    -    -         8    11   88.0       -      -      -    -  98.0   90.2        -     -      -    -  90.2   50.7        -    -       -    -  50.7
Sub-Total EXPATRAITE CONSltlANTS                                                           88.0       -     -      -    -  98.0   90.2        -      -      -    -  90.2   50.7        -    -      -    -  50.7
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                8E.0       -      -     -    -   8.0   90.-                     -    -  90.2   50.7        -    -       -    -  50.7
P. IRAINIHG                         COURSE YEAR  -127.5 255.2 127.6 141.8 29.4 680.5  130.6 271.8 150.4 180.7 39.1 779.9   71.5 156.7 84.5 101.5 22.0 438,2
Total INVCSIIT COSTS                                                                             215.5 255.2 127.6 141,8 28.4 768.5  721,0 279.8 150.4 180.7 39.1 870.1  124.2 156.7 84.5 101.5 22.0 488.8
1:ts:  :oa2: a::z ::::: :-: t1:.s  =:15:  m215s  2Z:.2 au_ss  fl: t:uis Iats   i:.a: ass.. *::  saw 21:3s
Total                                                                                             215.5 255.2 127.6 141.8 28,4 768,5  221.0 278.8 150.4 180,7 39.1 870d1  124.2 156.7 94.5 101. . 22.0 489.9
3222:: :22s  ::Ras 1:3as ::S: SS:::  22:22 tsirv            seas: 1222 11*25 s:    3-ae *.l:oo 5?   23522 Mar. s: a.::
April 30. 1985 10125
'-



IM. LAN HNANIMMt UN  LIEIIOIK      ECI
LAND USE PtOMIIN6 CIFWIT - STUIt1UT)N16 VIUIFE WtPMTIEK
ktIlIW  Cuel Tiobl
(NU  '000)
ir4km  of Totls Incil Cant
lust '000)
Totals lnrclyrM  Continncivn
hwMtIt                               las. Cosls             Totals  noeludini Continnnele,              (Ull '000)                    Local
-~~~~~ui -*--    Ull----              -----   --- e- -         - ------- - ----------------                               For.  lixel. Puiti  a
Unit    15 1   117I1  1M   Totl Cost    IT1 19 17 191   Im                      191 9I16 1917 11  19             195o191 9IM  7 1"9  1M M    ToUl  Exrh. Taxes)   Texts   Total
I. KIMNI COSTS
As SALARIES An ALLOWaS
POFFt3          IWAYEMA                 3   -     -    -    -      3 12. 38    7.             - .   - 39.7     6    5 .       .        40,6 22.3      -    -    -    - 22,         -    22.3            22.3
lb-Tot.l SAAIuE  AD ILLUAIUS                                                   31.7    -    -    -    -  31.7  40.6    -    -    -    -  40.6  22.    -    -    -    -  22.            -    228          -  22n
Total  ECtlfT CosrTS                                                              36.7         -     -    -  30.7  40.6    -    -    -    -  40.6  2.,      -    -    -    - 22.3         -    22,.         -  22.S
Total                                                                              38.    -    -    -    -  30.7  40.6           -    -    -  40.6  22       -          -   -    - 2?.3    -    22.3         - 22.1
Aril SOp 1185  10126
I-



- 43-Table T-1(h)
myTrn. LIMO 14A633! S LMIWS Ma.t.
oUilad Cost Table
unit ~ ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ ~ (it    S
tirt    i'm   I   3191 7 394  1939 TOta  Cat  1it  1136  317  188  3ITO   Total    19153  1tin   317 9 19 39I"     Tsuial 13   191  2I"7 18  19"9  TOta
a. OTAsIsIIII w  umN IRI
MICR    IUm IU3YI                        I6              -        - -        -  1135533.3        -      -     -     -   55.3 62.?         -     -     -     -    32.v  3.33         -    -    -         35.1
IFs  1394 5                                U         34    -    -    -    -    14   1.2  16.8       -     -     -      -    241.3   19.2    -     -     -      -    29.2   10.8             - -            0.8
f Tl-M Egl    A N W3T5.i      L      UMAX                                                     7.3 1                            72.1  112.1                             1241  46.1      -    -           -    46.1
UNWORN        Wm  mm6                              2    3    -     -    -     5  55.3  310.6 635.9      -           - 24.5  2254203.3           -     -     - 32949  70.71314.2    - -    -           28.
Uinn   lN                         4         2    3    -    -    -      3  55.3  110.6  55.3     -      -     -   163.9  123.3  6748     -      -     -   193.5   70.7  3M 1       -    -       303.1
TM  Wmini                             I0        1    1    -    -    -      2535.3   35.3 5.5         .     .     -   116.6  42.9  67.3       -     -     -   1330A    35.1  3.31      -    -         73.4
mu-amy.                                    a         3    3    -    -    -      6  55.3  365.9 165.'    -       -     -   131.3  13.6 201.3       -     -     -   393.9  106.01:14.2        -    -       220.2
SwI-11tal      3f1ICR                                                                        442.4 V44.4                      111- 4.0  563.1 542.0  -            - 1445.1  224 3343    -               - 3.3
C. FDIC     31  2W  a             U sin
staI             n s                                24 24    -    -    -    43 1.2281.33.25               -     -     -    57.6   32.9 35.,       -     -      -    68.3  ILI 20.0       - -    -          31.
mNAtm l4M l Onl                                      41  Al    -    -    -    12I.2   49.2 49.?           -     -     -    13.4536.1  608         -     -      - 116.9   312.53432    -    -         .    6.7
.       a1111.131 4 .me                    a         16   36    - -       -    32   2.2   19.7  19.2      -     -     -    33.4   21.9  23.7      -     -     -    45.6  122.3  J13.     - -    -         254
bbTSSaw           a         tin m     an                                                      97.2 -97.2     -     -      -  39. 4  319.9 -13-.1     -           - 21.   4.  417.5    -                     22.3
Sin                              K~      ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~ 14    -    -    -    -    14 0,5  7.7 - -    - -         7.7    7.9      -     -     - -         7.9    4.4      -    -    - -          4.4
19~~                        n         12    -    -   -    -    1o  .n6 .1            -     -     -      -     3411.6         -  -                     342.           -    -  -              2.0
ATli5=IMM                                  3          3 3-          -    - -    310.26    4.7      -    -       -     -     8.7    3.4            -                 5.3-  -    - I  .       -             3.8
01U3.ML.AfEw"                              IS         1         -  -  -  3  47 47.0   -  .                               47.0 49.2-'32,2.6   -  -       -774
fl-TOW flU tESTIS flUES                                              ~~~~~~~~~                    ~~~~~62.5-  -  -   - 2.  80-       --  -  - 6.  71- -- -   - 371.
IE. 559381 ff15 N SWIMZlU
I IN MB-P                                  U         3    -    -    -    3      6  16.6  49.8      -      -     - 49.3   '9.6  53.3        -      -     -  43.9   220.2   23.7     -    -    -  33.'    67.5
finrnmr                                    KT        2   -      -   -    -      2       4.2    3.'    -   -     -     -     0.4    3.6--          -     -     -     3     4.3                -            4.3
GF2UUIM UMHMST                                      I      -       -              23 . -    -    -    -3  2.3 2.9 -          -     -     -     2.19.y 14                                -    -           1.6
-f-Told   13131  V  TUE    21M SONG                                                          4.0       -           -4.61  130.3  62.4          -     -    -  43.9   131.6   33.2       -    -    -  33.7    73.9
TotA  iluinhi      CUT                                                                           32259.                  4W9. 1d'4.6  924.7 362.2       -     -63.9 1,ES.3  463.3 372.0    -           _- .7   sits
ii.   m    mu
man                            U ~~~~~ ~           ~ ~~~~ 1.5    1  1 I      4.5   2.9    7.0   3.9   3.?   3.9   3.9    17.6    2.0   4.5   5.0   5.5   6.1   23.1    1.1   2.5  2.2  3.1   1.4    23.8
iFW                                       U         -    0   II  14  1.4    50  4.46        - L0.    1.3   3.1   3.1    -'.0        -   0.7   1.4   2.6   1.1      5.       -   0.4  0.3  .9.   2.0      3.1
Ss-IP"Id   RIaM        2s .s  a's5 5. 3.0   1.0 ,                                                                            21.6    2.0   5.2   6.4   7.1   7.1   22.7    1.2   2.9  3.6  4.6   4.4    16.1.
3. la  flUff                                 U         3   12  16   13   36    be   3.9   n1.:  46.3  C.4  62.6  62.4  245 2   32.7  54.0  79.6  ILl1  '7.3   351.9  23.4  33.3 44.7 49.3  54.3   197.7
C. hEl    ERsTISal     InM  mhULm            PMI      36  132  272  172. 172   774  0.49    6.9  33.31 13.5  t3.0  13.6    61.'   7.2  15.9  17.7  1'.6  21.7   92.1    4.1   9.0  9.? 12.0  3.7.2    46.1
3. MN KMl SICE
ESWIM                                   UNES        I    I    1    2    1      5  25.3   25.3   5. 3  25.1  25.3  25.3   226.5   26. 310.0  33.6  37.7  42.2   170.4   15.1  14.9 23.9 22.2  73.7   95.7
ffE1101  OTONIE    N INTEAZ               Ko        3    3    2   3    3    15   4.3   12.9  22.9  12.?  12.9  12.'   64.5   31.3  14.3  35.5  36.9  23.4   731."    1.5   3.0  3.7  '.5  10.4    44.1
OWIn  W M-                                                -                               2.3   2.3   2.1   2.3   2.3    11.5    7.4   2.7   3.0   3.3   3.6   l4AS    1.4   1.3  1.7  1.8   2.0         3.4
011  mUIEISI   egg                                                                        0.5   3. .5 0 .1    0.5 0.       2.5    0.5  0L.  0.6   o.7   0.6        3.2    0.3   0.3  0.4  1.4   0.4      1.3
flt-TotalII iN    M    SEIC!E                                                               42.0  41.0  411.4  43.4  '1.0   -5.0   43.2  47.6  52.3  33.6  65.1   267.2   24.2  2i.?729P.7 32.9  36.5   139.0
Total iEM        muS                                                                            31.0 106.3 122.2 222.2 222.2  533.7  g3.0 173.7 256.4 173.4 312.72  22'9.7  47.3  6.3.1 7.1 97,4 103.0  43.90
Tota                                                                                            836.2 60.7 122.2 122.2 172.0 1.70.  '01.7 734.9 256.4 373.4 261.1 2 .5513.1 440.9 37.?97.4 1441.7 3,340.0
April3It. IM1134226



VflCIt4 LA"MW114 N400  MMt LIWITOCK PP9GC?
LIWITWAC EVIEN5StO CoMUIK
Ivtaill60 Ca't labia
Toall, Trcludint Cantlnoitmla
OuaMlto                           S~~~~~~~~~~atl costs                  Total, Includlog CoMlontnctas                                  (US, ooo)
unit     1915t 1916  ot  1930 299 Total  Cost  195   91 198 7 "        19119   2930   Total    1915  1916   I'll    203I   1119   Total               lot   19J6  191?    191        1919   Tat,I
A. TECHNIICAL ASSISTAICC
1. VTATR TAT! CO&LTA6T
LIWEITO   SttC11.11lUl   A          8140(0         1    I    2    2    2       8   265  161.0 165.0   330.0   230.0   330.0 1.320.0  269.2 I'9.7   317,4   418.4   451.8 1,606.3               05.0 101.0   217.6   233.0   253.8   902.5
O.-Tb-otal ETPATI2ATE (03512M3                                                               165.0 165.0   330.0  2110.0   330,0 1.320.0  169.1 179.7   3071.0   418.4   451.8 l40.69.             95.0 101.0   217,6   233.0   253.8   902.5
S.k-TaI.l TIfldICAL. ASSISTM(F                                                                  165.0 165.0   330.0   330.0   310.0 1,120.0  119.1 179,7   387,41  411.4   451.8  WU.$6                95.0 101.0   217.6   235.0   2533.8   902.3
P. CIYIL ktS
WFTIC FOR 8EO                               No          I    -    -    -    -      I    40   40.0           -            -             40.0   41.9      -                         -    45,9        75*g              -                -    75,9
Pr02C1 AlT 1A0N814  ((NITO                  Nto        I    -                      1    84   04.0                                      8  4.0   96.3    -                               6.3        344       -        .                .    54.1
NM  EFM ED                                  No          I    -                     354  54.0            -                            54.0   A1.9                                       all, -1     343               -                      34.8
KME AT TRAIltIK CENTER                      NO         I                           1         54   54.0  -                               4.0   62.9      -                        -     6.9         34.8                                     34.1
Wt-oalle  CIVIL VMS                                                                             232.10                               -   232.0  266.0-                               .  204.0         141.5              . .              -   149.3          9
C. WT4ICUIS I 103l30w
4 14 PICK - UP                                         5    -                     20  1A,6   83.0       -       -              3.0   264.0   83.2       -                    124.9   790.1         47.9               -            64,5   112.4
51kb-Total W242C2CS I EqI4hifIT                                                                  83.0      -                       3.0   164.0   65.2                                    moll01.9 20.  47.9     -        .             64.3   112.4
i. $13"I lCd C"I4MTT GRAZING
I. SUIT 016                              QUC              -       2    4    4    10   246        -          492.9   904,0   984.0 2,440,0        -          38. 4 3.279.4  ,3814.7 3.217,6             .     -   332.3   718.3   730.2 31830.1
kb-Total SEP03  FOR C59MTTTY GRTINS                                                                        -   492.0  9`14.0  #9`4,0 2.410.0         -     -   539.4 3,279.4 2,388.7 3.257.6                 -       331.1   711.11  7`10.2 1,110.1
Total IW&ST(VNT COSTS                                                                              4810.0 163.0   122.0 1.214,0 1,397,0 4,171,0  5120.  119.7  4176,9 1.697,1 1.95' 43.330.?            '212.4 101.0   543.1   953.8 l.091.5 2.994,3
I                                                i9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. 22 -! 222l .......  E~*i   ....22  or.i .  ..i...f nES.    9             ..i.i wES ..... .....1 ES settee  2...... .....2S.
it. lIOPITCOT
A* 171(1E 0313*I25 1 MIETNAAK                                                                    2.6   2.6      2.6      2.6     2.6    23.9    2.?   3.0       3.2      3.5     3.9    16.3           1.3   1.7      2,3     2.0      2.2     9.2
3, NILlIEG 113*AI0 I M24TtWCI                                                                         - 23      1.3      1.3     0.3      5.2       -   1.5     I.6      I,?      1.9     6.'            .   0.8      0,9     1.0      Ili     1.7
c. arno.uE OM04(1S  I M2UlTCMCI           24000TIAR       5    5    5    3    5    23   4.3   21.5  22.5    21.5    21.5    21.5   107.5   n.1  23.7    25.7    27.8    30.2   129,5                  1224  13.3    14.4    15.6    16.9    72.7
8. STAFF SMIElS I ALSOC1
smIK htos                               wmit          I    I    2    I    I       5  22.9   22,9  12.9    22.9    12.9    12.9    64.3   13.5  14.9    26.4    23.0    19.8    92.7                7,6   6.4      9.2    19.1    11.2    44.5
831901                                   Wm4(0        5    5    5    5    5    25   2.5   12.5  12.5    22.5    12.5    12.5    42.5   21.2  24.4    15.9    27.5    19.2    80.1                   7.4   3.1     I,,      9,11   18.1    45,0       C'
TTYPIITI                               MATTEA         2    2    2    2    2    10   3.7    7.4   7,4         7.4     7.4      7.4    37.0    7.8   6.3       9.4    10.3    22.4    47.4           4.      .       ,       53      64      U i        `
ltb-Total LIArf  "IflT   I MLUAIEI                                                              32.8  32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8   164.6   34.4  37.9    41.7    45.8    50.4   210.3               19,3  21.3    23.4    21.3    28. 3   II6.1
C. MUVUl       RA 11*18                                                                          3,3   3.5  607.0        8.0     0.0   434.0    3.7   4.0   771.2    II.?    12.3   #02.4              2,1   2.3   433.3      6.3      6.9    5.?
-  -   --   -------------..-.-                       .         .        .         .-----.------------.-.----
Total KV TX  WISTS                                                                                   60.4  62.7   445.2    64.2    64.2   919.7   83.0  70.0   343.3    90.1           ' 1.61,24.2        35.4  3P.3   473.8    50.6    51.4  614.5
glul                                                                                               30.4 226.7 1,s487.2 1,30.2 1,443.2 107?583.4 249.3 l1420.2 1.7llSt 2.054.0 6,4953                     327.7 140.3 1,02.6 1.004.5 I.154.0 3,649.9
ail .... .ii . In..n 199212ai:i titnsl..   i    a.             a: ..E ..  ,* mInIS  gi ..... itaik::Sn EM.   .-t ...int. n...a  RSaTi-   -ESa



961308. tLAM YSNI7t 81 LIWITOCQ  MULCT
Ntail.d Cost table
IthO '000!
Totaelo rclidirs Cwnti6nhn
9.JrILtO                                                 Iai Costs                                         Totals  Il-C3uaOIF1 Contznfoius                                                ('At '000      .
, ,,,, ,, ,,,,, ,,, , *-- Le j t *-- ----- ------ ........  ......                                -      ....... ....... ......... ..... .... . - _  .-.-.....                                             a.-     ...  , ,__ ,.,,_   
Iwit      31P5 3984 3917 399! 39   Total  Cost    3983              390.       31P7      3909      1909      Total       3983      lIt       1397      19K       391       Total             39tt5     198       1911      19183 9            ToltalI
3. 1'ASTPEMT COSTS
...............
4. VWECLES I (0JIrMMT
...I.................
454  Pick    tf L                                               -     I            1      3   16.6       16.6          -     16.6          -     11.6       49,         17.0         -      39.6         -      23.        36               9.6          -     1320                 12,9     33. 5
Su*-Total  HIICLES  I EC0IP3E8T                                                                              l6.6         -      16.6          -     16.6       49,8      13.0           -     3'.6          -     23.0       59. Q.                         -     3t.0          -     12.9      33.5
P. R96H  COIEIT FLOPS                                                                                    1,939.0 13:19.0 2-707.0 31'39.0 13139.0 10.313.0   .13 t6 2.137.4 3213.2 2-53'.2 2,770.9 212714.4                                 1,114.5  12400.1  118445  11426.t 015556.7 7P142.9
.  . .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  .  ..........         .  . .............................. ........... ............  -  . ........   .. . .   .. . .   .. . .   ........  __ _ ,   _, ,   _
Total 3W4SItP4   0S0ThS                                                                                      1.935,6 13,193.  2.72363 1393.0 10435.6  10.432,8   2,000.9  2.137.' 3-3291  2.533.2 2.793.  12,774.0                             1 124.1 3,200. 3M.8  535 1.4245 I.5U9.4  7.176,4
...2     ..... 83333    r282--.. mant ...32:8*82...   .... 28..2..223    .           2      .3.... am223 .82*3cam..                      28332.=t-3338   =
i3. KOrCElUT CoSTs
...............
A. Sk4ItS I 3WCOS
.. ....... ......... ,
R9AH  CREDIT OFFICER                     9MfAFY         I      3           2     2       9  12.9        12.4      12.9      235.     27.8       23n.      103.2         !.5    34.7      32.1      32.3       3?,7     131.9               7.,       8,4    13.4       20.3      22.3      7.9
....... ...... ......-....... .......-                                                                                                      -        .-........  .. . .. .. .......3....... ......................    _  _..  ....  -  ...  -  I
,k-Total  SAMIcO  I lAES                                                                                    12.9      12.1    57.         25.8      2$3.      1032.        13.5     34.9      32.9      36.1      34.7      136,9              71,       3,4    13.4        20.3      22.3      76.9        *-
T. YEI4CLE IC(1     TIO3     I  4I14TE7CE                                                                    4.3       4,3       8.'       8.6       8.6       34.4        4.4       4.7      10.3      11.1      12.1       42.6              2.5       2.1       5.9 5      .3       6.1      23.9        VI
C. (1ICEftrC       s                                              .      .     .     .                       2.3       2.3       .3        2.3       2.3       33.         2.4        2.6      2.9       3.1       3.4       14.4              13        15        1.6      13.        1.9         .13
....... ...... . ..... .... ....... ........ ...... ..... ....... ........ ........ ........ . ___....... ....... ..... ... .......  . .. ..                    
Total  1CtJT 'l COStS                                                                                            39.5    139.5    .54.7        36.7      34.7      14'.l       20.4         .!3    43.9      50.3      55.1      194.9             11.4      12.5      25.9      21.3      31.0    381.0
2,222 82*3888..... ...23282*3  822 2 2....... ..8.....  ...32                   33 .....  .......  3..         8 28..83 . 288. .........."..  323   8    *   3 2        338    2
Tot7l                                                                                                         395.31  1 3,9 .5 2.760.3 1755,7 1.972.3 150 .f3.    21021.2 2.159,7 3e34l.7 2.34?.  2289.4  12,961.9                               1.13535 1.213.3 1,1t1.35  1454.9  I 600.  7M13.4
-r.:::               zetsa: ::: am ..... ..... I .......  :a-:  ::: - r.: ::- wsa -----*z a.....  .: cc ...  ....     ....-                           mm~cam-                       macc
............ ............................................................................................................................................................................ ..... ......  . _.   _...   __..  ___ ______..  -  -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -  -- --  -    -- - - -    _-                 ___________     
ttt   14. 3435   10L2
9-



WA2IW. LAN  rMJAS T MD LIVESII           P0JECV
PflECI CCIRIINAI00 tMIl
ktriled Cr,'. Table
1rLILA 'O0)
Totols lncludid Cmtlnsenclit
hintit.                                  list Cosit                   T@tels Includinj Cartinncheis                     (U5$  0001
tbhit    1295 2966 197 2M   919 Total  Cost  1985  24  213,  19   2?  IOta!    2915  1284  1397  19   Im    Total    IMns  1937  2                      1 M   lotal
:aa:aaan::  art   ss -s Caen 221:5*  :*: tafl  tars  a::t a::g$  attn  sw    t Ela  5*1 w::  :S *1'   nsa: W nU:w at::sal   *5*:. 8:*:-:  an:  mama guS. aS S._  Saa *saga
1. l'ISTSE)TT COSTS
..    ... . . . . .
A. TrcN*rCk 41151SI6KE
.... ..... ... .....
1. EAPATAATE CWIStLMZTS
... ....... ....... .....
PROJ!CT CO9DII0T                                     I    1    I    I    I    5   165  145.0 165,0 165.0 165.0 165.0  825.0  269.1 179.7 193.7 209.2 225.    977m7   95.0  91.20 203.3 227.5 226.9 5n4.3
Sb-Totil EPAIPIATE COOSATAKTi                                                              165.0 265.0 145.0 145.0 245.0  325.0  149.2 17V.7 193.7 2017 225-.9   97.7   95.0 101.0 O1t- 317.5 124.9 549.3
ShdTotal TCCW2I'lL *SSIST32 KE                                                                 145.0 165.0 1611.0 23.4 145.0  525-0  169.1 179.7 193.7 209.2 225.9  977.7   95.0202.0 208.1  117.5 126.9 549.1
P. KHIUCLES  EIIJ2Ptf11
414 0                                        NV         I    -    -    -           2  16.6  14.4             -       -  26.6   33.2   17.0    -      -     -  23.0   40.0    9,       - -          -  12.9  225
SALWA CAD                                               2    -    -    -    2      4  23.9  2i7--                  -  27.8    55.6   28.5      -     -     -  38.5    47.0  12.0       -     -     -  212.  37.7
OFICE COUlF Nt                               I                2   -    -    -    4   6.9   70.7  6M9         -     -     -    27.t  2121   7.4       -     -     -    28.8  21.9   4.2       -     -     -  24S2
s1l4otal MI4MCSI  I EJItMNI0                                                                    65.     69      -     -  44.4   224.4    6.3   716      -     -   2.5  1235.3  37.6   4.2       -     -  345  763 
_. .   ..___.__.    ....._  ..______   
Total IESTMMT C4STS                                                                               230.1 171-9 15.0 145.0 209.4   9412.  234.0 267.3 193.7 209.2 217.4 12113-5  132.6 205.2 203.8 117.5 162-5  25.6 
3:8mg Zaw::  sara -nag sss s*as ::: ngma    Ywa rssags wtsI an sa    asss:In   =as: as   *SS nt?
II. RECLMKMT cOSTS
A. s5Arr SMiIs ml wiGES
PM ES111S1M                            51*ff YEAR     I    I    I    I    I    5  12,9  12.9  12.9  12.9  12.9  12.9   64.5   13.5  14.9  24  18.0  19.3   t2J7   7,6   1.4   9.2  20.2  11.1  445
PIUSC352W                               STAF YETI      I    I    I    I    1    5  12.9   12.9  12.9  12.9  12.9  12.9   64.5   13.5  14.9  26-4  28.0  29.3          2.7    7.4   34   9.2  10.1  11.1   45
TTPISTS                                S1*f TIM4       2    2    2    2    2    10   3.7    7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4    37.0    7.3   3.5   94  10.3  11.4   47.4    4.4   4.3   5.3   5.3   4.4  2.,4
RIVE                                    STFF TEAi      3    3    3    3    3    25   2.5    7.5   7.5   7.5   7-5   7,5    37.5    7.9   0.7   9.5  10.5  11.5   43.1    4.4   4.9   5.4   5.9   4.5  27.
EI42CLE[ rAIION I ?A2NCIMGr 5                 YEA      -    -    -    -    -      -         1224  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4    62.0  12.3  13.7  14.6  26.0  17,4   74.7    7.2   7.7   3.3  9.0   9.3  42n.
WYtiC  (MSES                            11    TISMNF E -  -    -    --R-                     23   2.3   2.3   2.    2.3   21.    2.4   2.6   2.9  131   3.4    14.4    1.3   1.5  2.4   1.1   2.9  31.
Se-Total STY? SlAMIES MAD MKES                                                                 55.4  55.4  55,4  55.4  55.4   277.0  57.9  43.3  49.4  7.   33.4  350.0   32.5  35.4  39.0  42.7  46.3 296.4
total KIKEllI COSTS                                                                                55.4 55.4  55,4  55,4  55.4   277.0   57.9  63.3   9.4  76.0  03.4  350.0  32.5  35.4  39.9  4.7  46.3 194,6
al.  Wss, asansa wants gag's-  *xass s-- agasogs t mamas 5fl55 Zl m a:m                           asn  S  *12
TotR                                                                                               235.5 227.3 220.4 220.4 244.13 1211.4  293.9 250.1 243. 25.2 37. 1443.  265.2 1403 147.3 240.2 203.3 n2.2
nags'  .llaa massME m   Rusamas assgas:  SAINg naa stags anu  ann s"        aas goal        as  OEnS          maw *M
M
April 30. I 2150130



TATSIIUI
ATIOWN  LAD  WMECENT WO LIWESIOC  POECT
LIVESTO    PRICING AND TAX P%LICY STUDIES
etilled Cost Table
(PtA  1001
Totals Irnludlid Contirdelnn
O1u nlkh                              PDst Costs                Totals Includird Contilrdneles              (lI 'O00)
-- ~------t-----------------  Unit  ------          -----------------         -  -_                        . --_-_                         _
tnit    IM35 196 1?97 1IM  1M   Total  Cost 115 ISU   197 ION  2999 Total  IM95 I116  19?7 1918 1m   Total  195 191   1987 11  IM   Totl
:::    ::=: 2*: 2::: 3333 :8:2 C::::  :133  2338 33Sw  3233 2333 3382 33133   ESS *333. nEw 3SD *   3223 333   :z2 sasn_  an,a nsa an  ur-
1. I;esntTIr COSTS
.   .......    .
A. TECI(ICL ASSISTACE
1. EXPATRIATE CO'ItLTANTS
FINACIAL ANALYST I TAXATIWl StCIAIST            AMETMAR      -    I    -    -    -      1   165      - 165.0    -    -    - 165.0       - 179t7    -    -    - 379,7        - 1010.    -    -    - 101.0
DIEEF WETIIf  SPECIALIST                        MYEAR        -    I    -    -    -      1   165      - 165.0    -    -    - l56.0       - 179.7    -    -    - I.7        - 101.0    -    -    - 101t0
Sut-Total EXATRIATE CONNULTANT                                                                          - 730.0    -    -    - 330.0        - 159.5    -    -    - 359.$       - 202.0    -    -    - 202.0
Su-Totol TECWICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                - 330.0    -    -    -330.0        -35,5         -       - 359.5      - 202,0    -    -    - 202.0
----------    --------    ----    -----.
Total IWJSTMIl COSTS                                                                                             310.0    -- 0,0                  - 359.5    -    -    -359.5        - 202.0    -    -    -202.0
.. 33  S3ass 3ES3  3S3 ass 3 38 22     :31w 2:2:: :S:: 3AS3  Ease 33g1  3a822 23 22133  V-:ss :322 12=re
Total                                                                                                           - 330.0    -    -    - 330.0       - 359.5    -    -    - 339.5       - 202.0    -    -    - 202.0
WEE: 33383 3333 3*23 3333 33333  t333  R2E 3333 ESEU 2333 3E32   Easels 333  3333           ::: tr:=
....   .................  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    -   -- --    -- - - - -- - - - -   -  --  -_ -  -- - -- - -- -   ---
April 30. 191   10131
a-



- 48 -
Table T-2(a)
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
RANCH DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT COSTS (PULA '00)
Items                       Quantity   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   TOTAL
Borehole
Borehole                       1          19.6                        19.6
Engine and pump                1 set       5.0                         5.0
Pipes                         1 set        2.4                         2.4
Base pump house               1            1.3                         1.3
Sub-total                                  28.3                        28.3
Other water facilities
Reservoir                      1           2.5                         2.5
Water reticulation
Sub-total                                   2.5                         2.5
Firebreaks and fences
Firebreaks                    32 km       11.9                        11.9
Fences (external)             32 km       30.7                        30.7
Fences (internal)             28 km        -         7.6      7.6    15.2
Sub-total                                  42.6       7.6      7.6    57.8
Buildings
Manager's home                 1           3.0                         3.0
Storage                       1                      2.4               2.4
Handling yard                 1            1.8                         1.8
Spray race 1/                 1            0.6                        0.6
Sub-total                                   5.4       2.4               7.8
Other
Tools                                      -         0.6               0.6
Total Investment Cost                          78.8      10.6      7.6    97.0
*ranch development                         50.5       7.6      7.6    68.7
*ranch development with borehole           78.8      10.6      7.6    97.0
1/ P1800. But only 1/3 of ranches would have a race.



- 49 -
Table T-2(b)
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Unit Prices of Investment Items, Economic Life and Their Maintenance
and Operating Costs
Maintenance and/or
Unit Economic Life      Unit Prices    2pmati% Costs
(Yers)    PuUla1U667unit)   wooo/0year)
Firebreaks and Fences
Firebreaks                           km        50                  0.04        0.017
Fences for ranches : external        km        50                  0.9         0.07 1/
Fences for ranches : internal        km        50                  0.5         0.07 Tl
Fences for coamuinity grazing areas  km        50                  0.5         0.07 T/
Buildings
Manager's house                     Unit       30                  3.0         0.07 1/
Storage                                        15                  1.8           -
Handling yard                        -         10                  2.4         0.23
Spray race                           -         10                  1.8         0.18
Dipping facilities                             15                  5.4         0.54
Water Facilities 2/
Borehole                                       30                 19.6         4.39
Engine and pump                                 8                  5.0          -   3/
Pipes                                           5                  2.4          -   /
Base pump house                                 5                  1.3          -
Reservoir                                      20                  2.5         0.12
Tools                                     Set       10                  0.6          -
1/ Starting in Year 4.
2/ On ranches.
3/ Maintenance costs are included in the borehole operating cost.



W1SWAMA
NATION?AL. tAND IW4AGDE)ENT AND ,IVESTC,CX PROjECT
Technical Coefficients for a Representative Ranch
Pard Com&os io n                                           --wimouT FRwJrCr
95V- 1 Mru          2           1.    2     6      7    6      9    10    II    12    13    14    Is    36    37    16    19    20    21    22   23-20
54l1                          9           '    a         a     a     a         8     a     a     a         a     as       a      a     a     I     a      a     a     I     I        a
$reeding Cowb               I1         36 13  19y  g ) 1993   193  192   191   1903  191  193   194   195  195  195  195   196   196   191  196   391   I"9  200                   200
Calves wvaned                98         92    96   100   102   l00   100   100   100   100   100   102   102   102   102   102   J02   102  102  104   104  104   104              104
setters 1-2 yr4r.            42         44    42   43    42    46    45   42    41   4.5   45   45   45   46    46    46    46    46    46    46    46   47    47                   47
"     2-3   1'            42         41   41   36   3'    Al1  42    42   4s    42    42   41   41   42    42    42    42    42   42    43   43   43   43                        43
*     3-4   to            39         39    39    37    35    36    36    16    36    35    38    38    IS    36    39    39    39    39    39    39    39    39    39            39
lales 1-2 years              '.2        44    42   A)   45    46   'iS   42    45   45   45   4  45 A              46    46    46    46    46    46    46    46   47    Al          47
2-3   ..41                       4l   39    37    ;8    40    41    41   40    40    40    40    40    41    41   41    41    41   41   41   43   42    42                   42
- 3.1.                   39         39    39    37    32    1b    38    36    38    38    38    38    36    38    36    39    39    39    39    39    39    39    39            39
"4-2"                    37         37317  37  35  13334  363636 36   36 36323636   36 363436 36 36                                                               6  31   31
*  1-I"              32~~)    35  14  3523433311  3233 )343414 34 3433 33 343414 3434434    34
over 6 years           la         lb    16   1l.   lb    16    12    34    32    16    16    16    36    16    16    16    16    16    36    16    16    16    16             36
lulls                          q          7     d     7      7     6     7     7      2     6     6     6     6      7     6     6      6     6     6     Al    6      6     6        6
Brandin& Cows               Il          III18    190   376   162   156   365  316   112  lIb   156   141.  154   362   124   149   142   149   155   155  148   149  153           154
V&lva. w.eafied               9d        '92   96    96   330   116   312   126   126i   94   116   112  104   112   120   112   110   106  306   112  114   110  310               112
WiiCeCI I-i yea,b            45          44    42   43   42    20    24    12    29    59    44    25    54    49    54    57    54    52    51   52    54    54    52               53
"  2-3    "42                     41   41   36    40    42    47    S1    49    -         -     -     -      -     -     -                                    -  -     -
.4  -4    '39                     39    39    36    36    36    -      -     -      -           -     -      -           -                                          - 
PlaIce 1-2 ye.iie             42         44    42   43   45    50    54    52    59    29    44    52    54    49   24    57    54    52    51   52    54    54    52                53
N    2-3   11              42         41    39    36    40    41   45    20    46    24    22    42    S1    20    41    51    54    51   49   46    49    SI    St               49
"3-'.                    39    3939 37 363339 43 4646 225443l50 49 454952 494 47 43239  29
"4-2"                    37    37 3737 32 3436 3841 46 45  14732234 2822  39 1530   5 --                                                                                                  U
-6'                     32         3214 323252331921 2222 21   1731510   5    3--- 
over 6years           Is          36    36    13    30      7     2   -      -     -      -     -     -     -         -  -- 
PUJRCHIASES Mg1 TUE hEEDING 31150
Witb and Without Project   :   Ni
technical
C.Mifi1clents                                                                                          VITIUT PraoJEC
Dcvelp.enl  3     2      3     4     2     6      7    6      9    10    11   12    13    34    35    16   31    is    19   20    21    22           23)-30
Calvesuwesned        Z        24         20    23    52    5i    52    52    52    53    52    52    53    53    53    53    53    53    53   53    53    53   53    53              13
Hard smrtaitiy    I           7          7     7      7     7     7     7      7     7     7     7      7     7     7     7      I     I     I     1      7     1     7     1        I
gull/cow ratio    t            4          4     4     4      4     4     4     4      4     4     4     A      4     A     A     4      4     4     4     A     4      4     4        A
Coy Inabard    2    as    30Q31  31 31   33 30  03 30    3 30   3030203030230230202023030230   20
culttng *ulso        I        33         13    13    32    32    32    12    32    32    12    32    32    12    32    12    12    12   132   12    12    12    32    1i             la
OlIt.sksrate         I         7          7     7      7     7     7     7      7     7     7     7      7     7        7  I      I     I     I     1      7     7     7     7        I
Total Mo0. AnImals         626        620  622  625  626  629  630  633   632  633  635  637  639  640  642  643  645  647  649  630  652  6S4  626                               659      '4
TotalAnima   limI.  403      399  400  399  397  397  396   394  34  396   394   36  395  395  394   394   394   394   NA9  394  393  39339                             33
stocking rate IaIAU           36         16    36    36    16    16    36    36    16    16    J6    36    16    16    36    16    36    16    16    16    36    16    36            16 
WI1TH  MROJECT
Calvesweaned   2    54                   SSSt  26 676156244 65 6067   .T"''U" U'    75 76701727174 74  72   13  .
Uardwmarlaity   I              1           1     4     6     6     6      5     3     4     4      4     4     4     4      4     4     4      4     4     4     4     A      4       4      n
sull/cow ratio    2            4          4      4     4     4     4      4     4     4     4      4     4     4     4      4     4     4     4      to    4     A    4      4        4
Cows inberd   I    as    2931329 2726 31321222929 2129 3132029 29 3033323133 33   34
Culli3alsales        2        13         135   23    21    24    23   22    21    27    32    32    36    37    33    34    34    34    35    34    33    35   34    34              34
Olftake rate         I         I           6  12 12   14 133212   3s                  4    Is    Is   31    Is    17    37    Is    11    is    is    1s    19    to    it           19
Total No. AnIvAls          626        620  622  1'04  602  602  603   637  5418  542   538  532               2   134  520  5o0944  489  444  484  476  444  443    4657
Total Asuau   Usits        403        403  411  410  432  4IS  423  439  421  404  401   394.                     394   369  210  370  310  369  M6A   360   352  350             344
llto""# raeIahe/Al    16                 56361  If  36  36  1  6361616111 1I                                          6 14517  31  3117                         Il 1   is5 1          9 o t



BMSA
HUTICL LAW   W         AMD LM= Ha=
laommrnt Cost of the Ranch
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    B    9   10   11   12   13   14  1U   16   17   18   19   2D   21   22   23   24   25-30
Wim FR1
bttl ave  1/               4.8  4,6  4.8  4.4  4.4  4.  4.4  4.7  4.3  4.1  4.1  4.1  4.1  3.9  3.9  3.9  3,7  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.4
1Hintowwr  c.si 2          0.6  1.2  1,2  3,5  4.4  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5             5,5 5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5  5.5
Lmsratg ant of boetvi de    4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4
Sularii (of the H )        1.8  1.8  1.9  1.9  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2,0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0
1vm                        2.7  2.7  2.7  227 2.7            2.7   2.7 272727  2,7  2.7  27  2,7  2.7  2.7  27  2,7  27  2,7  2.7 2.7  2,7  2.7
Isd Pt                    0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0,3  0.3  0,3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0,3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3
&b-toe             14.5 15. r 13:1 11 7 18.2 19.3 19.3 19-.6 19.2 19.0  19.0  1.0.    19.0  -1i F.  18.9 18 .7 ;1    1Ni;i; W6  6 W.i   8 7.5  8.i5 1X8.
Csttle lpt ,7              2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2,3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2,3  2.3  2.3  2,3  2,3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2,3  2.3  2.3
PAFdw. of Iter 5/          9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9,5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9.5  9,5  9,5  9.5  9,5  9.5  9.5  0.5  9.5  9.5
law                        2.7  2.7  2.7  2,7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2    2,7  2.7  2.7  2,7  2,7  2.7  2.7  2,7  2.7  2.7
al____           T4 -5 'W. 15:  M:  4113  1 :3 14.5  14.5 14.5 14.  5    14.5 14.  14.5 14.5 1143 ;935 T9   11   14.5  14.5  1.5  1  714:  14.5
mNL
3 ili N;Zopmem              -   0.5  0.8  2.7  3.7  4.8  4.8  5.1  4.7  4.5  4,5  4.5  4.5  4.4  4.4  4.4  4,3  4.2  4,2  4.2  4.2  4.1  4.1  4.1  3.9
(hloUi  or vydiae)
1/  1 tit  adt an a emz   P 7.4 and P 4.3 per hund with wd withmt pcoject.
Of tY          I coat'
l/   tlt.1 at P 4.440 per yer
At P 0.04/h for a  h   of 6,40D b.
tti ntel P 7,700 yew eqivul*zt to thi 0.M ard capital rewvezy d theim inr at coat c the boreml plus 10 mrgLn to Lh a,.
_
I-



Table T-2(e)
NM  LAN M'US            AND LrWW P=ec
Rmn Proiction With aid Withtt ProJect
by Meat Grad
Year                          1    2      3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   2)   21   22   23   24   25-30
W1hm PiD=
Grnde 2                       3.2  3.1   2.6  2.5   2.6  2.0   1,9  1.8   1.6  1.6  1.6   1.3   1.3  1.3   1.3  0.9   0.9  0.9  0.9  0.6  0.6  0.3   0.3  0.3   -
Grmde 3                       6.7   6.3  6.3  7.0  6.4  6.2  6.4  6.0   5.9  5.5  5.5  5.6  5.3  5.2  4.9   4.9  4.9  4.6  4.2  4.6  4.3   4.6  4.0   4,0  4.0
Grade 4                      0.7   0.7   1.2  1.3  1.5   1.8  1.9  2,3  2,5  2,7  2.8  3.1  3.4  3.4  3.6  3.9  3.9  4.4  4.5  4.3  4.6   4.6  5.2   5.4  5.9
Total1                       10.6  10.1  10.1  10.8  10.5  10.0  10.2  10.1  10.0  9.8  9.9  10.0  10,0  9.9  9.8  9.7  9.7  9.9  9.6  9.5   9.5   9.5  9.5  9.7  9.9
wrm ecr 
9!r x                        -      -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -            -    -      -    -    -       -    -    -    -    -    -         0.5   1.1  1.5  2,0  2.6
Grade I                      -      -     3.8   3.8  4.5  4.6  4.6   4.8  5.4   5.2  5.1  5.1  5.8  11.0  9.6  10,2  12.1  13.5  14.8  15.5  16.7  16.3  16.1  15.6  14.8
Gmade 2                       3.2   2.1  4.8   6.1  8.7   8.4  9.3  14.9  14.7  10.4  12.2  13.0  13.3  11.0  11.2   9.5  7.0  6.3  6.0   5.5   4.4  3.2   3.1  3.5  3.7
Grade 3                       6.7   6.9  8.6   7.3  6.7  6.4   5.3  8.0   6.9  6.7  7.2  5.0   5.3  6.8  6.3  6.7   4.9  4.5  4.8   5.3   4.5  4.0   3.8   4.5  4.7
Grade 4                      0.7  0.9   0.4  0.5  0.4   -    -         -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                         -    -    -    -
Total*                       10.6  9.9  17.6  17.7  20.3  19.4  19.2  27.7  26.9  22.3  25.5  23.1  24.4  28.8  26.1  26.4  24.0  24.3  25.6  26.3  26.1  24.6  24.5  25.6  25.8
94#r                            -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -    -    -    0.5   1.1   1.5  2.0  2.6
Grade 1                      -    -      3.8  3.8  4.5  4.6  4.6  4.8  5.4  5.2  5.1  5.1  5.8  11.0  9.6  10.2  12,1  13.5  14,8  15,5  16.7  16.3  16.1  15.6  14.8
Grade 2                      -    (1.0)  2.2  3.6  6.1   6.4   7.4  13.1  13.1  9.8  10,6  11.7  12.0  9.7  9.9   8.6  6.1  5.4  5.1  4.9   3.8   2.9  2.8  3.2  3.7
Grde 3                       -     0.6   2.3  0.3  0.3  0.2  (1.1)  2.0  0.9   1.2  1.7  (0.6) -           1.6  1.4   1.8  -    (0.1) 0.6   0,7  0.2  (0.6) (0,2) 0.5  0.7
Gnrs  4                      -     0.2  (0.8) (0.8) (1.1) (1.8) (1.9) (2.3) (2.5) (2.7) (2.8) (3.1) (3.4) (3.4) (3.6) (3.9) (3.9) (4.4) (4.5) (4.3) (4.6) (4.6) (5.2) (5.4) (5.9)
Total                        -      (.2)  7.5  6.9  9.8  9.4   9.0  17.6  16.9  14.7  14.6  13.1  14.4  18.9  17.3  16.7  14.3  14.4  16.0  16.8  16.6  15.1  15.0  15.9  15.9
* Projectioi. do not show the possible icpld: of futuze drughts.
-.
'S3



Tale T-2ff)
?ht.icuial L~16 Ht a LIwetock Project
Cih Flie*a(Rminh tIdel)
(ALla '00)
Yl   Y2   Y3   Y4   Y5   Y6   Y7   Y8   Y9   Y10  Yll  Y12  Y13  Y14  Y15  Y16  Y17  Y18  Y19  Y20  Y21  Y22  Y23  Y24-30
Withut Project
Cash Infkow
Value of Producticn 1/     16.1  16.0  15.6  17.5  17.3  17.0  17.1  16.9  16.8  16.3  16.3  16.4  16.4  16.3  16.1  15.7  15.7  15.4  15.4  15,2  15.1  15,0  15,0   15.0
ch  Oitflow
Operatirg Coet 2/          14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14,5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.6  14.6  14.6  14,6  14.6   14.6
Net bxau                  1.6   1.5  1.1   3.0  2.8   2.5   2.6  2.4  2.3   1.8   1,8  1,9   1,9  1.8   1.6  1.2   1.2   1.2  0.8 ( 0.6)( 0.5)( 0.4)( 0.4)  ( 0.4)
With NMoect
Cash Inflow
Value of Prauctiwn I/      15.5  14.9  30.4  31.5  35.9  35.6  35.6  50.5  49,5  43.8  44.3  39.1  45.5  54.2  51.7  49.8  45.8  46.1  49.3  50.7  50.7 41.1  48.3   50.0
Credit/cAn Comtrihutin 3/ 78.8  10.7  7.6
Cih 0Xitf l1
Iztwebt/ReplaAnt 4/ 78.8  10.6  7.6                                         5.0         8.1                           3.8   6.9                           8.1
Operating Cost 2/          14.5  15.0  15.3  17.2  18.2  19.3  19.3  19.6  19.2  19.0  19.0  19.0  19.0  18.9  18,9  18,0  18.2  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18,5  18.5   18.4
Debt Servic 5r                                           10.2  9.2   8.5  7.7  7.0   7,0  7.0   7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0   7.0
Net Incor                 i,C0   -    5-xi13,3  17.7  6.1   7.1  22.4  17.6  17.8  10.2  13.1  18.5  2B.4  2.8  2)1.1  13.2  27.5  3.7  32X1  32.1  21.5  29.8    31.6
Net Irental  eneflt          -     -    14.0  10.3  14.9  3.6  4.5 2M.0  15.3  16.0  8,4  11,2  17.6  25.6  2.2  18.9  12.0  26.3  29.9  31.5  31.6  21.1  29.4    31.2
1/ Value of prdxuctlon ocqited fromu tmeg  of leat gism  (Table T-2(d)) at faregate prics (Table T-2(h).
2/ Operatirg cost -ee Table T-2(c).
'/  Cmedit - 1009 ranch itmatu wt ot  (Table T-2(a)) prvided thraoh cdit to all project mnchl, ex?ptlnW
pilot syndicate rxho whoere 902 of Imwtznt oste provided b  credit aid bslm  thro  am labor contributicm.
Equity - all  -rcial rar  provide an equipped borehole at tWir ct.  Pilot ayfnicate ranhes receive subsidy
for e4iipped bothole aost.
4/  Repl  nt cots - a per sd*uAla in Table T-2(b).
5/ Debt Service - Lm  at 17S interuet with 5 year period and therefter repaents at qual wLial instafltmn  for
12 yearns. D8  pgce period, irtenut acczued  n dram dosn pr,incipal smU  be anially captaltize. Laen
yWitmU figures ae ajustaed to reflect an wal iLnflation tao  of 102.
'-



- 54 -
Table T-2(g)
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1985 and Projected 1990 Average Farm-gate Prices of Carcass Meat by Grade
Grade                               Super         1       2         3       4
(.-                Pula/ton carcass ............)
Average Prices at Lobatse abattoir 1/    2,172      2,007    1,842    1,676    1,473
Transport cost of animals to the
abattoir 2/                                 138       144      150      156      162
Financial prices (1985)                   2,034     1,863    1,692    1,520    1,311
Projected 1990 average prices 3/         2,281      2,031    1,867    1,702    1,495
I/ On the basis of 1983 number of animals slaughtered in the year in each period,
i.e. (January/March 30%; April-July 42%, August 10% and September-December 18%.
2/ Estimated at about P65/head. On the basis of the dressing percentage per grade
from 16Z for Super to 48% for grade 4, the transport cost per ton of carcass would
vary accordingly from P138 to P102.
3/ Estimated with an increase of 2.2% per annum consistent with World Bank beef price
projections.
Farmgate prices are the aggregate mix of export prices received from sales to EEC, South
Africa, Mozambique, Reunion and other markets. Based on sales over the 1981-1983 period,
the individual market share of export sales was respectively EEC 50%, South Africa 37%,
other African 13%.



- 55 -
Table T-3
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Export Beef Sales
Disposal of Beef Carcasses (numbers)
1982              1983
De-boned                   223,298           223,779
Carcase Sales               11,860             7,066
Condemned                    1,977             3,055
Total:                237,135           233,900
Sales of Boneless Beef (tons)
1982   % of Total    1983    X of Total
Destination:
South Africa                9,634       37         9,797        32
Mozambique                   1,967        7        1,153         4
Other African Markets        1,762        7        1,851         7
United Kingdom              10,149      39        11,567        38
Other EEC Markets            1,612       7         4,502        15
Reunion                      1,086       3         1,572         4
Other Markets                   60       -            30         -
Total:       26,270     100        30,473       100
=                        =    =
Source: Botswana Meat Commission Annual Report, 1983



- 56 -
Table T-4
BOTSWANA
NATIONAT,. LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements a/
IBRD                                    Quarterly        Cumulative
Fiscal Year       Quarter Ending         Disbursements    Disbursements
(US$ '000)       (US$ '000)
1985/86        December 31,  1985             100                100
March 31,      1986           300                 400
June 30,       1986           400                800
1986/87        September 30, 1986             500              1,300
December 31,  1986            600              1,900
Marcrh 31,     1987           600              2,500
June 30,       1987           700              3,200
1987/88        September 30, 1987             700              3,900
December 31,  1987            700              4,600
March 31,      1988           800              5,400
June 30,       1988           800              6,200
1988/89        September 30, 1988             700              6,900
December 31,  1988            600              7,500
March 31,      1989           600              8,100
June 30,       1989           600              8,700
1989/90        September 30, 1989             600              9,300
December 31,  1989            600              9,900
March 31,      1990           400             10,300
June 30,       1990           200             10,500
1990/91        September 30, 1990             200             10,700
a/  This schedule assumes that the credit would become effective in October
1985 and close September 1991.



- 57 -
Table T-5
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Key Indicators
Base Year
Unit 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90
Ranch Development
Commercial Ranches             No       26      26       26      26      26
Pilot Scheme Ranches           No        -       -        8       -       -
Extension
Community Grazing Areas        No        -       -        1       2       2
Completed Construction
Houses - DPUs                  No       10       8       -        -       -
- Land Boards           No       3        -      13
- Ranch Extension       No       2        -       -       -        -
Offices - Land Boards          No        6       5        5       5       5
- Range Extension      No       2       -        -       -        -
Boreholes - Trek Routes        No        8       8
- Holding Ground    No        1       -
Fencing - Trek Routes          Km       81      81
- Holding Ground       Km      14        -



-58-
Table T-6
BOTSWAN& 
National Land Management and Livestock Project
hational Development Bank (Cash Flow Projection)
(Pula 1000)
Y1    Y2    Y3    Y4    15    Y6    17    Y8    Y9    Y10   Y11   Y12
Inflow
- Loan/Grant from Govt.    1919  1919  2707  1919  1919
- Farmer Loan Repay1/       -      -     -     -     -     759  1407  2191  2664  3070  3070  3070
- Grant to NDB from Govt.2/  36    19    53    37    71
Sub-Total              1955  1938  2760  1956  1990   759  1407  2191  2664  3070  3070  3D70
Outflow
- Loan/Grant to Farmers    1919  1919  2707  1919  1919
- Repaymnt to Govt.3/       -      -     -     -     -     -    1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833
- Incr.Cost of Agric.
Credit Div.               36    19    53    37    71    53    71    53    71    53    71    53
Sub-Total              1955  1938  2760  1956  1990    53  1904  1886  1904  1886  1904  1886
Annual Surplus Deficit        -     -     -     -     -      706  (497)  305   760  1184  1160  1184
Y13    Y14  Y15   Y16   Y17   Y18  119   Y20   Y21  Y22   Y23   Y24   Y25
inflow
- Farmer Loan Repayments   3070  3070  3070  3070  3070  2664  2191  1407   579   -       -     -      -
Outflow
- Govt. Repayments and Incr.
Cost of Credit Div.     1904  1886  1904  1886  1904  1886  1904  1886  1904  1886  1904  1886  1904
Annual Surplus/Decifit       1166  1184  1166  1184  1166   778   287  (479)(1325)(1886)(1904)(1886)(1904)
I/ Five year grace period on interest and principal with 17% interest capitalised annually on the
principal sum drawn down, thereafter repayment in 12 equal annual installments. Farmer repayments
to NDB assumes a 90% recovery rate.
2/ See Table T-1(j).
3/ Six year grace period on interest and principal with 10% interest capitalised annually on the
principal sum drawn down, thereafter repayment In 20 equal annual installments.



Tdl T-7
I    LAWO  aWI AND LIX LT
Farde 7 . PMl for kef
-2q84----- -.--19--I9b - -1q66--   -2-- -1'S--- -im--1 - -1990-
f.eleet  Cb    lirt2/ hel   g*rc ei2t  kelf  (e .         t2    flag W      WIn l2/    esf  W m  lt2  IJ   Wm  lit2/t  hit                    2
fef  G=m             Ni  Wre    1C           lft   Vim lf    0d  ftm it             af  ftr            W-    %d   mre_                       it
PM  prita  C       1/                 3,'02         -       4,455        -       5,3R         -       5,282         -      4,995         -       4,473        _       4,891 
Trwwpt       irdlizu                    20          -         W2         -         20         -         2W _0      -         240         -        210         -20
FM  Ptite FM on ht1l Idtm             3,202     1,857       4,215    2,411       5,147    2,977       4,947    2,f6l       4,755     2,75D      4,635    2,48l       4,651     2,690
SlUu it g Ofst 1. VYba of
fll-txh25 40                                     25         A8        30         48        30          48       3)          48        3D         48        3D         As        30
EEort PMty Pgic a Attotr              3,162     1,R32       4,167    2,101       5.99    2,947        4,M9      2,131      4,707     2,72       4,587    2,651        4,603    2,F*)
TSmur  frw Pnope to Abhetoir            225       13D         270      156         270       156        270       156        2M        If         27n       156         270       156
Am.o Zot e Fa?ate Prim               2,937     1,702       3,897    2,245       4,8       2,791      4,629    2,675       4,437    2,564       4,317    2,49         4,333    2,%A
_   . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~I'
I1 WbrlA hirmie ro1ietteno   eptM  tr1 am  bmelm  tmf.I
1ne an -ver   ytet of ML
0r



00
F4
.0
m       Gal         lea    IOU     mg     1e   IM       ml   ilt   6051   a          UJ   *lLt   t 5a    ill   PtU    111 1   tt   fill   WU     O6a   9U1-  OWl-  1101,1g- Kml*   UIiM   63 WVL               I VLil
w            m      o"     m    on      w        @ "             e"       m      m      o"       in     i    wi         >w in       lv i        us            au      tuz c   wtmi   Kul    Im  wiapu 7fsn
o       at    0        m     m      o     CD    rn      m      r      m      m tta         m      m      m m   t       t m              tt    000   1161   11K t ill ml    til  l Sal ul                     IIUAI iNi
it     1t    IT    1t    it  t1    it    to    It    to    tt    It    to    It    it    It    It    10    to    It    It    it    at    oill    1i    III  t6l                                          1lF if
a       a      a      a      a     a t           a     t              a      co     a ts  t             a      co    co    ai t            a      In    Ilit  u0          iK   l      1               111m1n11=   o 1
0       0      it    0       i     0      0             0      0      0      0      t 0   0       t     0      At      ,    a       0       1    0       cc     a     a       tt   U                     wtSA      ICK)
on0    Sal   am    "M    Mu                UK    UKt   fU    "f   Ma1  fiff   LIl an    "aU   au4   mgf  61f   Lu    gill   OUt al 616    1 6 0   0                          -a              cuimi  w11j1M   'Wiun
lot   "a     VW     gSt  aUm   am     Ni    Ila   1Uw    ca   Un  zm     am    LU   a16    9W                 Ilt      tlil St   I       oil   LU    6-  -        1a nam
9111631 'NW6U1
eswtlto fig        utt    Om     f  U 9    UK        mg     IOtStU au     NG     Om   Ml nt    mt   t    fUU    S lX    UUd cut        t 9   1   UUi   "   6 ttm        tYi    -116    - 
tIf-IlK  Clii   me   me   LW 90                  we    cm    600    1W    001   UWI   31   LLI1 WI   561   1661   CM                  1   ll    61   631   1361   1   931   UI 6U
W  201*1  inU wiUn
1~irout nosufl are ziiiiim:x   inn 0 1iiin



- 61 -
Table T-9
BOTSiA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS
INCREMENTAL BEEF FROM TREK ROUTE COMPONENT
1985    1986    1997    1998    1989 1990-2014
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
TREK EEF                              403      500      480     459      447       446
SUBTOTAL INCREMENTAL BENEFITS         403      500      480     459      447       446
INCREMENTAL COSTS
TREK ROUTE                            873      697      127    127       175      241
SUBTOTAL INCRENTAL COSTS              873      697      127     127      175       241
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS
TOTAL INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS       -470    -197      353      332      272       205
February 15, 1985 15:25



o 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta                                             OH "a    Om            tJg for   tite   MIN    ctJ fV@ZaA wt "tl   =I  Ivc   sl-  ma                  titC la VMOl  13II:1II *weI1 SUlA
* 14D
Ula la Vma
De              s           Osid                                   "       "     "        6   Am            in                 at    s     Om        111 at   anl                            t DL 11 9=   V Ud9J
PCg    tw    IN   IN    la   its   ii    19          I      sog   in    IN    log   IN st   IN    got   iiint  Is    lot   Iii    Ike   in    a:    al                     usl                     U     v. lm
1>      o     CD    tD    tD    0       RD    tb      0     SD    1D    t       ID           0            m M          m     m tO  M  Id    Ki   IUI   HUI            ^1 i  til                   B"   mi
U    U   U   U   EUU   U   U   U   U   U   U   U   U8  U   U   U   U   U   U   U   U   1550116K1   113                                                                                      *I13IUWZ
a                    p tt    go    n           I t   It    It    It   It    lb   it    it   It    it    it    It    it   It    It    ml   oi    oi    k                     hi                 lo 
a      a             a      a    a         a      a     a      a      a     a U                    a      CB    a      a     a      a      a U          w        U          a               111111U  U   B it  1 1111 M
ttJ111111011
lU      poa   EN                              SOt  MO    DIP  lIii   Alt          I   Ul    OtL  tMt   LW    Mt   t lW          t  St W    Alt   NM W I  19   t5   IN C     o       UL tL   wf1   111waU11
m      1      to     -    L            Lt    Ott   LI       9t  StLt     n    LIE   "t  LO1  tSoo    6                t1      I t   Bt    St  l    b    Me    5 a         -                       iN  m
09 M               M        UR    M w MMtO         tite UR       Ilt1 Ul       eI   ZM ue tll tUR        MM  ; itX      O     1\1M   SC1 ig     IU     ito tU                                  m  no1 
Out-liOg #        au      SIN     log   1W 1  1UK    OM    1 u0 gm        1   SW *l  gt   iuot   Sl   WlI ul  MI        1   1gal  WI        I   Otl  o13l  SUE   Ml   Ml
I:ILMa an wVinz VWs
uS 0 uiLW UI WLu1
1312tOd D1JS1iA dEn          MYN     am  yIoliyi
~*   *n                    ..



-63-
Table T-11
BOTSWAN
National Land Hanagmmt and LivestocL Project
Government Cash Flow
n1    Y2 .3    14    15    16    17    ye   19    T0o  11l   112   T13
inf      of Funds
IBRD  oan/Local Funds       5358  5521  7418  6220  7154
NDB Loan Repaymnts           -     -      -     -      -     -    1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833
Tax Revenue from BC a/       -      -      64   128   192   256   320   384   448   480   512   512   512
5358  5521  7482  6348  7346   256  2153  2217  2281  2313  2345  2345  2345
Obtflow of Funds
InveAstont Costs            4972  4904  5807  5243  5917
Recurrent Costs              386   617  1611   977  1237  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238
XBRD Repayments              -     -      -     -    2776  2776  2776  2776  2776  2776  2776  2776  2776
5358  5521  7418  6220  9930  4014  4014  4014  4014  4014  4014  4014  4014
Net BenefitlDeficit           -      -      64   128 (2584)(3758)(1861)(1797)(1733)(1701)(1669)(1669)(1669)
Y14   Y15  n16   Y17   118   119 n     20   121   122   123   124   125  126
rnflow of Funds
NDS Loan Repay               1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833  1833
Tax Revenues from BC          512   544   576   608   640   640   640   640   640   640   640   640   640
2345  2377  2409  2441  2473  2473  2473  2473  2473  2473  2473  2473   640
Outflow of Funds
Recurrent Coat               1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238
IBRD Repayments              2776  2776  2776  2776  2776  2776
4014  4014  4014  4014  4014  4014  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238  1238
Net Benefit/Deficit          (1669)(1637)(1605)(1573)(1573)(1573) 1235  1235  1235  1235  1235  1235
a/ Srles tax revenue from incremental beef throughput



- 64 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. THE PROJECT AREA
General
1.        The Project area is comprised of four districts (Ngamiland,
Central, Kweneng and Southern). They cover an area of about 35 million ha
(Maps IBRD 18766) which represents about 60% of the total land area of the
coulntry. Except in the south, the Project area is bordered by Natlonal
frontiers: Namibia in the west and north, and Zimbabwe and South Africa in
the east. The main line of rail and its branches either bisect or lie in
close proximity to three project districts and about 1,100 Km of tarred or
gravel road link the whole Project area. Export beef abattoirs are located
in the south at Lobatse and in the north at Maun. The proposed third
export abattoir will be built at Francistown in the Central District.
Physical Environment
2.        About 70% of the Project area is covered by Kalahari sands.
These sands vary from less than 3 metres to a 100 metres in depth and are
often underlain by a varying thickness of calcrete. In the Limpopo
catchment which forms the eastern portion of the Project area, the soils
are sandy loams with small areas of heavier clays in depressions and stony
shallow soils on the hills. Most are hard, clod forming and have a
naturally low fertility. Air temperatures in summer are around 23'-28'C
with an extreme range of about 10-150C above or below this average. In
the winter months day time temperatures range from 15'-20'C but fall
dramatically at night. No part of the area is free from risk of frost but
those in the north are few and mild. Average rainfall varies from 650mm in
the extreme north, through 400mm in the Limpopo catchment to 250mm in the
central and southern districts which form the bulk of the Project area.
Erratic Rainfall, together with high evaporation and poor soil fertility
and nutrient status, favour a natural grass/scrub cover to the land. This
is principally exploited by various livestock production systems but
substantial areas have been set aside as national parks and wildlife
management areas where tourist and hunting activities are undertaken.
Farm Families and Cattle Population
3.        85% of the country's farm families (70,200) and those holding
cattle (50,800) reside in the Project area. However, the cattle population
(2.1 million) is only about 70% of the national herd and this reflects a
high concentration of small cattle farmers, particularly in the Kweneng and
Southern districts.
Cattle Marketing & Planning
4.        Within the present limitation of abattoir capacity,farmers in the
southern part of Central, the Kweneng and Southern Districts have little



-65 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
difficulty marketing their cattle. All marketing options are available
and movement to the Lobatse abattoir is made relatively easy with the
proximity of the railway and major roads. However, in northern part of the
Project area logistical problems increase and this is compounded by
veterinary restrictions on cattle movement aimed at controlling Foot and
Mouth Disease (FMD). Despite an efficient veterinary service and a network
of cordon fences there remains an ever present risk of FMD outbreaks either
from cross-border infection or contact with wild buffaloes. This precludes
export beef sales to the EEC from all northern areas and until recently,
severely limited slaughter cattle offtake.  In 1983 a 20,000 head/annum
export abattoir for non-EEC sales was commissioned in Ngamiland and with
the third export abattoir proposed for Francistown, the northern farmers
will have a similar slaughter access enjoyed by their southern
counterparts.



- 66 -
ANNEX I
Page i
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Assessment of the Future Needs and Development of the Department
of Wildlife and National Parks
Background
1.        DWNP within the .-oistry of Commerce and Industry is responsible
for the conservation and management of the wildlife resource of Botswana.
This includes over a million large mammals. It is also responsible for the
conservation and administration of three national parks, five game reserves
aud two small wildlife areas, covering in total approximately 18Z of
Botswana and including a wide range of plant communities.
2.        In addition, DWNP is responsible for most wildlife matters
outside the parks and reserves, including t-he determination of annual
hunting quotas for the sizeable animal populations in these areas, and
administration of the licensing system. Hunting for subsistence and sport,
and use of wildlife products are an important economic activities in the
country valued at P12.4 million in 1981; a substantial number of rural
dwellers are totally or partially dependent cn wild animals for meat.
3.        Dhk-: is responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the
Fauna Conservation Act; control of tourism in parks and reserves; the
implementation of a wildlife education program; research and monitoring of
the wild animal populations and their habitats; and participation in
national and district planning where relevant to wildlife.
Objectives
4.        To analyse the performance of the Department of Wildlife and
National Parks in relation to: the nature of the wildlife resource, the
wildlife estate (parks, reserves, sanctuaries), wildlife-related tourism,
wildlife research programmes, wildlife legislation, the concept and
planning of wildlife management areas (WMAs) and their proposed functions,
wildlife utilization; the land use planning processes, and environmental
protection in the country.
5.        Thereafter recommendations would be made on:
(a) administrative changes considered necessary in the structure
and function of the department, both at headquarters and
district level; and the most appropriate ministerial location
for DWNP;
(b) existing proposals for development, research and utilization
projects with special reference to WMA development,
indicating areas of highest priority;
(c) a 'task force" of personnel necessary for implementation of
the wildlife utilization policy and development of WMAs;



- 67 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
(d) strengthening of the Wildlife Education Unit, particularly in
view of the increased need for extension work with the
introduction of the utilization policy and development of
WMAs;
(e) the timetable for the preparation of a comprehensive wildlife
master plan to define policies, its function and management,
for individual plans for parks and reserves; and for
management plans of each WMA;
(f) the preparation of a tourism master plan for the wildlife
areas and related tourism policies;
(g) budget requirements for the above recommendations.
Outputs
6.        A comprehensive report will be produced summarizing the current
situation of the Department and giving detailed recommendations for future
action to improve the current situation and prepare for and implement
programmes for WMAs and wildlife utilization.
Use of Outputs
7.        The final report will be used to assess ways of improving the
functioning of DWNP through restructuring, recruitment of staff, training,
development of new units etc. as appropriate.



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
A. PROJECT COORDINATOR
Introduction
1.        The Third Livestock Development Project will operate during a
period when considerable changes are foreseen for the livestock industry in
Botswana : the opening of a new abattoir will remove marketing constraints
and permit higher offtake rates, and the constraint of land availability
will become more severe forcing livestock owners to consider investments in
land development instead of cattle numbers. The taxation and price
policies pursued by the Government during this period will have important
effects upon the decisions of livestock owners and the viability of certain
types of investment or methods of husbandry.
Responsibilities & Duties
2.        The Project Coordinator will be responsible for coordinating the
work of the Project Coordination Unit to ensure that there is a close link
between the progress of TGLP and the development of investment packages
which will be attractive to livestock farmers. He will work closely with
BMC to ensure that the activities on the production side are carefully
coordinated with opportunities on the marketing side. Conversely he will
alert BMC of any innovative marketing thrusts that will be required as a
result of technical changes made by producers.
Organization
3.        The Project Coordinator will report directly to the Chief Agri-
cultural Economist, but he wili inform all relevant Ministries on the
substantive points arising from implementation of the Project through the
Steering Committee.
Qualifications
4.        The specialist must be experienced in livestock development and
he should have:
- a primary degree in livestock production
- experience at several levels in a livestock industry
(preferably in Africa) including planning, marketing and
research;
- experience in preparing and presenting policy papers.



- 69 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Tenure
5.        The Project Coordinator would be initially employed for 3 years,
after which the Government would make every effort to localise the position
with a suitably qualified professional officer.
B. BEEF PRICING SPECIALIST
Introduction
6.        The average return to the producer depends upon export market
realization less processing, marketing, transport costs and taxes levied
centrally on the livestock industry. Producer prices, paid by BMC .are
related to the grade of carcase as assessed by the Department of Animal
Health graders. There is already evidence that the quality and weight of
animals being submitted to the export abattoirs is declining and if this
situation continues unarrested, it may prove difficult for Botswana to
expand or even to maintain its share in the primary export markets. This
factor is closely linked with overgrazing of the rangeland and it is
apparent that the present pricing/grading system does not significantly
encourage improved range management practices.
Responsibilities
7.        The role of the Beef Pricing Specialist will be to recommend a
producer pricing structure that gives the correct signals to the farmers
for production of quality beef which, in turn, will encourage the develop-
ment of sustainable range management practices. In particular the
specialist will:
'C
(a) liaise with BMC to develop a management information system
for accurate product costing in relation to market returns.
(b) develop a reporting system to analyse cattle supply by area
and seasons, for weight and quality of carcase that would
assist BMC establish effective seasonal price differentials.
(c) prepare estimates of the effect which grade/price
differentials would have on the cash plan projections for the
various range improvement packages.
(d) detail a producer pricing structure that is consistant with
the Government's long-term development objectives for the
industry, and esttblish a capacity within the Department of
Economics of the MOA to continuously review beef prices.
(e) train personnel within the Department of Planning and
Statistics of the HOA to carry out an on-going review of beef
prices and their impact on the production of quality beef
production.
Organization
8.        The Beef Pricing Specialist would report directly to the Project
Coordinator.



- 70 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
QualificaLions
9.        The specialist must have 'hands on' marketing and pricing
experience in an export orientated beef industry and a primary degree in
economics.
Tenure
10.       The Beef Pricing Specialist would be employed for 1 year.
C. FINANCIAL ANALYST/TAXATION SPECIALIST
Introduction
11.       From the available data, it would appear that the livestock
industry directly returns its recurrent costs to the Government but
receives support on development expenditures. As no cattle ownership
statistics exist in Botswana outside the small number of freehold farmers,
revenue generation rrom income tax is difficult. To overcome this
situation, a gross sales tax is applied at the abattoirs and this forms
part of the deduction that producers face on marketing their cattle. It is
apparent that the present system of taxation on cattle farmers provides
little incentive for investment in improved range management practices or
any disincentive to those who continually -mine" the range through over-
grazing. If the range resources of the country are to be developed to
their full sustainable production capacity, it will be necessary to
implement a pricing and financial incentive/disincentive system that
encourages proper resource management from this developing sector of the
economy.
Responsibilities
12.       The Specialist will analyse the present taxation structure as it
effects the livestock industry and recommend a schedule of improvements
that would give the correct development signals to farmers and result in an
increase in overall revenue to the Government. In addition, the specialist
will establish a capacity and train personnel within the Taxation
Department for the on-going review of livestock taxation measures and their
relation to encouraging improved range management and quality beef
production.
13.       In particular the Specialist will:
(a) liaise with the Project's Beef Pricing Specialist on
analysing the impact of pricing changes on farmer incomes;
(b) liaise with the Ranch Extension Unit, the NDB and the Animal
Production Research Unit on production investment
requirements;
(c) work with the Department of Taxes in examining potential
improvements to the present tax collection mechanisms, and
establish a capacity within the Department to review
livestock tax policies as they effect production output;



71 -
ANNEX III
Page 4
(d) examine the feasibility for direct cost recovery from
producers for the Government's services to the livestock
industry;
(e) bring forward a detailed schedule of recommendations at the
conclusion of his tenure.
(f) establish an on-going review process of livestock taxation
measures within the Taxation Department.
Organization
14.       The Special4Jst would report through the Project Coordinator to
the Steering Committee of the Project.
Qualifications
15.       The Specialist will have a minimum of four years experience in
formulating taxation policies, have previously held a senior post in a
Government taxation department or an agency advising a Government on
taxation matters.
D. COORDINATOR OF LAND USE PLANNING
Introduction
16.       The production of professional district land use plans will be
essential if the objectives of the Tribal Grazing Lands Program (TGLP) are
to be met. The present responsibilities of the Land Use Planning Advisory
Groups (LUPAGs) and the Land Boards will be rationalized under the Project
with the formation of District Planning Units (DPUs). The LUPAGs would be
dissolved but their core membership and Land Board representation would be
included in the DPUs together with professionally trained planners.
National planning policies would be incorporated into the district planning
process.
Responsibilities
17.       The Coordinator of Land Use Planning will be directly responsible
for the work of all District Planning Units and their output. In
particular, the Specialist will:
(a) ensure the input of relevant Ministries, Departments, Units
and Institutions is adequately incorporated in district
plans;
(b) give guidance to the DPUs on national planning policies;
(c) provide technical supervision of DPU staff;
(d) liaise with the Land Use Planning Training Officer to ensure
that appropriate and effective training is given to all DPU
staff;



- 72 -
ANNEX III
Page 5
(e) act as Secretary to the National Land Development Committee
and propose Cabinet Information Notes on Land Use Plans;
(f) identify a suitable local candidate for the post of
Coordinator at the end of Year 3 of the Project.
Organization
18.       The Coordinator will be directl; responsible to the Under
Secretary (Lands) in the Ministry of Local Government and Lands.
Qualifications
19.       The specialist should have previous experience in land use
planning matters and a primary degree in environmental sciences.
Tenure
20.       The Coordinator would be employed for 4 years and, in his last
year, assist a local counterpart assume his responsibilities.
E. LAND USE PLANNING TRAINING OFFICER
Introduction
21.       The early enthusiasm of initiating TGLP led to the land use
planning process being vested in groups whose planning background was
professionally weak. This lack of professional training has created
inconsistencies in approach to planning issues and is partly responsible
for the piece-meal development of the land use plans to date. In order to
build a long term planning capacity within the Government, the Project
would fund a position for a Land Use Planning Training Officer. He would
be located in the Ministry of Local Government and Lands but seconded to
the School of Environmental Sciences at the University of Botswana.
Responsibilities
22.       The Land Use Planning Training Officer would be responsible for
ensuring that an adequate number of graduates are available for the
planning cadres within the country and these graduates have received/
continue to receive the relevant training for the job related activities.
In particular the Officer would:
(a) plan curricula for new planning graduates in the Department
of Environmental Science at U of B.
(b) liaise with the Coordinator of Land Use Planning in devising
suitable training programmes for present District Planning
Unit staff. This would take the form of both in-service and
post-graduate training;



- 73-
ANNEX III
Page 6
(c) liaise with all relevant Ministries and Departments to ensure
adequate participation in DPU training programs;
(d) make recommendations to MLGL and MOA on future manpower needs
in their planning cadres;
(e) carry out all necessary in-service training of DP'J staff;
(f) select a local counterpart to assume the officer's role at
the end of the third year of the Project.
Organization
23.       The officer would be responsible to the Head of the Department of
Environmental Science at the University of Botswana.
Qualifications
24.       The officer would have had a minimum of 5 years training
experience in a developing country (probably in Africa) and a primary
degree in environmental sc'ences.
Tenure
25.       The Officer would be employed for four years.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Animal Production Division Input for Communal Area Development
1.        The Project input of Specialists (para 3.10) will focus specifi-
cally on assisting rural communities estahlish disciplined grazing manage-
ment practices. The specialists will he directly responsible to the Chief
Animal Production Officer and through him, report their activities to the
Project Coordination Unit.
2.        The initial requirement will be to create a working relationship
between the District Planning Units and the Land Boards so as an informa-
tion base can he developed on potential community grazing areas. In
addition, the specialists will liaise with field extension officers who are
best placed to note community interest in disciplined grazing management.
The Division's SLOCA program will provide a base of progressive farmers and
all initiatives will be followed up through field visits. Where interested
communities are identified, the technical options developed by the Animal
Production Research Unit (APRU) can be shaped to fit the individual
circumstance. With the complex and diverse structure of rural communities
it is unlikely that a single development model will suffice for this work.
3.        When the program of development is agreed on with a community,
the Prolect will furnish funds on a grant basis and supe.vise implementa-
tion. The Division would continually monitor progress and be on hand to
offer both technical and administrative advice to the community.
4.        The APD will also monitor the impact of national policies on
pricing and taxation as they effect farmers in communal areas, and be
responsible for advising the Government on incentives/disincentives
necessary to improve the productivity and welfare of small livestock
farmers.



- 75 -
ANNEX V
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Annual Review of Project Progress
1.        The annual Project Report should incorporate the following
material:
(a) Reasonably detailed description of physical and financial
results of previous year's operations.
(b) Summary of principal operating problems arising during
previous year's operations.
(c) Proposed Project budget for next fiscal year, including
capital and recurrent expenditures, staffing requirements for
involved Government agencies, and forecast demand for loans
and grants.
2.        The following subjects would be discussed between the Government
and IBRD during the annual review of Project progreds:
(a) Project staffing requirements and related training programs.
(b) NDB ranch lending operations, including progress in the
previous year and proposals for the future program; ranch
plans, models, criteria for selection of borrowers, and the
loan supervision program would be reviewed.
(c) Progress in implementing the Communal Grazing Unit Program
and its demand for grant funds.
(d) (At the end of the third year of the Project) a beef pricing
schedule and financial incentive/disincentive package
consistent with the Government's long-term development
objectives for the livestock sub-sector.
(e) Land use plans for the four Project Districts.
(f) Land demarcation progress and the allocation of ranches and
community grazing areas.
(g) Wildlife conservation matters.



IBRD 18766
A N G O  L A         _       _ \t. q;iZ A M B I AP.
BOTSWANA
~~"  \  ~~NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT
r zf  OBE \v\]          AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
tr *tr~  A.  IM. N,W F,11 Pt.M
4  gg<   \  Z I M              . A   . W E  -   ..t
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 r,-'-- 
 ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N"   ft.,,. 
F   ' .,  W-__    KGALAGADI         X                      W                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~6A"DI1 
L-h A-~ C-. .
IMAD~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A DI8
C13                                    "N~~ A    l  o                      El                     Aa,.
t                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ?~   MAU IM.   Mf
Z  . . . . . . . . . . /  r~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -. .ft.am A ~TN7
ir                                        CENTRAli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-   SA7A 
ow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Pb,Lelha&0w                       '~~~~~~~~~~\ZIMBA EWE
SOUTH AFRICA.
-  .~~~~~WS  =  -   fl.  -   . ~~~~~~~~~~~AFRICA                  -
N -. - US - U * ''.* 0* U fl* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      MY 1



