Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
oiA/  S
Report No. P-3998-BT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRfIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED L OAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 10.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
May 6, 1985
Ths document hs a restrided distnbuth. s.d mny be wed by reeipieats omy iu the performace of
their official dus    s loutetos may aft odhrwise be dsclsed without World BDk auhortiom.  .



C-RCr EQU ALS
US$1.00      -   Pula 1.78
Pula 1.00    -   US$0.56
WEIGHTS AID MEASURES
1 hectare    -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer  -  0.62 miles
1 metric ton - 2204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ALDEP  -  Arable Lands Development-Prcgram
BMC    -  Botswana Meat Commission
DPU    -  District Planning Units
EEC    -  European Economic Community
NDB    -  National Development Bank
NDP    -  National Development Plan
TGLP   -  Tribal Grazing Lands Policy
Government Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
1XRD Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MNAAGEUTNK AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LON AND PROJUC  SuM
Borrower:                 Republic of Botswana.
Amount:                   US$10.7 million.
Terms:                    Payable in 19 years, including 4 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiary:              (of ranch credit component):  National
Development Bank (NDB).
Onlending Terms:          Payable in 25 years at prevailing interest rate
for Government loans to parastatals (currently 10
percent). NDB would relend to the ultimate
beneficiaries for 17 years, including 5 years'
grace, at an interest rate of 17 and 16 percent
(depending on size of subloan), which is positive
in real terms. NDB's foreign exchange risk would
be shared by the Government and NDB according to
an established formula.
Purpose:                  The project would strengthen the Government's
institutional capability to promote more rational
and effective utilization of Botswana's vast and
overgrazed traditional rangelands. Specifically,
it would: (a) support the Government's
long-range land tenure reforms; (b) increase
comnercial livestock production and improve its
efficiency; (c) promote equity through developing
assistance programs for small and medium-scale
cattle-holders; (d) encourage improved herd
management and range conservation; and (e)
strengthen institutions responsible for both
livestock development and wildlife management.
The objectives would be achieved through
provision of credit and skilled management for
the establishment of commercial ranches by
individuals and groups according to national
policy guidelines; far-reaching reform of the
system of land-use planning and management;
upgrading of trek routes; and technical
assistance for institutional coordination,
training and extension, project management, range
ecology, and analysis of pricing, cost-recovery
and taxation policy.
Iliis document has a restricted distributio and may be use by reCipients only in the pexfomnace
of their ofricual duties Its contents may not otherwise be discsesd without World Bank authorizition.



- li -
Benefits:         In the face of serious overgrazing and range degradation,
which threatens the long-term viability of the cattle
industry, the project alms to support the Government's
land tenure reform proposals for linking producers to
specific grazing areas and encouraging further
development of improved livestock management. About
1,000 farmers (800 small, 80 medium-scale and 130
commercial producers) would be directly involved, but the
project's focus on land-use planning and improved
rangeland management would form the basis for the
eventual involvement of most of the country's 58,000
livestock farmers.
Risks:            The adverse effects of a continuation of the drought
would be minimized by the better range management
proposed. An outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease could
affect benefits by limiting beef exports, although
Botswana's veterinary services and control of cattle
movements are capable of responding promptly to an
emergency. The Government's commitment to the reform
prograi. is likely to minimize any reluctance by herdsmen
to change traditional values.
US$ Million
Estimated Cost:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
1. Land-use Planning                                1.4      2.3       3.7
2. Ranch Development Credit                         1.5      4.4       5.9
3.  Trek Route Upgrading                            0.4      0.6       1.0
4. Community Grazing & Extension                    0.9      2.0       2.9
5.  Project Management                              0.1      0.6       0.7
6.  Livestock Pricing & Taxation Policy
Analysis                                      0.0      0.2       0.2
Base Cost                                     4.3     10.1      14.4
7.  Physical Contingencies                          0.1      0.1       0.2
8.  Price Contingencies                             1.3      1.9       3.2
Total Project Cost
(Including Insignificant Taxes and Duties)  5.7       12.1     17.8
,,==     =         ,,
US$ Million
Financing Plan:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                           -      10.7      10.7
Government                    5.6      1.4       7.0
Farmers' Contribution         0.1       -        0.1
Total                 5.7     12.1      17.8



- ili -
Estimated Disbursements:   IBRD Fiscal Year   86   87   88   89    90    91
Annual         0.8  2.4  3.0  2.5   1.8   0.2
Cumulative     0.8  3.2  6.2  8.7  10.5  10.7
Economic Rate of Return
(of ranch development and
trek-route components):    16 percent.
Appraisal Report:           No. 5471-BT.
Mpo. IBRD 18766.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$10.7 million to
help finance a National Land Management and Livestock Project. The loan
would have a term of 19 years, including 4 years of grace, with a variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Botswana (Report No. 3647-BT) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1982. A new draft
Economic Memorandum has been reviewed by the Government and is in the final
stage of preparation. This description is based on that draft memorandum
and information obtained on subsequent missions.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country in Southern Africa, bordered by
the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With an area
of 570,000 sq km and an estimated population of just over one million
(mid-1983) it is for the most part sparsely populated. Over 80 percent of
the population is concentrated along the relatively fertile eastern third
of the country, as two thirds of the country is covered by the Kalahari
Desert. Rainfall is erratic and drought frequent.
4.        The 1970s was a decade of rapid economic growth and budgetary and
balance of payments stabilicy. The mining of diamonds and nickel/ copper,
which started ir. the early 1970s, led to real increases in CDP of over 10
percent a year daring the decade. Per capita GNP1/ rose frum US$110 in
1970 to about US$900 by 1981. Increased receipts from the Customs
Union2/, direct taxes and mineral royalties caused recurreitc revenue to
rise nearly 33 percent a year, which was substantially in excess of the
growth in recurrent expenditure. Recurrent budgetary surpluses, together
with grants, covered nearly half of the steadily growing capital
expenditures, and since external borrowing exceeded requirements, the
1/ Calculated by the Bank Atlas method.
2/ The Southern Africa Customs Union, comprising Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland
and South Africa, is administered by South Africa. Import duties and excise
taxes are levied anid collected by South Africa, deposited into a common pool
and then distributed to the members based on each country's share in
production and trade.



-2-
Government became a net creditor of the banking system. The economy also
showed overall surpluses in the balance of payments due primarily to the
rapid rise in exports and to large private capital inflows associated with
mining investments.
5.        During 1981, the slump in world demand for diamonds and metal
prices had major repercussions on Botswana's mineral-led, export-dependent
economy. Real growth in GDP declined in 1981/82, and exports and foreign
exchange reserves fell sharply as the diamond mines began stockpiling part
of their production. Receipts from nickel/copper exports also fell,
causing severe financial problems for the mining company. Total export
receipts in 1981 declined by 21 percent, whereas imports continued to
grow. The deficit in the trade and service balance increased sharply and
was not sufficiently covered by inflows on the transfer and capital
account. For the first time in over a decade, Botswana recorded an overall
balance of payments deficit. Foreign reserves had fallen to about 3.4
months of imports by the end of 1981 from 4.7 months in 1979 and 4.1 in
1980. To cope with the economic strains of reduced mineral exports and
revenues, the Government sought to control the growth of aggregate demand
by raising interest rates, restraining domestic credit expansion, imposing
a general wage freeze in early 1982, devaluing the pula by 10 percent in
May 1982, and cutting the Government's development budget for FY82/83 by
over 15 percent.
6.        In mid-1982, the prospects for Botswana's economy started to
improve again following the opening of a third diamond mine. Although
Botswana continues to stockpile part of its total diamond production, the
opening of the new mine, at Jwaneng, led to higher export quotas and earn-
ings. By the end of 1982, a surplus in the overall balance of payments was
restored and foreign reserves covered almost 4-1/2 months of imports.
7.        The outcome of the 1982/83 budget was more favorable than
expected because of higher mineral revenues and cuts in capital spending.
The overall budgetary deficit was equal to about four percent of GDP. The
current account deficit on the balance of payments was reduced to just over
six percent of GDP from about 22 percent in the preceding year.
Disbursements from foreign loans covered over 75 percent of the deficit,
and foreign reserves at the end of 1083 covered more than five months of
imports. As a result of increased revenue from diamonds as well as
under-spending, the 1983/84 Government budget produced a substantial
surplus. Latest Government estimates show that the current account deficit
was further reduced in 1984, reflecting some improvement in the diamond
market and weakness of the pula against the US dollar. Due to a persistent
strengthening of the pula against the South African rand, in January 1985,
the pula was officially devalued by approximately 15 percent against the
currency basket to which it is pegged. Since diamonds are priced in US
dollars, this will further increase Government revenue.
8.        Over the past two years, the long-term development issues have
been considerably overshadowed by the prolonged drought. The Government
has alleviated the adverse effects of the drought through a relief program
which includes the provision of rations to 20,000 people, labor projects



which offer short-term jobs for 15,000 and 20 kg of free seed to all
farming households. Farmers also receive grants for de-stumping and draft
power for ploughing. The Government's relief program is continuing in 1985
as the drought persists in the Southern and Western parts of the country.
9.        Despite very rapid growth during the 19709, Botswana's economy is
still at an early stage of development, extremely vulnerable to changes in
international mineral and metal markets and to drought and recurring out-
breaks of animal diseases. The mineral-led development has not encouraged
the building up of linkages within the economy and only modestly increased
the number of employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force.
Historically, Botswana's economy has been centered on livestock and, until
today, traditional agriculture and cattle raising have remained the main
economic activity for about 80 percent of the population. However, an
increasing concentration of cattle ownership, partly resulting from
drought which affected mainly owners of small herds, has reduced the
options for about 50 percent of the population to make a reasonable living
from agriculture alone.
10.       The major challenge for the Government in the present decade is
to provide the infrastructure and services required by the more labor-
intensive productive sectors, to foster linkages and to create lasting
employuent opportunities for Botswana's labor force, which is growing at
over 3 percent a year and is vulnerable to reductions in employment oppor-
tunities in South Africa.
II.       One of the most serious constraints on growth of the productive
sectors is the severe shortage of skilled technical, managerial and profes-
sional manpower, which greatly impairs the country's absorptive capacity,
encourages the use of capital intensive technology, raises production
costs, and stifles investment. A high proportion of skilled and p.Vfes-
sional positions are filled by expatriates and many posts in Government
(particularly in local government) and the private sector are inadequately
staffed. The manufacturing sector is further constrained by the small
domestic market, the country's limited raw materials base and landlocked
position, and competition from South Africa and Zimbabwe.
12.       The agricultural sector, particularly arable farming, is loosed
upon as the main source of future employment. Crop farming, however, is
circumscribed by the limited availability of surface water, sparse and
erratic rainfall, and frequent drought. The sector's ability to support
additional labor may therefore always remain limited. Ecological
conditions render most parts of the country more favorable to livestock
than crop production. However, the system of communal grazing and the
traditional values associated have contributed to overstocking and
progressive land degradation.
13.       The Government is moving ahead with programs to deal with these
constraints. The Fifth National Development Plan accords high priority to
education, with emphasis on primary education, as a means of alleviating
the country's manpower constraint. The Sixth Plan is likely to continue to
emphasize education and manpower development. Industry is being supported



through promotional activities by the Botswana Development Corporation,
preference in bidding for government contracts, and Financial Assistance
Policy (FAP) which includes the provision of tax holidays, favorable
interest rates, seed-capital for investors, and payroll and training
grants. A Tribal Grazing Lands Policy (TGLP) was introduced in 1975 with
the primary aim of controlling overstocking and range degradation while
increasing incomes from cattle-raising by improving land quality, enhancing
range management and boosting operating efficiency. An Arable Lands
Development Program (ALDEP), a multi-faceted operation designed to raise
productivity in crop farming, was introduced in 1979. Both ALDEP and TGLP
are expected to permit more labor-intensive use of the land.
Population Status
14.       Botswana's population has been growing at an estimated 3.3
percent a year, with urban population almost tripling during the 1970s.
The growth rate may increase further as the crude death rate declines from
a level that is already among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Total
fertility3/ has remained close to a rate of 6.5. This has resulted in
almost half of the population being under the age of 15; so that, even if
fertility declines, natural increase will remain high as these children
reach reproductive age. Projections show that Botswana's 1983 population of
just one million could in the next 30 years reach levels ranging from 3.5
million (if fertility remains constant) to 2.0 million (if there is a
significant decline in fertility). To this end, an ongoing Bank-financed
Family Health Project is helping to establish a comprehensive family
planning program in Botswana.
Development Assistance
15.       :!-.ltilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has
been the main multilateral source, but the EEC, the CDC, the African
Development Bank and OPEC sources have also been active. Bilateral
assistance has come from numerous sources. In 1978 almcst two-thirds of
Botswana's outstanding bilateral debt was converted into grants. At the
end of 1983, total external debt outstanding (disbursed only) was estimated
at US$230 million, debt service payments were US$24 million and the debt
service ratio 3.1 percent. Botswana's future external capital requirements
will depend on the state of the world mineral market and the outlook for
diamonds in particular. While Botswana is expected to continue to receive
substantial assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources on grant or
concessional terms, these may have to be supplemented by loans from
commercial sources should current account deficits rise. However, diamond
exports are expected to continue to recover and Botswana should remain
creditworthy for the required borrowing.
3/ The total fertility rate represents the number of children that would be
born per woman if she were to live to the end of her childbearing years and
bear children at each age according to nrevailing age-specific fertility
rates.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
16.       The Bank Group began operations in what was then Bechuanaland in
1964, and has approved 18 loans (US$208.4 million, including US$43.5
million on Third Window terms, less cancellations) and six credits (US$15.9
million) for a total of US$224.2 million (less cancellations). These loans
and credits have financed five roads projects, three education projects,
two livestock projects, two urban projects, three water supply projects,
two development finance projects, one thermal power project, a health and
population project and three operations to help provide infrastructure for
nining development. IFC has had one investment in Botswana: an equity
participation of US$370,000 in the Botswana Development Corporation,
approved in March 1979, was increased by US$481,000 in 1983. Summary
statements of Bank Group Operations in Botswana are provided in Annex II.
17.       The Bank Group's share of Botswana's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of FY84 was about 36 percent (IBRD - 30.5 percent,
IDA - 5.5 percent), and its share in debt service was about 30.7 percent.
The Bank's exposure in Botswana increased sharply following the conversion
of external debt into grants in 1979. Since then, it has fallen and will
continue to decline, as the Government's borrowings from both official and
commercial sources have been increasing sharply during the past three
years.
18.       Botswana's project planning and execution have been good, and
Bank-assisted projects have encountered relatively few complications.
Botswana's overall disbursement performance has been quite good, its annual
rate of disbursement averaging 22 percent during 1980-83, compared with a
Regional average of 18.3 percent. The rate was affected by the slow
release of funds under the Second Livestock Project and delays in a
component for building materisls subloans in the Second Urban Project,
although, in both cases, the Government took satisfactory measures to
hasten disbursements.
19.       A problematical operation with which the Bank has been associated
is the Shase copper/nickel mining complex based at Selebi- Phikwe, the
infrastructure for which was financed with the help of Bank loans totaling
US$37.5 million (loans 776-BT and 776-2-BT). Although the infrastructure
works were completed on schedule in 1976, the mining operation itself has
experienced a prolonged financial crisis, caused mainly by depressed metal
prices. This has resulted in three financial restructurings of the mining
company, BCL Limited, which is indirectly controlled by the Anglo-American
Corporation of South Africa Limited and AMAX Incorporated of the United
States, with a 15 percent equity holding by the Botswana Government.
20.       The latest restructuring, approved by the Bank's Executive
Directors in June 1982 (Memorandum R82-191), was intended to reduce the
mining company's debt burden by continuing deferrals of interest and
principal payments and converting a large proportion of senior debt to
subordinated debt. In addition, existing subordinated debt was converted



to preference shares. The restructuring also provided for injections of
working capital, which has continued from Anglo-American, Amax and the
Government. The mine's owners are currently discussing the possibility of
a further restructuring to enable mine operations to continue.
21.       Bank Strategy.  The Bank's strategy for its lending program and
economic and sector work in Botswana aims to support the Government's
increased emphasis on generating greater and more equitable economic
opportunity outside the capital-intensive mining enclaves. This will
require project support for greater diversification of the economy,
especially into industrial enterprises linked to livestock and arable
agriculture, and assistance for helping arable agriculture overcome
considerable climatic and marketing constraints. In the livestock
subsector, Bank assistance will seek to increase productivity and extend
ranching opportunities to a wider range of farmer, while supporting
Government reforms to reverse degradation of the country's grazing lands.
Because population pressures on the fragile land resources and small
modern-sector industrial base threaten in the long run to overwhelm
economic progress, the Bank proposes to continue to support the
comprehensive and enlightened family planning program introduced recently
by the Government with the help of a Bank-financed project.
22.       The Bank and the Government are also in agreement on the need to
accelerate manpower development and improve the range and quality of
employment-oriented training so that Botswana's high dependence on
expatriates can be reduced. A project being prepared for Bank financing
would support these objectives, and in particular help the Government
implement a comprehensive national plan for apprenticeship training, while
a study is planned for improving management and accountancy training. We
expect lending for infrastructure to be reduced considerably from previous
high levels, which were justified in view of the scant provision of
infrastructure in Botswana before Independence. Future infrastructure
lending and sector studies will emphasize least-cost solutions (as in
energy and road transportation), defining long-term strategies (as in water
supply) and institution-building. The Government recently agreed to the
Bank carrying out a study to help formulate a public sector investment
program, which would focus on priorities in the Government's incipient
program for carrying out structural adjustments to diversify the economy
and increase employment opportunities.
PART III. THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Background
23.       The importance of agriculture to Botswana is much greater than
indicated by its 11 percent share of GNP. It is the main source of
livelihood for about 85 percent of the population and the second largest
foreign exchange earner after diamond mining, accounting for 18 percent of
export revenues. As crops suffer from poor rainfall, most agricultural
production is from livestock. The total cattle herd was estimated before



-7-
the current drought at about 3 million head - three times the country's
human population. Of the 85,000 farm families, all but 360 freehold
ranchers use the traditional tribal grazing land of 37 million ha. There
is a wide variety in the size, income and skills of those using the land:
ranging from subsistence farmers who grow food crops near the villages and
keep herds of less than about 40 head of cattle; to medium-scale farmers
with herds of up to about 100 head who produce a moderate surplus for
slaughter; to larger, fully commercial operators with herds of between 100
and several thousand cattle.
24.       The Government has aimed to promote the maximum sustainable
production and income growth from the cattle industry while assisting crop
farmers meet their subsistence food requirements. These efforts have been
supported by a Tribal Grazing Lands Program (TGLP), which proposes major
land tenure reforms, and an Arable Lands Development Program (ALDEP),
whichfocusses on the provision of inputs and services to small crop
farmers, although the program has not yet realized its potential. In
recent years, both livestock and crop production have suffered setbacks,
namely outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease in 1978 and 1980, which reduced
beef exports by 50 percent in those years; and a continuing drought since
1981. Partly as a result of the premature slaughter of animals in the
drought, in which about 17 percent of the herd may have been lost
altogether, cattle sales to the abattoirs and beef exports have reached
record levels, and in 1983 Botswana was for the first time able to fulfill
its quota of exported beef to the European Economic Community. But the
quality of the herd has deteriorated and crops have been devastated, crop
production falling in 1983 to 7,000 metric tons (about 7 percent of
national consumption) compared to about 90,000 tons achieved during years
of good rainfall.
Land Tcour, Reform
25.          1975, the Government instituted its Tribal Grazing Lands
Polic.  al'), which aimed to change the traditional system of land tenure,
increase herd offtake and arrest degradation of the veldt by replacing
free-for-all grazing with leasehold commercial ranching. except in those
areas close to the villages essential to the small subsistence farmer.
Preference was to be given to groups in the allocation of ranches. TGLP
was viewed as a major land reform program that would affect directly or
indirectly virtually every Batswana. In particuilar, it was expected to
reduce the gap between rich and poor by providirg the aspiring smaller
farmer with the opportunity to take up ranching on a commercial scale,
while off ering protection to the smaller herdsmen from the unrestricted
grazing of the larger commercial herds. However, the program has fallen
short of its aims because of fundamental weaknesses in planning;
establishment of an inadequate number of fenced ranches, often on land on
the periphery of the most overgrazed areas; and the difficulty in designing
assistance for communal herdsmen. As a result, overstocking by large and
small herdsmen alike has continued because the open range has been regarded
as a free resource, with little incentive for cattle-owners to improve the
management of the range and their herds. A zoning of tribal land that
followed the introduction of the Tribal Grazing Lands Policy compounded the



-8-
problem by greatly underestimating the extent of commercial herd holdings,
with the result that a disproportionate total area was set aside for
communal grazing.
26.       Land Boards.  The impact of the Tribal Grazing Lands Policy has
also been limited by the difficulties experienced by Botswana'u '& land
boards, which were established in 1968 to take over the disposition of
tribal lands from the chiefs. Each land board typically includes two
members appointed by the Minister of Local Government and Lands; two
district councillors; the chief or tribal authority; and a nominee of the
chief. To lessen the administrative burden, there are 35 subordinate land
boards. Training for board technicians is being provided through the
Bank-financed Second Urban Project (Lor1i 1584-ST). The land boards were
given the responsibility, under Government guidance, of zoning and
allocating land and granting leases consistent with the objectives of
TGLP. Their powers were far-reaching, including mapping of zoned
boundaries; limiting the number of cattle that should be grazed in specific
areas; deciding on the location of boreholes in the light of the carrying
capacity of the area; and ruling on which areas were de facto commercial
areas and should be formally zoned as such. The boards have encountered
numerous obstructions - local political, social, administrative and
technical - to achieving their objectives, with the result that
comprehensive district land-use plans have not been produced adequately.
Also the boards have been poorly supported by Government-created advisory
groups, wLich were intended to promote comprehensive district planning but
have degenerat-d into unwieldy committees. Recently the Government, which
has the ultimate constitutional authority to impose land tenure
adjustments, has directly intervened on several occasions because of the
boards' inability to take difficult decisions. As effective functioning of
the land-planning process according to established guidelines is essential
for the success of the Government's land reform policy, the proposed
project includes a major component for its strengthening (paras. 45 and
46).
Livestock Services
27.      The Ministry of Agriculture provides a wide range of livestock
services as follows: (i) Animal Health. Despite intermittent outbreaks
of foot-and-mouth disease, veterinary service has been maintained at a high
standard and is regarded as one of the most efficient in the continent.
Cordon fences and quarantine camps are widely located, and the Government
has established its own vaccine laboratory. In addition, a network of
livestock advisory centers provides vaccines, insecticides and treatment
for other pests, feed supplements and fencing and other material.  (ii)
Field Services. A district network of agricultural extension is supported
by: (a) artificial insemination for upgrading traditional cattle; (b) a
subsidy scheme for selling improved stock to small farmers; (c) promotion
of cattle auctions and maintenance of handling facilities at railway
sidings; (d) extension and credit advice to commercial ranchers; (e)
mapping and demarcation of TGLP ranches; (f) public information support,
through the media and other channels, for extension work; and (g) training
of ranch managers and extension staff. (iii) Research. The Department of



-9-
Agricultural Research operates 16 demonstration ranches which focus on the
carrying capacity of the land, change8 in range ecology, breed improvement
and management systems. In particular, range management systems
appropriate to communal grazing are being developed. (iv) Cooperatives. A
country-wide network of 65 producer cooperative societies, with a
membershiD of 20,000, functions under the umbrella of the Botswana
Cooperati$7e Union, with technical support and training provided through the
Department of Cooperative Development. The cooperative movement runs its
own banking service in the form of the Botswana Cooperative Bank.
Cattle Marketing & Trekking
28.       Cattle are trekked overland to the abattoirs or transported by
road or rail, often in a combination of means. About 900 kms of trek
routes have been established with boreholes at intervals of about 30 kms.
The railway, with 16 dispatch points, is the most widely used system for
final delivery to the abattoir, and handles 70 percent of all cattle
slaughtered. Cattle weight and grade is also protected by final delivery
through a sizeable fleet of cattle trucks owned by private contractors or
the farmers themselves.
29.       Farmers sell their cattle to the Botswana Meat Commission's
abattoirs either direct or through agents or cooperatives. Eleven
registered private agents provide the most significant channel, accounting
for 65 percent of total sales in 1983. The agents pay an annual licence
fee and charge a commission for undertaking the logistics of moving
cattle. About 20 percent of total sales are usually handled by the
cooperatives, which charge a commission. Direct sale of cattle to the
abattoirs is done mostly by larger farmers, although smaller farmers are
expected to increase their direct sales as they improve their understanding
of procedures and as plautied increase of abattoir capacity is achieved.
Some cattle are sold for cash through private buyers, butchers, village
markets, and local auctions. Cash sales are facilitated by the Botavana
Livestock Development Corporation, which was created with Bank Group
assistance and performs effectively and competitively as a public livestock
buyer from cattle producers in remote areas.
Agricultural Credit
30.       Botswana's three commercial banks and the National Development
Bank are the most significant lenders for agriculture, apart from the
Cooperative Bank (para. 27) and the Botswana Development Corporation, which
supports intensive crop and cattle farming. Although the commercial banks
have dominated the financial sector, their activities have been limited in
the traditional sector because of lack of collateral. However, as the
leasehold ranches being developed under TGLP can be offered as security,
the commercial banks should find this avenue of lending .ore attractive.
31.       The National Development Bank (NDB) has recently been assigned a
wider development role after operating for 15 years at modest levels.
NDB's expansion of lending for agriculture and small-scale commerce and
indust-y was assisted by the Bank-financed Second Livestock Project, which
provided funos for the establishment of five regional offices and 16



- 10 -
district offices. In the three years up to 1982, NDB's loan portfolio grew
from about US$2.0 million to about US$21 million, of whlch 60 percent was
in agriculture. This expansion caused severe strains on the Bank's
accounting system, which is being strengthened through the
ongoing Bank-financed Second DFC Project. The proposed reorganization and
strengthening of management and accounting will in particular equip NDB for
a more aggressive promotion of industrial enterprises, besides its more
socially-oriented credit activities among small traditional farmers. Apart
from the credit proposed through the project, NDB's total loan approvals
for the five years 1984-88 are expected to amount to US$89.0 million, about
56 percent of which would be for small agricultural loans, amounting to
US$49.0 million. As of September 31, 1984, NDB had assets of US$29.2
million, including net fixed assets of US$6.2 million. Its capital,
totaling US$6.0 million, was restructured under the DFC II Project to the
satisfaction of the Bank. Under the'proposed project, the Government would
provide an additional US$1.2 million in equity. NDB has agreed to improve
debt recovery, as loan arrears of more than three months totaled US$1.5
million in 1982; and carry out a study to reduce the relatively high cost
of administering small agricultural loans. However, continuation of the
drought into the 1983/84 cropping season has thwarted these efforts,
although the Government has assured NDB that it will make good any
irretrievable loan losses arising from lending to small farmers.
Beef Marketing, Pricing and Processing
32.       About 85 percent of the cattle slaughtered in Botswana is
exported, mainly to the European Economic Community (EEC), which accounts
for about two-thirds of the country's boneless beef exports. Consumption
of Botswana beef is highest in the United Kingdom. Much of the remainder
goes to South Africa, which also imports nearly all Botswana's exported
carcasses. Smaller markets are being developed in Angola, Mozambique and
Hong Kong. Botswana's preferential access to the EEC under the Lome II
Agreement has been confirmed by the recently-negotiated Lome III, under
which Botswana has retained its 19,000 tonnes share of the quota, with an
option to take up any other country's unfilled annual share. In recent
years, Botswana has met its EEC quota irregularly mainly because of
outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and a consequent beef import ban by the
EEC, which has since been lifted. The prices paid for export beef by the
Botswana Meat Commission are based on the average export price minus the
cost of processing and taxation. Beef exports are forecast to reach about
42,000 tons by 1998 and stabilize, requiring Botswana to find markets for
an additional 12,000 tons of beef over next 15 years, compared with total
production of over 30,000 tons in 1983. Prospects for achieving this are
reasonable so long as planned steps to safeguard the country's rangeland,
improve the quality of beef production and expand abattoir capacity are
taken. Botswana is currently restructuring and expanding its marketing
operation in Europe to be fully responsive to market trends. The reduction
of South Africa's cattle herd also presents new opportunities for Botswana
exports.
33.       The Botswana Meat Commission is entirely responsible for the
export marketing of beef through its main abattoir at Lobatse in the
southeast and a recently-commissioned smaller abattoir at Maun in the



- 11 -
northwest. The Lobatse abattoir has been operating well above its designed
capacity of 190,000 head of cattle per year, and during the drought reached
a record level of 240,000 head, thus jeopardizing the condltion and life of
the plant. This lack of abattoir capacity has been a major cause of the
unsatisfactory offtake from the herd, which has grown by 40 percent over
the past decade while offtake has remained almost constant. This shortfall
between actual and potential offtake is estimated to have risen from about
10,000 head in 1973 to about 52,000 head in 1982. The Government recently
decided to build an abattoir at Francistown with an initial capacity of
between 90,000 and 100,000 per head of cattle per annum besides sheep and
goats. The process for tendering of the design contract has begun, and
commissioning of the plant is expected early in 1988. The Government has
submitted to the Bank an acceptable timetable for the design, construction
and commissioning of the new abattoir.
Livestock Incentives and Disincentives
34.       Income tax is paid on livestock operations by a small number of
freehold farmers but the lack of cattle-ownership data and the practice of
selling cattle through many family members has limited the Government's
ability to levy a direct tax on the vast majority of livestock farmers.
The main revenues from the livestock industry come from a gross sales tax
applied on beef gales of the Botswana Meat Commission, yielding US$11
million in 1983, and an additional per head export levy. It is Government
policy to recover recurrent costs in the subsector. Although Government
expenditure on the livestock industry is difficult to quantify, direct
revenue received from taxes and chacges for services is close to covering
the Government's recurrent costs on an annual basis, but does not make a
contribution to development expenditures. As pricing, taxation and
cost-recovery need to be looked at in the context of a comprehensive system
of Imceattves aad disincentives that would enhance more efficient use of
the rangelands and the quality of the herd, the project would support
studies to develop such a system (para. 51).
Bank Assistance for Livestock; Lessons Learned
35.       The Bank Group has provided a total of US$8.2 million for two
livestock development projects (Credit No. 325-BT and Loan No. 1498-BT). A
Project Completion Report and a Performance Audit Report (No. 325-BT) have
been prepared for the first project and a Project Completion Report is
being prepared for the second project, which closed on June 30, 1984. The
First Livestock Project, begun in March 1973, aimed to establish leasehold
cattle ranches and sheep farms in the Kalahari region and a small
parastatal organization to assist marketing from remote areas.  The project
was completed three years late, with cost overruns of US$2.9 million. The
Project Completion Report and the Performance Audit found the project had
not succeeded in demonstrating the viability of either beef or sheep farms
in the Kalahari Desert but had helped to focus attention on land policy and
the socio-economic motivation of pastorialists. Also, the need for a
larger and more geographically diversified abattoir capacity was revealed.
The parastatal formed under the project, the Botswana Livestock Development
Corporation, has been successful in improving marketing opportunities for
small farmers.



- 12 -
36.       The Second Livestock Project was formulated to support the Tribal
Grazing Lands Policy through development of ranches and extension to
benefit small livestock owners, and through strengthening of institutions
and expansion of marketing facilities. The project had mixed success: a
component for providing credit for development of about 100 commercial
ranches was completed a year late; proposed development of 14 grazing units
in areas designated as communal land was largely unsuccessful; effective
project support was given to a new agricultural credit division of the
National Development Bank; and development of trek routes, railway handling
facilities and a ranch management training center was completed
satisfactorily. The primary constraint was the lack of urgency shown by
most livestock producers in obtaining control of a specific grazing area
for commercial development. The above-average rainfall and sufficient
grazing then prevailing offered little inducement for change. The slow
pace of land demarcation, and inconsistency between the goals of TGLP and
the actual zoning of the tribal lands, contributed to the difficulties.
The project's objective of assisting the small herdsmen through communal
grazing schemes was thwarted by a lack of collective agreement on the use
and management of the tribal land grazed by a wide variety of livestock
holders with differing needs and attitudes. However, in the last two years
of the project, a combination of drought and an expanded national cattle
herd began to focus farmers' attention on controlled management of the
grazing resource. Demand for ranches accelerated and the Government, in
the course of its dialogue with the Bank, accepted that initial land z3ning
of the tribal land did not truly reflect its actual use and that a more
thorough land-use planning was essential for the disciplined management of
grazing resources. In addition, it was judged that a more realistic
time-frame would be needed for the full implementation of TGLP, possibly
spanning the next two decades.
Government Policy; Comparative Performance
37.       Despite natural setbacks, the Botswana livestock subsector is one
of the best performing in Africa, and is noteworthy for: (a) consistency
in the export of beef, even though export levels have been below potential;
(b) a high degree of private initiative in the trading and transportation
of cattle; (c) an impressively wide-reaching cooperative movement among
farmers; (d) effective support services, including excellent veterinary
care; and (e) Government enterprise in developing export markets and
anticipating particular market needs. The Government's Tribal Grazing
Lands Policy (para. 25) is one of the most comprehensive land reform
policies on the continent, although the Government recognizes that the
policy has in the past been implemented without conviction.
38.       While the Government accepts that it must act more fitmly in
implementing land reform legislation, it believes that state intervention
in the subsector should encourage initiative and traditional cooperation.
Thus the large-scale establishment of syndicated or state ranches found in
some other African countries has not been attempted in Botswana, although
farmer groups volunteering to take up joint leaseholds for commercial
ranching are given priority. It is important now for Botswana to direct
its underlying capacity for good, pragmatic management toward a more



- 13 -
rational and balanced development of the grazing lands. The Government in
particular needs to overcome considerable difficulties in developing means
of assistance to the smaller herdsmen.
Bank Livestock Strategy for Botswana
39.       During an extended dialogue, the views of the Government and Bank
on livestock development have converged in regard to most of the important
aspects, culminating in a joint Bank-Government Livestock Subsector
Memorandum published in September 1983 (Report No. 4665-BT). The
underlying conclusion of the study is that the original objectives of the
Tribal Grazing Lands Policy are even more valid now than when they were
established in 1975, and merit more systematic implementation. The Bank
has emphasized the need to arrest range degradation; improve management of
commercially-grazed herds; and begin a process of reducing inequality of
income by improved production facilities for small herdsmen and by greater
support for mixed subsistence farmers. We have stressed the importance of
pursuing TGLP's specific aims, complementing accelerated commercial ranch
development with assistance to small herdsmen; although the Bank accepts
that many imponderables - political, social and technical - stand in the
way of devising assistance packages for community grazing. Because of the
complex and long-range nature of livestock reform, the Bank envisages
continued assistance to the subsector in its lending program and economic
and sector work. The Bank also expects to continue to assist the
institutional strengthening and cost-recovery of the National Development
Bank, which is the main channel for credit for ranch development and for
small-scale cattle-owners and arable farmers. The Bank will continue to
emphasize the need for abattoir capacity as an essential ingredient of an
overall policy package for herd off-take, and the Government has been
responsive to our advice in this respect (para. 33). We propose to
continue our dialogue on the question of taxation, pricing and
cGst-recovery. reinforced by the project's technical assistance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The proposed project has evolved from the Bank's dialogue with
the Goverment on livestock-policy reform and the findings of the joint
Government-Bank subsector memorandum (para. 39). The project was appraised
in September 1984. The appraisal mission included a wildlife conservation
specialist, and consulted a number of international and bilateral agencies
involved in environmental protection in Botswana. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. between April 15 and 19 1985. The Botswana delegation
was led by Mr. Baledzi Gaolathe, Permanent aecretary, Ministry of Finance
and Development Planning. Annex III contains Supplementary Project Data.
Project Area
41.       The land use reforms proposed by the project will be carried out
in four major cattle grazing districts (Ngamiland, Central, Kweneng and
Southern) which cover about 35 million hectares or 60 percent of Botswana's



- 14 -
total land area; and most ranch development under the project will take
place in those districts. Much of this range consists of Kalahari sand
covered with grass and scrub. Erratic rainfall averages between 650 mm and
250 mm a year depending on the area. Almost 70,000 farm families (80
percent of Botswana's total) live in the area, which carries about 2.1
million cattle (70 percent of the national herd).
Project Objectives and Rationale
42.       The growth of the cattle industry, as a major source of foreign
exchange, is crucial to Botswana's overall development. It also directly
affects the welfare of a large proportion of the population. Although over
the last 10 years commercial sales from the cattle industry have expanded
to utilize fully the country's abattoir capacity, there is growing evidence
of serious overgrazing and range degradation, threatening the long-term
viability of the industry. Conservation of the grazing resource can only
be achieved if overgrazing on the tribal lands, which account for about 65
percent of total land area, can be reversed. To achieve this,
market-oriented producers (whether individuals or groups) will have to be
linked to demarcated grazing areas, and free access to the remaining, truly
communal, areas must be limited to and controlled by the remaining
subsistence or very small-scale producers. If properly implemented, the
Government's Tribal Grazing Lands Program could achieve sustainable output
of fodder from the grazing resources, which in turn would lead to an
expanded level of livestock production. However, it is evident that TGLP
needs to establish a sound planning base before the majority of the
country's farmers can be brought into the program.
43.       Simultaneously, the Government has accepted that it must tackle
two other important facets of livestock development: the need to assure
adequate processing capacity (para. 33) to handle the increased offtake
which would come from better range management, and the need to refine the
package of fiscal and pricing incentives and disincentives to discourage
the overgrazing of the range and stimulate production of quality meat its
export markets demand. Trek route development is also necessary and, with
overall improvement in marketing, there should be less holding of cattle
beyond their optimal selling rate, less reduction of weight and quality
during shipment to the abattoirs and less pressure on grazing lands. To
help address these needs, the project would strengthen the Government's
institutional capability to promote more effective utilization of the
rangeland resource and further development of improved livestock production
systems.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would:
(a) improve land-use planning and administration by creating
four profesionally-managed District Planning Units,
strengthening existing Land Boards, improving overall
planning coordination and training, improving monitoring of
the range ecology, and strengthening wildlife management;



- 15 -
(b) provide credit through che National Development Bank and
provide skilled management for establishing commsrolal and
group ranches under the Tribal Grazing lands Policy;
(c) develop community-grazing initiatives through special
extension support;
(d) upgrade major trek routes;
(e) provide technical assistance for project management; and
(f) provide technical assistance for analysis of livestock
pricing, cost-recovery and taxation policies.
Detailed Features
45.       Land-use Planning.  The Land Boards (para. 26) have not been
successful in achieving a comprehensive approach to land zoning and
allocation of leaseholds, mainly because of a lack of professionalism and
the fact that the district-wide advisory groups serving then have become
too unwieldy and susceptible to local political influence. Therefore, the
project would replace the advisory group with a District Planning Unit in
each of the four major districts covered by the project. The units would
establish consistent and comprehensive land-use plans for each district
involved, to be considered by the national Land Development Committee and
approved by the Land Boards, which would implement the plans - through the
granting and administration of leaseholds, including collection of rents
and surveillance of movements of cattle and stocking rates. Any disputes
over land-use decisions could be referred to the Minister of Local
Government and Lands. The Planning Units would be professionally staffed
hy the project, wMch would finance 10 land-use and spatial planning
experts and 16 technical and other sraff. Technical staff of the Land
Boards would also be strengthened.
46.       To ensure that the district operations reflect national land
tenure policies, a Coordinator of Land Use Planning would be appointed to
the Ministry of Local Government and Lands to work closely with the
Assistant Minister recently appointed to focus on rural development.
In-service and postgraduate training at all levels of the land-planning
process would be coordinated by a project-financed training officer. The
monitoring of range ecology, which is essential for determining changes in
the carrying capacity of different range locations, would be strengthened
through technical assistance to establish a more effective methodology and
to draw up terms of reference to enable the Range Ecology Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture to be more useful operationally. The planning
infrastructure developed through the project would be self-sustaining and
is intended to serve as the primary means of land-tenure reform far beyond
the life of the project. The planning operation would be complemented by
strengthening of wildlife management (see Environment, para. 63).
47.       Ranch Development.  Credit would be provided to about 130 farmers
who would be granted commercial-ranch leaseholds according to the Tribal
Grazing Lands Policy. Most of the areas to be allocated have already been



- 16 -
zoned satisfactorily and are consistent with the Government's land tenure
goals. The credit would be for erecting perimeter and other fencing for
the ranches, developing water reticulation and constructing buildings.
Farmers themselves would be required to finance the provision of a borehole
on any newly-created ranch that lacks one, as past experience has shown
that when borehole financing is included in credit packages some farmers
have failed to follow up water-development with other infrastructure
improvements. Supplemental credit would be provided to less-experienced
farmers to employ a trained ranch manager. Each credit package would be
devised according to need and to the farmer's experience during joint
discussions between the recipient, a ranch extension officer and the
National Development Bank (NDB), through which project credit would be
channelled. Apart from the reorganization and strengthening of NDB
proposed under the recently-approved Second DFC Project (para. 32), two
ranch-finance officers would be added to NDB's agricultural credit
division.
48.       Credit would also be provided for group ranches involving a total
of about 80 medium-scale farmers, whose individual cattle-holdings do not
exceed 100 head. Ranches would be started with syndicates of up to 10
members in unwatered, contiguous areas to be allocated through the land-use
process in one of the project's districts, a-id would be given direct
support by a ranch extension officer posted to the district. Credit for
infrastructure would include finance for boreholes. A trained ranch
manager would be employed full-time as a condition of each group credit
package (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 17). The scheme would be
monitored carefully with a view to identifying and overcoming problems
associated with shared responsibility and to making further expansion of
group operations feasible. Managers provided with all NDB credit packages
would be trained through the training center established In the previous
Bank-financed livestock project. Some trained managers who were unable to
find suitable assignments following graduation are currently available for
participation in NDB's ranch credit schemes.
49.       Community-Grazing.  Devising effective assistance for small
herdsmen has proved difficult because of traditional and social
constraints, and a single development model would be unrealistic.
Extension efforts among the communities have been uncoordinated, although a
recently-introduced EEC-financed special program for small livestock owners
has begun to address some of the difficulties. The proposed project will
provide technical assistance to the community livestock development
activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, which will work with the
district planning units and land boards, field extension officers and the
ongoing small livestock-owners program to identify community interest in
disciplined grazing management,and design or adapt suitable assistance
options, possibly in the form of low-cost community-grazing schemes.
Although it is difficult to estimate the extent of such participation, the
project provides for assistance for up to about 800 village families.
50.       Trek Routes.  Major routes used for trekking cattle to the
abattoir would be upgraded by: (a) providing 16 new boreholes to shorten
trekking stages; (b) improving maintenance of existing boreholes; and (c)



- 17 -
fencing water-points to ensure that the boreholes and surrounding grazing
land are used as intended by cattle being trekked and not by local
livestock producers.
51.       Pricing and Taxation.  The project would provide two spectalists,
attached to the Project Coordination Unit, to devise a more rational system
of incentives and disincentives in the subsector, particularly In regard to
pricing, taxation and cost-recovery, with a view to enhancing resource
management. In particular, such a system should encourage the production
of quality beef for the more lucrative markets and discourage overgrazing
of communal areas by cattle of inferior quality; without, however,
disregarding questions of equity. The Government will review with the Bank
by December 31, 1987, the findings of the experts and to draw up a phased
program for implementing agreed recommendations (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.03).
52.       Project Coordination.  Technical assistance for general project
management is described under Project Execution (paras. 56 and 57).
Cost and Financing
53.       The project's total costs, including contingenices, are estimated
at US$17.8 million, of which US$12.1 million (or 68 percent) are foreign.
Taxes and duties are likely to be insignificant. Capital costs for civil
works, equipment and vehicles and other capital items account for 21
percent of base costs; rLnch credit for 41 percent; and technical
assistance, consultancies and training for 19 percert. Incremental
recurrent costs (including trek route and other maintenance, salaries,
vehicle operation and office expenses) are included in the project costs
and amount to 19 percent of the total. The base costs of civil works,
equipment and vehicles are calculated on the basis of estimated June 1985
prices. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent for civil
works. Local price contingencies are included at 12 percent for civil
works, equipment and vehicles and 10 percent for local staff and training
through the project period. Foreign price contingencies are included at 5
percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for 1986, and 8 percent for 87, 88 and 89.
54.       The required foreign exchange of US$12.1 million would be
provided by the Bank loan of US$10.7 million, covering 88 percent of
foreign exchange costs and 60 percent of total financing, and by the
Government, which would also finance all local costs. Participating
farmers wouwld contribute about US$0.1 million. The Bank loan would help
finance farm equipment and buildIngs, vehicles, office equipment and
technical assistance. Incremental recurrent costs and some of the costs of
the above items would be financed by the Government. The project is
designed to minimize the fiscal burden on the Government. By the end of
disbursement period, the project's annual incremental recurrent costs to
the Government would be about US$687,000, adding less than one percent to
the total Government annual recurrent expenditure. Some of this amount
would be recovercd through trek-route charges and credit cost-recovery.



- 18 -
Onlending and Interest Rates
55.       The Government would onlend to the National Development Bank
(NDB) US$4.4 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan, plus US$1.7 zillion
of the Government's own contribution, for ranch credit and technical
assistance. The Government would onlend these funds for 25 years at an
interest rate of 10 percent, which is equal to the rate of inflation in
Botswana.  These are the customary terms of loans made by the Government to
its parastatals with the intention of supporting them during a continuing
process of institution-building, financial stabilization and expansion of
activities. NDB would provide credit to farmers for 17 years at an
interest rate of 17 percent for loans above US$28,000 equivalent and 16
percent below this level. These interest rates are positive in real terms,
consistent with Botswana's prevailing interest rate structure and NDB's
other agricultural lending, and sufficient to maintain adequate
profitability. Interest rates would be subject to regular review by
Government and Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 15). NDB
would bear about 9 percent of the foreign exchange risk according to the
Government'3 standard formula for lending to parastatals. As this
arrangement is tantamount to a fee being charged to NDB, it is acceptable
to the Bank. The onlending terms would he described in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, to be executed as a condition of loan
effectiveness (dra't Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)). NDB's debt-equity
ratio will not exceed the 5:1 effective in the ongoing DFC II Project.
Project Execution
56.       General Implementation of the project would be through the
branches of Government normally responsible for the activities concerned.
Overall focus for the operation would be vested in an inter-ministerial
Steering Committee. The project would be executed by a Project
Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture consisting of a Project
Coordinator, an Accountant and general support staff. The Project
Coordinator would act as an executive secretary to the Steering Committee
and work closely with the existing Land Development Committee, which
oversees all land-use decisions. Establishment of the Steering Committee
and employment of the Project Coordinator and the Accountant would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b) and
(c)). The consultancy for strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture's
Range Ecology Unit would be in place by December 31, 1985 (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 9).
57.       Planning Implementation.  The District Planning Units (para. 45)
would be established in phases (two in the project's first year and two in
the second) to avoid adminstrative over-burdening. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Government will issue written instructions through the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands defining the responsibilities of the
planning units and the Land Boards (draft Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(d)). The planning units would be established under the direction of
the newly-created Coordinator of Land-use Planning in the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands, who would ensure that the plans drawn up reflect
national policy. The Land-use Planning Training Officer would f.nction



- 19 -
out of the School of Environmental Sciences of the University of Botswana,
thus taking advantage of faculty skills and existing educational support
services to rural development. The land-use coordinating and training
officers and assigned counterparts would be in place by December 31, 1985,
and the counterparts would replace the technical assistance personnel by
the end of the project's third year (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5,
paras. 3, 4 and 5). Strengthening of Land Boards and the 26 Subordinate
Land Boards would be primarily through provision of technical assistants
trained at the Polytechnical Institute in Gaborone (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, para. 8). The Government will place such technical positions
on the establishment register by April 1, 1986 (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, para. 8). Responsibility for the Ranch Management Training
Center would be vested in the Animal ProducUton Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 16).
58.       Ranch Development.  The National Development Bank (NDB) would be
responsible for the design and management of the credit program for ranch
development. All borrowers would have obtained leases to land in
commercially-zoned areas and ranches should have identifiable and recorded
boundaries. Credit agreements for each ranch development plan would be
signed between NDB and the ranch leaseholder (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, para. 15). Group ranches would be identified by the Ranch
Extension Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture in collaboration with the
District Planning Unit and Land Board in the area concerned (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 17).
Procurement
59.       Procurement would be according to Bank guidelines, as follows:
(a) Orders for vehicles, spare parts and equipment (totaling US$0.6
million) would be bulked as far as possible, and orders of US$200,000
equivalent and above would be subject to international competitive
bidding. The bidding documents would indicate that suppliers will maintain
or agree to maintain an adequate after-sales service and inventory of spare
parts. (b) Orders for vehicles, spare parts and equipment (US$0.4 million)
that cannot be bulked in packages of US$200,000 would be procured in
accordance with existing local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. (c) As civil works construction, including housing, offices,
boreholes, fencing and rehabilitation of existing infrastrucutre (totaling
US$2.1 million), would be too small and scattered to attract international
interest, procurement would be by contracts awarded following
locally-advertised bidding subject to the same conditions as (b) above,
although foreign firms would be entitled to compete. Procurement of minor
civil works would be by force account, subject to prior Bank approval. The
project would finance a total of 288 manmonths of technical assistance and
consultancies, to be recruited according to Bank guidelines (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, Section II).
Disbursement
60.       The Bank loan would be for:  (i) 50 percent of total expenditures
for civil works (including offices, houses and trek route development)



- 20 -
(US$0.9m); (ii) 60 percent of total expenditures for establishment of
community grazing units (US$1.2u); (lit) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90
percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally with respect
to vehicles, spare parts and equipment (US$0.7m); (iv) 60 percent of
amounts disbursed for ranch development sub-loans by NDB (US$3.1m); (v) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures for
technical assistance and training to MLGL and MOA (US$2.7m); and (vi) an
unallocated amount of US$2.1 million, representing a portion of the
contingencies on the above categories and transferable to them as
required. There would be retroactive financing of up to US$600,000 for
ranch credit under NDB's continuing program, covering the period from
September 1, 1984, to signing of the Bank loan, and provided according to
the terms and conditions of the proposed project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.       The Government and Bank would review annually a report on the
project's progress to be submitted by the Steering Committee (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 1). The Committee in turn would receive
periodic reports from the Project Coordinator. The National Development
Bank's ranch credit operations would be included in the annual review. As
part of the review process, progress of the community-grazing program would
be assessed annually so that additional funds can be diverted to it if
community demand is greater than anticipated.
Accounts and Audit
62.       NDB's accounts are audited competently by a firm of international
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Local Government and Lands are
satisfactory, and audited by the Auditor-General. The Government has
assured the Bank that: (a) separate accounts for the project would be
maintained by the two ministries and NDB, consistent with accepted
accounting practice; (b) independent accountants, selected by the
Government and acceptable to the Bank, would audit all project accounts
annually; and (c) the Government would make available audited accounts and
reports within six months after the close of the fiscal year (draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.02).
Environment
63.       Range degradation.  Range degradation was evident in Botswaua
even before the onset of the four-year drought, which has served to
heighten the Government's concern for preserving a major national asset and
focus attention on the environmental goals of the Tribal Grazing Lands
Policy. The proposed project will give direct support to these goals
through: (a) more rational land-use planning, which would take into
account the ecological condition of different range locations and propose
appropriate stocking rates; (b) the accelerated establishment of fenced
commercial ranches, thus discouraging unrestricted grazing of the tribal
lands and providing an incentive to ranchers to improve the enclosed areas;
and (c) the development of programs to help small communal herdsmen achieve



- 21 -
more disciplined grazing. These initiatives will be co,mplemented by the
proposed expansion of abattoir capacity, which would facilitate greater
offtake from the herd.
64.       Wildlife Conservation.  National parks and game reserves account
for 17 percent and cattle-free zones another 13 percent of Botswana's total
land area. Thus, wildlife has protected access to almost a third of the
country - a proportion which is among the highest in the world. Wildlife
is also found, during migration, on the traditional tribal grazing lands,
where it encounters an extensive system of cordon fences. These fences
enable the cont-ol of cattle movements, and to a lesser extent the control
of buffalo movements, so that outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease can be
contained. Without the cordon system, the entire livestock export industry
could be halted by an outbreak of the disease. In most of the country,
these fences are not a significant threat to most wildlife. In fact, a
buffalo fence immediately south of the Okavango Delta serves to keep cattle
out of a large area reserved for wildlife while preventing buffalo from
carrying foot-and-mouth disease into important cattle-grazing areas. Most
cordon fencing is in the eastern quarter of Botswana, where human
settlement is concentrated and wildlife scarce. The most problematical
existing fence is the Knke Cordon, which forms the northern border of the
vast Central Kalahari Game Reserve and blocks wildlife migration to better
watered areas during dry periods. The Government is in the process of
drilling four boreholes in the reserve as an experiment to determine
whether a self-sufficiency in water would discourage the migrations. If
the method in effective, more boreholes will be sunk. The Government's
initiatives for environmental protection have gained momentum in recent
years. Inter-governmental machinery has been created to facilitate these
efforts, a major seminar has been held in Botswana to inform a broad
spectrum of interest about the Government's goals, and a number of studies
and technical assistance projects have been carried out with UNEP
assistance. For the future, the Government intends to give priority to tne
strengthening and restructuring of the Department of Wildlife; formulate
(with help of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature) a
National Conservation Strategy; and carry out a variety of studies and
projects covering many aspects of environmental management and protection
which the EEC and other donors, including Sweden and the United Kingdom,
have proposed. Because of the Bank's continuing interest in the livestock
subsector and irrigation in Botswana, and its desire to be assured that
adequate mitigating actions are being taken to protect wildlife and its
habitat, the Government has agreed to keep the Bank informed during
supervision of the proposed project of progress in implementing the various
aspects of the Government's environmental program, and of the status of the
donor financing of the various studies and implementation of their
recommendations. As part of the project, assistance for restructuring of
the Department of Wildlife will help provide an institutional focus for the
various ongoing and proposed environmental activities (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 10).



- 22 -
Benefits
65.      The project's proposals fir land-use planning would have a
far-reaching impact on the development and sustainability of Botswana's
grazing lands and the strengthening of the goals of the Tribal Grazing
Lands Program, and would form the basis for the eventual involvement of
most of the country's 58,000 cattle owners. Institutionally, much-needed
coordination would be achieved among the various Government agencies
concerned with livestock and rural development and environmental
protection, particularly in ensuring that national policies and objectives
are understood and implemented in the districts. The project is expected
to provide direct benefits to about 130 commercial ranchers granted
leaseholds under the Tribal Grazing Lands Policy; about 80 medium-scale
ranchers forming groups; and up to 800 subsistence herdsmen who would
participate in community-based programs. Exports would benefit from an
increase in the production and quality of beef. At full development,
incremental tonnage of beef produced as a direct result of project
activities would be about 2,600 tons a year (2,200 tons of this total from
the ranches and the rest from reduction in cattle weight-loss during
trekking).  Although the project would immediately benefit only a bwall
proportion of small livestock owners (many of whom are being assisted
through credit provided by the ongoing Bank-financed DFC II Project), it
would give timely assistance to the Government's efforts of devising ways
- in a difficult traditional and social environment - to support this
group of farmers, who would also be protected by the project's initiatives
for enclosing large, free-moving commercial herds. Likewise, equity would
be served by the pilot scheme fot overcoming problems associated with group
management of ranches by medium-scale farmers. The range environment would
benefit from the project-supported enclosure of land and from the
Government's proposals to increase abattoir capacity (thus stimulating herd
offtake) as well as the project's emphasis on better ranch tanagement.
Formulation of a national strategy for wildlife management and conservation
would be enhanced by the proposed technical assistance. The economic rate
of return, calculated over 30 years and based on benefits from the ranching
and trek route components, is estimated at 16 percent.
Justification for Bank Assistance
66.      The Bank is justified in continuing to assist livestock
development in Botswana because the subsector is crucial to the country's
economic development and the welfare of a large proportion of the
population. Both the Government and Bank have learned from the problems
encountered by the two previous livestock projects, from the gradually
improved implementation of the second project and tie extensive dialogue
that evolved from the process. There is now a mutual understanding that
the broad policy framework lacking from the previous projects is necessary
for future development of the subsector. The main structures for such a
framework are supported by the project's initiatives, while the Bank's
continued lending for livestock would enhance the ongoing dialogue on the
complex pricing and taxation issues.



- 23 -
Risks
67.       (a) The continuation of drought poses the highest risk,
especially with regard to farmers' reluctance to borrow funds for ranch
development. Howev-er, because of the better range-management proposed, the
project ranches would be able to minimize the effect of drought. Also, it
is historically unlikely that drought will occur throughout the project
period and over the wide geographical area involved. (b) An outbreak of
foot-and-mouth disease could affect benefits by limiting beef exports.
This risk is diminished by the high quality of Botswana's veteriniary
services, which can respond quickly to an emergency, and by an improvement
in vaccination services since the last outbreak. (c) There are also
significant political and socio-economic risks. Implementation of
controlled grazing and demarcation of rangeland represents a fundamental
(though already initiated) change from traditional practices. Inevitably,
localized difficulties in reaching accord on implementing land-use plans
will come up. However, the Government's political commitment to the
program, and the significant support given by the project itself, would
help teduce the risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Repubic of
Botswana, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the 'oan are listed in Section III of Annex
III cf the repcrt. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan
Agreemenc are.  %. execution of a Subsidiary Loau Agreement between the
Government and the hational Development Bank; (ii) establishment of the
Project Steering Committee; (iii) employment of the Project Coordinator and
Accountant; and (iv) issue of Government instructions on the revised
operations of the District Planning Units and the Land Boards.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1985



-24 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BOT1A4A               - SOCIAL IEDUCATORS D4TA SUT
3TMWARA                            R ENCE ROPS CU_IMTD AVUEGE) L
HOST               (HSTT BRRN  STIMA) T b)
inotk.    iCDo&          E         MIDDLLE INC1E          MIDDLE  NOON
E     TITELk   AmRICA s. oF SAILUA   N. ArIIC   HID EAST
sAM CTIdURAuD q. us)
TOTAL                              600.4      600.4       600.4
ACRICULTURAL                      424.7       439.7       453.6
oW  MRCAWITA (DUl)                   100.0       190.0      970.0           1112.9                   1146.6
Umo     tX_tWru   F  CWllS 
(KILOGRS or OIL EQUIVALENT)       137.0       251.0       337.0           529.0                    622.1
POIMIATIN T aN  AL mnunc
POPUILAfON.HID-TZAR (THOUSAN)     445.0       577.0      998.0
URAN OPIuIATLON (R OF TOTAL)        1.7        9.3        21.7             29.7                    46.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUIATION IN MEAM 200o CHILL)                            1.S
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                              5.6
rOPULATION IEUTUM                                         1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       0.7         1.0         1.6            53.8                     36.3
PER SQ. KM. ACtl. LAND            1.0         1.3         2.1           111.5                    461.7
POPULATlON ACE STRUCTRE CE)
0-14. YIS                        43.9        8.7        50.1            45.4                     43.6
15-64 nIS                        51.4        48.5        4.7             51.7                     33.1
65 SD AMVE                        2.7         2.8         2.5             2.9                      3.3
POPULATION CRO11 RATE (C
TOTAL                             2.1         2.6         4.3             2.8                      2.8
URBAN                             18.1       19.8        11.2             5.2                     4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PEP THOUS)       31.7        Se 2        44.3            47.0                    40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (lMR THOUS)       20.4        1;t.9       11.3            15.2                     11.5
CRUSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1         3.2         3.2             3.2                     2.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..          ..        11.3 Ic
USERS CZ OF  RIE  OMN)             ..         ..           ..              ..                    22.2
VOOD ID EXrITION
lNDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      91.0       96.0         73.0            91.6                    97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REqUIRSEENTSI     :00.0       94.0        85.0            96.2                    110.8
PROTEINS (.Z..S PER DAT)         82.e        76.0        64.0            56.7                    70.1
OF MICH AAL A  PULSE            40.0       37.0        34.0 Ic         17.0                     17.8
HILO (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         22.6        18.7        13.3            13.7                    14.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      51.5        55.5        60.6            51.7                    57.5
INFANT MINT. RATE (PER THOUS)     114.6       100.1        79.9           102.7                   101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        29.0        45.0 Id         33.6                     59.7
U13A                                ..       71.0        95.0 7;r        54.1                    54.5
RURAL                                        26.0        39.0.7i         27.3                     38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULTION)
TOTAL                               ..        ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
POPULRATION PER PRSIClAN        22230.0    14070.0       9680.0 Id      11948.3                  4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          4790.0 /a  1140.0       1250.07?        2244.9                  1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            440.0      350.0       340.0 If        986.9                    632.9
URAN                                ..        ..          0.0o 7        368.7                    545.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      4230.0 7?       4012.1                   2313.3
DIHISSIONS PER NOSPITAL ED           ..        15.3        27.0 /d           ..                    26.2
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..         5.0/.
URM                                 ..         ..           8
RURAL                              ..          ..         5.D  
AVERAE N0. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBMN                               ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS T0 ELECT. (S O DWULLINCS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..          ..              ..                     46.2
URBAN                               ..         ..          ..              ..                     77.7
RURAL                               ..         ..          .-              ..                     16.1



-25 -                                             AURM  I
Page 2 -of 5
190       t ork    Is:=           An= 3. 0 "mm    W. AR=I   W.D 3a?
12JUl3 33 1.WI 11110
PZIMT   TOTL                       4.0         sl.0       102.0             91.0                      U.S
NM2                      MO.        Is.0         94.0             90.5                    101.5
sWL1                    41.0        73.0        110.0             736                      75.6
3couNA   SOVL                       1.     .0  *.e          1.0             17.4                     45.0
mm                       S.0         L.o         21.0             1.7                     5323
VWA                      1.0         7.0         21.0             14.3                     31.0
VOATSON.L CS OF NOONOW)              4.2        10.4         7.0              5.3                      10.3
FUPZL-11A0 RATIO
no=                      ~~~~~~31.0   34.0        30.0              33.6                     30.3
NoomU                             12.0        15.0        16.0             24.3                      23.1
ALT LITIRAC! uAn  (S)               20.0                     3 ..  35.0      35.6                      43.5
cmm-oi                                                                                                     1.
PAShUia  CAR/TNOUBAD PO0              2.9         3.1         3.7             20.7                      17.0
MaIO uaznmoa w                        4.7        34.7        F.0             LO0.D                     13U.
TV UIVZUI/        m  po0               *                        "              1s.1                     46.1
N A11M     (*WLY  0311
INTZIT") CIUTlN
3  TIOUIJI PCIUL .                   ..        22.5         13.3            17.2           3      l     .2
CIUNtA AINUAL ATUWI ZI TA              .,         0.2         0.1              0.3                       1.7
TOTAL LUI YOM  CtOU)                227.0       270.0       406.0
314A1Z (Pl13T)                     43.8        32.6         31.1            33.8                      10.;
A03XCUL!UhR tS(13133)              92.0        37.0        73.3             57.1                      42.4
SIDIUSI!! (11101)                   3.0         4.0         7.7             17.4                     17.9
PARTICIPATIOl lA7  (13uz03K)
TOTAL                              50.9        46.7         41.3            36.3                      26.3
mmZ                                53.2        47.7        43.3             47.6                      43.4
PARI                               48.9        43.9        40.4             25.1                       L.3
ESCONWC LA   .Dr3NG lATD              1.0         1.1         1.3              1.4                       1.6
uncutvz  OF P31 AU   IECQI
DEzrE  ST
Ban=32 01 30U31S                     ..        28.1          ..
I!1   20 v ZZONilDIDS               ..        60.3 d        .                 ..
LOIEST 202 CY WIDUU                  ..         1.671
S  40201 R  IuULDU                   ..         7.6
10S T!  -
ESTDIaX    A3SOLUU 10131    sK
LEVCL (US PER CAIA)
UnAM                                 ..          ..       286.0            525.3                     276.8
RRAL                                 ..         ..        154.0            249.0                     177.2
ZSTDIATED IlLATI   lORY! IICR
LEVE  (USS P   CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         .,        303.0            477.4                     402.6
RUAL                                 ..         ..        303.0            186.0                     386.9
LSTITD POP. 310 ABSOLunE
POVERTY INCD   LEVEL (C)
UXRU.AN                              ..         ..         40.0 A             ..                        *-
RURAL                                ..         ..         55.0  I            ..
. NOT AVAILAB
NOT APPLIGABLE
NOTIS
/a  g row  avenes for such Indtcator mma populetto-uaftbted. ar1thtc _m. Cn weraC          e of coetrie  a.. eho
IndLcator. depnds an avalability of date and I  Mot U%1fer_.
A    11rroAs otbevLa nt d. "Daet for 1960" raf at to M  Year betwe  159 _ad 1961; Rta folr 1970" betwn  1969 and
1971; and data for "bet RAcent strtae." batwun 1960 Dd 1962.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /o 1962; /f 1976; .L 1978; &  Pdior to 1965; /A 1971-72. eco, mcaLly active population.
JUNE. 1964



33  1334   343   m1  --van""4  .3339.....q .
Al4~   1  135    1334    'n.s333 ?43        -naS    am     A. 03..wd
- u.40            d * db1.    W.I   5153  -33  3Sw  'p.3  394031. a...
fta p3333     3.3 A   31. .lan           ai=  q   1-3.  I *33133 3333q
P3.333   5w4J  91*  a4933.   4
matan                                                                          an    u. '519149  33333  343353 q-                      43-    3- 3
n.Sin    Pd .1 .111-I  P"p1433- l.u  --I  -93A1-423.aj3.I-                                                                       T.39.   _3334   w4h3 i4.a
N.  W     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNOZPW M-513.3  3533aiS*33  3.344  f "-.33-a3  43
9.-. 33453-349 -   31  343   44  33 53an,          3                             '339 141        3355 Is3  133q33-JI   334  '53I--I P1I9-3-43P
~.' .a-aa-      g.      mi-,n-'33 .3.-.P              llll3                            53       4'*q-3.   3.34533  3.3 -- .,.In 3345 '-34
53.1193~~~~~~~~~~                                                                -d51.33934   -3    3    1"3-3    3a~   1339j*.44   314     35   3    1 5333431333*33   s
D9.1   --I I.-                                                                            M~~~~~~~~~~3'  551553~   m3 9   .3   ....... lflt 5  3339"a
P.,                                              m-P]                       ..    -I.~~~'3939-  3135  .31344  Sq n. ,ui. _ -1.C.-u *A    33".34
mumiaii30                                                           '539331P.    a.1'.9I-l 1              P3533m9 am-m
.1. A. ~         ~         5343   3~3  333593  3I.                         3   1535.P~33
'(9          ft."0  -3   vm.333..3       t4    5'l.l  41   33,3    .3'133 '5333499335334
33-3.5  33-3 32-3 I    '1 A ' .1333    p33dd  S Al .4  a33l..dej  A.3                                     t.3aa*.au3    A3S35533.  3  !5311 
WP"_   .1   1--ddl ftor-                  Pdw~~'33.  tIelP393   3  333'933    313  34   3'ym                                        ....-..un  .3 =
53  S133    '353 .=!J.-,=,. '335 . 9  .4  4_9  -, lI3w. z          39u                       . 54    "133I'.333 .199*..-                   43   *   331   3333
..  'ale.. an, 'cal 9334.5 431 d 3333   . asa.a.3   .3  ..j'IS    p    uai   53  .53W    ''3    .4  l333333" p
pa tu3- '333..3 "~lS31   1 3333  3391- TflT3.l4U                               33J33*534a 3.9u   'l               -33V  3-3   3        33'3    3
__1                                     =P.~~~~3 3 '    13 3'  3sld..is.3333  3  33334
Si v-    -P                                                                                 r"W-1-1~~~~~~* p3-3  33333' 'i34    ~*9.'5  34:39-9l- 3-"133.
"3333  313.                            9_4 3          3334     333913"  55.33lf   -fInd311
3.  33 33.33* 33    1.~~~334'533'!344 Pl3"-, 1--.-                                                                                                 '.3433-
PIS4     313- 33 rn-,                                                                                                                                 ISwqri3ra e 103333   u.    -m s.343  '   -33343353  5
*In"3-3  333 3 3  503  3 i  4339  sq~3l3~43.9  . 3933  )1  -91933333  31334 '433349 -351-1 3S 33
933  3  i  .35   uas   31334  3  3ua4  P34   .3343L.
$33933143 3 93339   33343-  133.15 l~3~* 119  3 33.5'31                  33  '3333353  5313  394.3  334-33  531.5  11.  *3514,
Ou  33   -   3 (.31*$ JanqI 3-3 .nLsssc *."..                 .'54...-33   33.344..u.p.t.   9  3  r,u4 5I3~"3'4   .P-3 .-
'333353  an33343  1 .33333354      14.33   93  3-3334 3  3.4"3  3133.3-  3.43q3l9 ~'  WI   3.'.y    331 3313913513334
31   U,      33$33993   533345333   3   394  533                                                                              33   3393"3i33f)'33
M11l9qa    33.33a-4  4-)34~93.9   3l3333.333-19   3"9                                                       4.33   1~9-(...e34   5141335
ianan3~~~ 3345333-3             '0~~~3~~~'-1                                           ..... ...j355              '33  94
3.3~~~~~~~~~~t-                                                                                             ..133  '-..35333.....d31*194....533  4'  leS'P3 
3.3  333-   45   0314      -3 u'' 311-  3.5334453143341  5   33333   3  333i3  43-33
p-   - .d-           WNIII~ ~ ~ ~~3.3132                                    3.33.333  '~~~9   . 53343 354443335333 .15
35 93113333 5333p3'l 1334 - 433.933313 5.3  4-334 ' 51114 4313.n3.33314                                           '3319 0*51 '93333
'333333`3.5-3  3   l..Pp  S       333-4.. 55.333  .I3'."*l.u31533  3)343   59    1'35  1
334434*9                        dA-134 333   '33 .P.%3'4393  393.             '    34            151 :-I I----    33  1335dd31"l3    53   '
wdl3IS333l-335-la.33431  34533u3l !P-5 513.333-l4.-P.3s5'3,~p-                                                      I     -      I.  393.33    334l35T5l3)l.5l3433.3
aq PR)-1 wodod -di 1.m. A       '9393.3433w 3354.35                            33  '355  93433333  .35333   3   3   l3    n   S
533    134a3"           v-93   439.3 A -  '..-33.P-  '14.31  '93343531    339333  '. .s". 33  43                                     _s 13*
midwit333  3 .3344  933444      -Af!.j!. 3aj~   .    3        1~P'1"    .*~~"~~33  3*3    3~93  343333'53
4413-33   31331P3M l3                       a13113      3.43333                                  45.31.."3A..543  31  3314313s333394533.1343    33t 13134I
*1an  3-  313p  11-  3134 - W 3 13p1 333S.1              - A   P *_   ft".   S333.S3  1334343-33                           33  33.19a P.II      .J.   II3 .3553-  5 j WfliS34.
- 3434  3. '343  '3393    ~~3l3I   53.   o 3 ;.'3)  3="3Ta4      d3343             314AS    it) 353"43`33 1115.45 d 355I 3S..w. 343.33 Al A31   W-1153   -3333    L
1343321-   l  4  4.- )45 Ad    53 Ms3P... M35  3154 3pi."3.3is 34   33                333   .  35 "S3p5   AI"313353  -53333  35.3334
13-130u.319)3  3-  3.31'333i .33334333333333Ji3'      l34        -111:5151133O 31 3ia
0  O'svl ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~55141   3333533'  393394                                                                           55993   3  .34   13133133  33
33RK      3-331-33    .    ~                   33439'3153   33   -                                       5393  3 54343,3u53*3.155lj3                                      *



- 27 -
A-= I
M UWATM
GMS NAW.IGL P          IN 198283                         IJALX I=Cl QMZ G  m CX ouz Prim)
US$ Mln.                                  198/83
GNP t Ma*t   Pdr                818.0                                      +1L0
CRm DtEc  krivmbit              282.9
own Nationul SONvI              124.7
Oirnt Acxit BdIM                 +1.9                    ..
Eq2o!tu of Glbod, Ws            748.3                                      +26.3
lpit   Qoodx, WS                802.5                                      40.1
aiw    IAM FPlM AM            Vah-Added             labor ForceA          VA. Per WOr*W
F-seirr 11rTI=rD  o$ ?M    x                       WX   x                M$ 2dAO
Agd.lte                       67       7.4          0.300   62.4            223    11.8
Jdstry                       402     44.2           0.034    7.1          11,824   625.6
Sewvicm                      440     48.4           0.147   30.5          2 993   1584
Total/Averap                                      0.481    0            -       *1iw
___3                                                 Ceml Glt
(P. )an.)            Z E 
1983/84    19834    L98D/81 - 19-O83
Oxrwt Resmpts                             514.8       51.6            40.1
Oiremt Expi stm                           272.6       27.3            26.5
O'rt  Surphu                              242.2       24.3            13.6
capital Eaqmdbi                           136.3       13.7            16.5
ThceeraAsaistwce (net)                     34.3        3.4             3.9
mmE!, a      aT Iad PBIS                    198D     1981      1982     1983    1984b
P ahEtmU End-Period)-
1mwandx QLi n mI  y                        236.9    226.5    245.8    321.1   366.1
Bik Credit to Pubic Setr (05t)c            -92.1    -67.4   -15.9  -185.0  -353.2
Bak Ceedit to Private Sector                97.3    144.4    148.4    177.1   239.3
(Percentage orTc N? )ers)
and  uasi MneY as Z OfMP                   3L9      29.4      31.8     43.0    29.1
Gmral Prcle  1odex (Nust 1980 - 100)       100.0    116.0    130.2    142.5   153.7
An,al percetqe dhxae In:
U.k Credt to Pubic Sector                  -17.3    +26.8    -57.1    -74.7  -90.9
Bak C!it to Private Sector                  12.7     484       2.8      19.3    35.1
a labor force is defind as pem       of 14 years and over ewged either In fAmly  erI*dttze or in
cah employment. Mir st w         in Soau  Afrlca are ecud.
b As of ed N.er.
c .1iudss prsotatals.
!.It vaiLablee.                                             ,EAIS
Not applicable.                                                                 April 1985



- 28 _
Pae 5 of 5
IRAtE PAM1 AND CAPIL FLQA
bEIQWIDISE End~S
PIANCE OF PA~W=                                                                 (AIVWEMZ 1982-84)
1981    1982    1963    1984                               u$ mi.  Z
OtlosIES)                        --
lrpits of Godf                   403.1   464.2   640.7  662.8       Mea and ma prodc         64.9   11.1
lmports of (oodsb                690.0   584.2   l5.6  552.9       Diasnds                 376.6   64.4
Balance of Trade (deficit--)    -286.9  -120.    -25.1  109.8       Copper/ntdmel            58.7   10.0
All other dcmodities     84.7   14.5
Nt-factor Services (net)         -79.3   -68.8   -79.3 -162.7c        Total                 585.0  100.0
Factor Services (net)             21.1    11.6   -69.1    so
Net Transfers                    139.6   12D.0   125.2  106.7
Balance an Qaret Akcamt         -205.5   -7.2       1N.9                 AEtL IHT, EEC. 31, 1983
US$ Hln.
Direct Foreign Investnt          112.6    52.8    48.6
Net MLT BorrcvIrg                 22.6    52.9    24.5    ..        Public Debt, ici. guaranteed   23D.2
Dlsbjrs.nlts                    24.6    56.6    35.7    ..        N-Giaranteed Pcivate Debt
ATortization                     2.0     3.7    11.1    ..          tl Qtstandlrg & MIshrsed   230.2
Capital Gmts                       ..      ..       .       .
Otier Capital (net)                9.2    -4.9    45.1    .. iB  SVE RATIO FOt I983e
Increae in Reserves  -)           61.1   -43.5  -I2D.1    ..                                         _
Pblic Debt,  il. guaranteed     3.1
Gross Reserves (e  year)         271.1   304.9   419.2  553.9       N             PrivateDebt
Total Outstaodfrg & Disbnrsed   3.1
Fuel and pelated Mterials
Tn8ortd                        101.0    96.9    93.0   75.8
of wbich: Petrolem            92.8    88.3    8D.8   68.2         I3D/MA  Im; (Febnuy 28, 1965)
EVorted                           -    -                  -
of which: PLetrletu-                    -  -                                            (Million US$)
Mm MIL
RAaE OF EXWEf                                                       OQtandlng & iashirsed  133.2  15.9
1979  1960  1981  1982  1983   1984            1budisbrsed              64.6
-           mcl.
US$1.00  P         0.815 o.777 0.833  1.022 1.096  1.284            UIdishbrsed             197.8  15.9
P 1.00 =US$        1.228 1.287 1.200 0.979 0.912  0.779
a Pecrded astoms statistics adjusted for tlnmtg and aerage.
b p3ye autc= statistics adjusted for valuation (eodisive of duties, inswrace and feight) ad coerage.
c Incudes factor services (net).
d iadjusted trade figur.
e Ratio of debt service to eports of goods and services.
f Awai averages.
Not avaiable                                                                              EAIS
Not applicable.                                                                         April 1985



- 29 -
1I
ImI tA YCP  amUATUU IN amw
A. SrAMOW  C BW    U   AND M&
( at March 31, 1985)
-W1-$ MNlla-
Number   Year    lar-tmr           P__es                          Ek   Mk Th1shuuod
Ten loUS  sod aft creits fully disbmied                          84.07 15.91
1584     1978  satamna         Se,d Ucbn Projec                  8.00            1.53
1828     1980    BDotu.        Seocmd Educat!m Project           10.00           6.78
1941     1981    BAMa           ifth Road Project                17.00           4.71
2057     1982    BDtnma        '1idd  tnxntm                     11.D            4.21
Z209     11983   BltMMa        Bower Project                     32,5D          25.61
2333     1983    ltMa          Thrd Water Supply                22.00            6.32
2384     1984    Batma         Selmd INC                         12.3D          12.27
2413     1984    BDtumna       Family Eelthb                     11.0           11.00
Total                                                       208.37  15.91   72.43
of *'ichas bem repadd                                      17.40  0.87
Total ne outstaidsig                                      190.47 15.04
hADnt sold                                      8.82
of  h hbnbeenrqudd                            8.82         -     -
Total no  beld by RkpMc                                   190.97  15.04
of ubid i s vzrd1bhrsed                                          0.00  72.43
a   e                        lsted in Part A, is described In i    II lI.
b Not yet effective.
e Prior to edwge adjustamets.
Ifrdi 1985



- 30 -
AN r
lPae 2 of 2
B. SIAMM=  CF WC Mnefl1
(as at Marh  31, I)
Lwestmt                                                       IS$ UHlim Bltvaleat
Number   Year  Borrwr          Tnm                                          Total
448-Br    1979  Botmma          1tFnmi
D ot             CoUMY
Coxporatioc                                  -      0.37   0.37
Total Gross Investmets                                   -     0.37   0.37
Ls cPc r4latos temnto,
:    sal.es                                            _      _ 
Total   i helM by 3l                                            0.37   0.37
h%5                                                                       -



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND TENURE AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project      : 3 months
(b)  First Presentation to Bank         : June 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission                  : September 1984
(d)  Negotiations                       : April 1985
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness      : October 1985
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
'i) Government issueg instructions on functions of District
Planning Units and Land Boards (para. 57).
(ii)   Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and
National Development Bank (para. 55).
(iii)   Creation of Project Steering Committee (para. 56).
(iv)   Employment of Project Coordinator and Accountant (para. 56).
(b)  Other Special Conditions
(i)   Trained managers to  be attached to group ranches (para. 48).
(ii)   Government-Bank to discuss follow-up to taxation and pricing
study (para. 51).
(iii)   NDB's debt-equity ratio not to exceed 5:1 (para. 55).



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) Appointment of key land-use officials and counterparts (para.
57).
(v) Establishment of land-board personnel (pars. 57).
(vi)  Ranch Management Training Center to come under Ministry of
Agriculture (para. 57).
(vii) Project ranches to be adequately demarcated, ranch credit to
give preference to groups and credit agreements to be based on
agreed ranch development plans (pars. 58).
(viii) Appointment of range ecology consultant (para. 57).
(ix) Annual review of interest rates (para. 55).



IBRD 1S766
s_   -    ~~~A N fiGJO L A     _-       tR;                   Z A M BIA  /
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT
//tF( X  - }CrO8E  \AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
MA ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     M
___ASMi-}fi-                                        NWW To. PW  _
U.                                .~* ~.y C~. F - . .. W
v-~~~~~U
4.         l Z        tF       %                     JZ            Z  X  ZZ   "          "-    \    |5- r
vrmanmIuaT
?TMWS3TMA  148



