Docmomt of
The World Bank
FOR OFIlClAL USE ONLY
RqeptNo. 12981
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LOAN 2566-BT)
APRIL 21, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloswd without World Bankl authorization.



BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT (NLMLP)
(Loan 2566-BT)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 hectare = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer = 0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer = 0.39 sq. miles = 247 acres
1 kilogram = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton = 2204 pounds
ACRONYMS
BMC         Botswana Meat Commission
DLUP        District Land Use Plans
DLUPU       District Land Use Planning Units
DWNP        Department of Wildlife and National Parks
EEC         European Economic Community
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO/CP    Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GIS         Geographic Information System
GOB         Government of Botswana
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LAC         Livestock Advisory Centres
MFDP        Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MLGLH    Ministry of Local Government and Lands and Housing
NDB         National Development Bank
ODA         Overseas Development Assistance (British)
PCR         Project Comnpletion Report
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RIMU        Rangeland Inventory and Monitoring Unit
TA          Technical Assistance
TGLP        Tribal Grazing Lands Program
FISCAL YEARS
Government: April I - March 31
IBRD: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                      Apri 21, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Botswana
National Land Management and Livestock Project (Loan 2566-BT)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Botswana - National Land
Management and Livestock Project (Loan 2566-BT). Parts I and III were prepared by the Africa
Regional Office, and Part II by the Borrower.
The project built upon the two previous Bank-assisted projects in the livestock sector.
Its principal objective was to strengthen Government's institutional capacity to promote more
effective utilization of the rangeland resources of Botswana through implementation of the Tribal
Grazing Lands Policy, which divided all land into three categories; commercial, communal, or
reserve. The project supported the establishment of local planning units and provided additional
resources and trained staff in the relevant institutions. It also provided funds for development of
trek routes and credit, through the National Development Bank (NDB), for ranch development
and improvements to communal grazing areas. The project was dogged by design problems and
initial progress was slow, primarily because of limited uptake of credit. The project was
restructured in 1989 to increase funding for the institutional components and trek routes, and
steps were taken to restructure NDB and improve its portfolio management.
The PCR did not re-estimate the ERR for the productive components because of
lack of data. The project was extended by two years. The institutional development impact is
rated as modest: the impact of the studies undertaken has been mixed and follow-up has not been
expeditious. Overall, the project outcome is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Sustainability,
dependent on effective follow-up, is considered uncertain.
Part II agrees with the thrust of the PCR and notes a number of shortcomings in the
preparation and appraisal process, including inadequate consultation with beneficiaries.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. An
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT (NLMLP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................                                                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..................... .......................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..............                                                  1
1. Project Identity  .................................................                                             1
2. Background and Sector Context .......................................                                           1
3. Project Objectives and Description  .....................................    2
4. Project Design and Organization   ......................................    3
5. Project Implementation . ............................................  4
6. Project Results and Impact  .             .........................................    5
7. Project Sustainability . .............................................  7
8. Bank Performance    .           .............................................    7
9. Borrower Performance   .             ...........................................                               8
10. Project Relationships .........................                                                               8
11. Consulting Services .........................                                                                 8
12. Project Documentation and Data                      ........................                                  8
13. Lessons Learnt .         ................................................                                     9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..... ..                                      .........   10
14. Project Formulation and Appraisal                   ....................................    10
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



15. Land Use Planning and Management . .............................  10
16. Land Development Division  .............................   11
17. Trek Route .............................    11
18. MOA Extension Services .............................   11
19. Credit .............................   12
20. Project Coordination .............................   13
21. Successor Project .............................   13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .............................  15
TABLES
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credit
Table 2. Project Timetable
Table 3. Cumulative Loan Disbursement
Table 4. Key Implementation Indicators
Table 5A. Project Costs
Table 5B. Project Financing
Table 6. Project Results
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
Annexes 1 and 2: Project Costs
IBRD 18776R



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LOAN 2566-BT)
PREFACE
1.         This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Land Management and
Livestock Project (NLMLP) in Botswana, for which Loan 2566-BT, in the amount of US$ 10.7 million,
was approved on 4 June 1985. The project was restructured in October 1989 when project cost was
reduced by about US$ 3 million but the size of the loan was left unaffected. The Government of Botswana
has requested for the loan closure to be extended to 30 June 1993 so as to enable the Bank to effect
outstanding re-imbursements. It is then expected that the loan will be fully disbursed.
2.          This PCR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (CP). The
report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and information
gathered by the CP mission " which visited Botswana in April/May 1993.
"   F. Bitanihirwe, Financial Analyst; D. Pratt, Livestock and Land Use Specialist (C).






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LOAN 2566-BT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
Botswana's climate and land resources are more suited to livestock production than crop farming;
and livestock have become both a source of individual pride and wealth of foreign exchange. Over the
years, however, overgrazing has occured where livestock are concentrated, and demand has increased
for wildlife areas to be opened for grazing. The main objectives of this project were therefore to assist
Government in strengthening its institutional capability to promote, through both program and policy
interventions, a balanced utilization of the rangeland resource and further development of livestock
production systems. The project succeeded two previous Bank-assisted projects in the livestock sub-sector
(Cr 325-BT of 1973 and Ln 1497-BT of 1978).
Implementation
The Bank loan became effective in April 1986.
The project got off to a slow start, due to its relatively complex structure aggravated by a run
of dry years, staffing delays and the high level of loans in arrears by NDB clients, which severely
reduced the utilization of credit funds made available by the project. As soon as it was launched, the
project also became a target of environmental lobbyists who viewed it as environmental unfriendly. A
lot of effort had to be put in by both the Bank and Government to defray these criticisms.
Progress in the communal areas, including group ranch development, was held back by delays
in securing land allocations for water development and technical assistance contributed by the British
ODA. It was also time-consuming agreeing management plans with local communities.
By 1989, it was apparent that the project was making very slow progress towards attaining
its major objectives. A bank supervision mission which visited the country in August/September that year
therefore proposed a restructuring of the project. The restructured project re-allocated more funds to the
land use planning and trek route components while allocations to ranch credit and livestock extension
were reduced. Total costs were estimated at US$ 15 million, a reduction of US$ 3 million compared with
the original project. The size of the Bank loan remained unaffected at US$ 10.7 million.
Although the implementation of the restructured project moved faster than the original
project, time lost in the initial years was never recovered. Therefore, in April 1990, the project
completion date was extended by one year to 30 September 1991. The project in fact closed on 30



iv
September 1992 after a further extension of another year. By special agreement between the Bank and
the Government, the loan account will remain active till 30 June 1993 to enable the Bank to re-imburse
outstanding claims. By then, all the Bank loan is expected to be disbursed.
Results and Impact
The project financed the establishment or further development of 67 commercial ranches and
the installation of functioning infrastructure for 5 group ranches and 3 pilot communal grazing areas. It
also equipped 10 boreholes and built 106 km of fence on trek routes, constructed 20 staff houses and
offices for MLGLH and MOA, and bought 40 vehicles for various agencies involved in project execution.
These numbers are substantially short of the appraisal targets in the case commercial ranches and the civil
works programme (houses, offices, boreholes and fencing).
One of the major benefits of the project, as seen in Government circles, was staff training.
The project financed overseas training for 64 staff who attended courses ranging from 6 months to 3
years studies in animal and range science and land evaluation. Over 350 other staff obtained in-service
training in areas such as GIS, EIA and communication skills.
Major studies were financed on incentives and disincentives in the livestock industry, NDB's
TGLP ranch portfolio, range resource assessment and monitoring, and water points distribution. With
the exception of the NDB study, whose recommendations are now being implemented, the other studies
have had limited impact on policy and operations.
Quantifiable benefits from productive investments (trek routes and ranch credit) have not
been estimated because of lack of readily available data regarding trek route use and the poor
performance of the ranch credit activities. It has therefore not been possible to re-calculate economic or
financial rates of return for these components or for the project as a whole.
Sustainability
In principle, the institutions and infrastructure established under the project are sustainable.
But there will be need for follow up actions, to streamline some of the existing institutional arrangements
(e.g. in land use planning), to make effective use of infrastructure and to ensure a positive policy
environment. The Tribal Land (Amendment) Bill, which was gazetted in draft form in March 1993,
provides a long-awaited legal framework for the gazettement of DLUPs, but sustainable land use still
depends on the emergence of procedures to delegate more authority to the lower levels of the community,
to those who are the primary users of the land.
Lessons Learned
The project demonstrated the need for careful analysis of all relevant data, including rainfall
data, and of input/output parameters, in areas such as ranch development and land use planning. It further
demonstrated the need, either for smaller and more manageable projects or for the adoption of a process
approach, with a built-in mechanism for regular reviews, to which project implementation can respond
quickly and flexibly, adjusting project inputs according to need. Finally, the project re-enforced the need
for thorough analysis, at appraisal, of the operations and capacities of key institutions which will be
involved in project implementation.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
NATIONAL LAND MANAGEMENT AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
((LOAN 2566-BT))
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name       :     National Land Management and Livestock Project
Credit No.         :     2566-BT
RVP Unit                 Southern Africa
Country            :     Botswana
Sector             :     Agriculture
Sub-sector         :     Livestock
2. Background and Sector Context
General
2.1         The project was a follow-up to the two earlier livestock development projects - Livestock
Development Project I ( Cr 325-BT of 1973) and Livestock Development Project II (Ln 1497-BT of
1978). Project preparation was carried out jointly in June 1984 by FAO/CP and the Government with
assistance from staff of the World Bank Regional Mission to Eastern Africa in Nairobi. On the basis of
their report, the Bank appraised the project in September 1984. It was approved by the Board in June
1985 and became operationally effective in April 1986.
2.2         The project was scheduled to be implemented over a 5 year period to 30 September 1990.
However, by late 1989, when the project was restructured, it was apparent that it was making slow
progress towards its objectives. Government therefore requested and the Bank agreed to an extension of
one year to September 1991. The project was finally completed on 30 September 1992 after a further
extension of another year.



2
Sector Development Context
2.3        Botswana's natural resource endowment of climate and land clearly favour the production
of cattle over crops. Despite relative constancy of meat exports, income in the livestock industry has
continued to rise as meat prices keep slightly ahead of the rate of inflation. This has benefitted large
owners but left the rural economy essentially unchanged. With the national herd growing at an average
rate of about 3.5% per annum, considerable pressure has been placed on the tribal lands, where
communal grazing is practised.
2.4         Government's response was the Tribal Grazing Land Policy (TGLP) of 1975. The principal
objective of TGLP was to divide all tribal land into three zones: commercial, communal and reserve
areas. On land designated commercial, holders of large herds and groups of farmers would be encouraged
to lease tracts of grazing land, to fence them and adopt improved management practices. Communal land
would be designated around rural population centres for use by farmers who grew crops and held small
numbers of cattle for only subsistence purposes. Reserve areas would be designated for wildlife
management and possible future grazing.
2.5        In the early haste to activate TGLP, errors were made in the initial zoning of tribal land,
requiring rezoning in order to equate resources with present land use and alternative or future uses. The
key Government institution responsible for the implementation of TGLP is the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands (now MLGLH with the addition of Housing). That ministry was therefore
incorporated as a major partner when this project was formulated.
3. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1        The objective of the project was to assist Government in strengthening its institutional
capability to promote, through both program and policy interventions, more effective utilisation of the
rangeland resource and further development of improved livestock production systems.
Project Description
3.2        The project comprised the following six components:
(i)        Land Use Planning and Management: including assistance to MLGLH in
the coordination of land use planning and associated training; support to the
establishment of 4 district planning units (DLUPUs); assistance to Land
Boards in the physical implementation of land use plans; training and
consultancy services for the Land Development Division of MOA; and
assistance to the Department of Wildlife and National Parks (DWNP).
(ii)       Trek Routes: increasing the effectiveness of the main north and southern trek
routes (for livestock movements) by upgrading their infrastructure and
improving their supervision.
(iii)      Extension: providing MOA with livestock extension specialists and assisting
with equipment, vehicles and infrastructure.



3
(iv)        Credit: providing the National Development Bank (NDB) with funds for on-
lending for ranch development as well as assisting NDB with incremental
specialised staff and transport for the purpose of administering this credit.
(v)         Project Coordination: providing for the setting up, through staffing and
transport, of a Project Coordination Unit within MOA.
(vi)        Livestock Pricing and Finandal Incentive/Disincentive Analysis: providing
consultants to help the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of
Finance and Development Planning (MFDP) develop recommendations on
pricing and incentives/disincentives for the livestock sub-sector.
3.3         Project costs were originally estimated at US$ 18 million of which the Bank would finance
US$ 10.7 million or 60% of total funding requirements. On the restructuring of the project in October
1989, total project costs were reduced by about US$ 3 million. However, the size of the Bank loan was
not changed thus effectively increasing the Bank's contribution to over 70% of funding requirements.
4. Project Design and Organization
Design
4.1         Because the project grew out of 10 years previous Bank-Borrower collaboration in the
livestock sub-sector, it was an expression of jointly held views on what was needed. However, it was
much more ambitious than its predecessors (LDP I and II) and entered into areas of land reform and
resource management not covered before.
4.2         Project design had three principal shortfalls. Firstly, it did not adequately utilize the
available rainfall data, which for some recording stations now covers almost 80 years. The project
preparation and appraisal teams planned, instead, on the basis of averages and so were not prepared for
the dry years of the 1980s. Yet the 1980s were no worse, over much of the country, than the 1960s: the
exception lies more in the run of good years during the 1970s. There are signs of over-generalization or
over-optimism in other areas too: in the scant attention given to methodologies and outputs in landuse
planning, and to social and institutional constraints in ranch and communal area development. Lastly, the
project designers did not adequately study the potentials and the capacities of the institutions which were
to be entrusted with project implementation. A case in point is NDB. Although, at the time of project
appraisal, the credit delivery and collection record was clearly inadequate, alternative or corrective
avenues were not fully explored and this has contributed to the poor performance of the ranch credit
component of this project.
4.3         The overall impression is that this was a process project squeezed into the framework of
a fixed-term investment project. Only two components - trek routes and ranch credit - had any real
investment content. The others, from the start, involved combinations of technical assistance, institution
strengthening and pilot development activities which, because of their uncertain outcome, are normally
pursued through grant aid and/or a process approach. In retrospect, there are grounds to believe that had
the project been designed as a process project, with inputs worked out annually or biennially in the light
of experience, it is likely to have achieved more (at probably the same cost) and not to have ended as
inconclusively as it did. Alternatively, in view of its diverse operations, the project could have been



4
formulated as two or three separate projects, or sub-projects. This would have eased management, while
ensuring closer scrutiny of project activities.
Organization and Management
4.4         A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was set up to with the responsibility for coordinating
project activities, maintaining consolidated project records and project level reporting. The management
and implementation of specific components of the project was entrusted to the respective line ministries
and agencies. They were responsible for operational activities, budgetary control and financial
accountability for those components. While this was a good arrangement and avoided the creation of
parallel project management institutions, it made project level reporting rather slow and cumbersome as
the Project Coordination Unit had to wait for reports from the various ministries and agencies before
consolidating them into one report.
4.5         At national level, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) was set up to oversee all project
activities. It comprised top officials from MOA, MLGLH, NDB, and the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning (MFDP). The Permanent Secretary, MOA was designated as Chairman while the
Project Coordinator was designated as Secretary. The PSC met 2 to 4 times a year (jointly with
supervision missions, when appropriate) and was instrumental in overseeing and balancing the roles of
the respective implementing agencies. It also set up a Project Coordinating Committee, comprising all
those with operational responsibilities under the project, which met as and when the Project Coordinator
required.
4.6         These mechanisms, though applied diligently, were unable to overcome all of the limitations
of project designs noted above. Even with two years of extension, the project fell short on several of its
targets. The outcome might have been better if, as the SAR prescribed, there had been a second
coordinator (one, a monitoring and evaluation officer) and a formal process of annual review based on
progress reports produced by 31 July each year. However, no second coordinator was appointed and
annual reports were not used in the way envisaged. Hardly ever were annual reports referred to in
supervision reports and latterly, at least, they were much delayed in production (the latest one published
is "Monitoring and Progress Report 1990-91").
5. Project Implementation
5.1         The project got off to a slow start, and ranch and communal area development never caught
up. Shortfalls in the ranch development component were attributed first to drought but increasingly to
poor management by NDB of its ranch portfolio. Eventually, in April 1992, Government stopped NDB
from extending further agricultural credit, pending organizational restructuring and improvement in loan
recovery. However, even if credit had flowed as planned, it is unlikely that prevailing standards of on-
ranch management would have generated the expected returns, except with the help of an exceptional run
of good rainfall years.
5.2        In the communal areas (including group ranches), different problems prevailed. It took time
to secure land allocations for water development, to undertake the necessary works and to agree
management plans with communities. In one area, dams had to be substituted for groundwater
development, and in two others water is still either lacking or too saline to attract users. Elsewhere it
proved difficult to attract contributions in cash or kind from participants, due variously to free water
being on offer from a Council borehole or to drought relief being introduced which attracted labor away



5
from "unpaid" activities. Moreover, the expatriate technical assistance which was to accompany
communal area development was provided late and was withdrawn before the project ended.
5.3        It had been agreed early in the project that the British Overseas Development Administration
(ODA) would provide technical assistance (TA) under grant terms, both for the communal areas and for
land use training and project coordination. GOB estimated that this arrangement would save them US$
2 million. For more than two years, problems over recruitment of TA dogged the project. Eventually,
by early 1989, the Land Use Training Officer and the two livestock specialists for communal areas were
in post. Assistance from ODA with project coordination never materialised and the coordinator who had
served the project since inception was confirmed in the post.
5.4        By 1989, other components and activities were gathering momentum, and a restructuring
of the project was agreed which, inter alia, expanded inputs to land use planning to cover all districts and
provided for water point surveys in selected areas and for additional boreholes on trek routes. The
original wildlife sub-component  was dropped, having been rendered superfluous by assistance
forthcoming from the EEC. Ranch credit was substantially reduced but NDB was allowed to apply project
credit to game ranching and poultry credits. These revisions did not affect the size of the Bank loan.
5.5        The components which were progressing faster were not without problems. There was
increasing concern on the part of the Bank at delays in the gazettement of District Land Use Plans
(DLUPs) and inaction on the recommendations of the Incentives/Disincentives study and on the
establishment of a Rangeland Inventory and Monitoring Unit (RIMU). The latter had been proposed as
a result of a consultancy arranged under the "Land Development Division" sub-component. Basically,
what was happening is that the project was coming face to face with the institutional and political
complexities of the situation in which it was intervening. The institutional framework was, in fact, more
complex by this time than when the project was formulated. For example, range ecology was separated
from land utilization (the new name for "land development") and both were separated departmentally from
range management and livestock production. The emotions and vested interests attaching to livestock,
however, remained the same, exacerbated by genuine uncertainties concerning the direction which some
areas of government policy should take. There was, in addition, a legal impediment to the gazettement
of DLUPs, requiring, apparently, the enactment of an amendment to the Tribal Land law. The
amendment was gazetted in draft form only in March 1993 after the project had been completed.
5.6        The SAR assessed risks only in the context of the economic benefits accruing from the
project. Drought was recognized as the highest risk to on-ranch production, but it was then assumed that
better management would minimize drought effects. In the event, the dry years materialized but the better
management did not (or only to an insignificant degree). Foot and mouth disease and "significant political
and socio-economic risks" were also cited; the latter in the context of overcoming traditional practices
and potential conflicts of interest in implementing land use plans. It was considered that Government's
commitment to reform, coupled with what the SAR saw as the "modestly dimensioned" project, with its
in-built assistance with monitoring and problem-solving, would serve to reduce these risks. In the event,
these counter-balancing factors proved not to be as effective as had been hoped.
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1        The main benefits of the project are seen, in government circles, as staff training, the
vehicles and other facilities provided to DLUPUs (including Land Boards) and stimulus to the process
of policy formulation. 64 staff have benefitted from overseas training, on courses ranging from 6 weeks
to 3 years, mostly in animal or range science or land resource evaluation. As shown in Table 6, some



6
350 have attended in-service courses focusing on such areas as GIS, EIA and communication skills. The
impact of this training has yet to be evaluated but many have left Government service and taken up more
financially rewarding jobs elsewhere in the country.
6.2        In physical terms, as shown in Table 4, the project financed the establishment of 67
commercial ranches, 5 group ranches (operational since December 1992) and 3 pilot communal grazing
areas. The project also equipped 10 boreholes and built 106 km of fence on trek routes. Additionally, 20
staff houses and offices were constructed for MLGL and the livestock extension unit of MOA. About
40 vehicles were bought for various agencies involved in project execution. As shown in Table 4, the
number of commercial ranches established and the civil works programme (houses, offices, boreholes and
fencing) fell substantially short of the appraisal targets.
6.3         The impact of inputs to DLUPUs and Land Boards is difficult to assess. Most districts
have moved away from the concept of a DLUP as a broad-brush exercise in zoning commercial,
communal and wildlife areas, but with different approaches being applied in different districts. Some
districts have concentrated on district-wide planning studies, in order to synthesize available data and
establish a framework for future planning and development, while others have concentrated on more
detailed baseline studies and management plans in specific zones established through an earlier zoning
exercise. Most of these studies have been supported by consultancies and/or technical assistance funded
from sources external to the project. While the present diversity of approach is healthy, there seems to
be little quality control to ensure that essential parameters of rainfall and habitat, and of household
dynamics and income levels, are taken into account.
6.4         The influence of the project on policy is also difficult to assess. There have been some
strategic changes attributable to the project - including countrywide adoption of the DLUPU model and
the restructuring imposed on NDB - but the assessment of policy shifts has to await the emergence of a
successor project (or future policy statements) which will indicate the direction in which Government is
moving the development process. The Tribal Land (Amendment) Bill, 1993 reduces the importance of
tribal affiliation in acquiring land and provides for the establishment of land tribunals, as well as
providing the mechanism for gazettement of land use zones, but these other provisions are not entirely
project-related.
6.5        In summary, and with reference to specific indicators of project performance:
-       human resource development, at the technical and professional level, has been
helped substantially, though the impact on the public service has been reduced by
many staff resigning from public service after returning from overseas training;
-       the physical environment has not worsened as a result of the project (despite the
fears of some environmentalists) and could show improvement, with the right
policies and follow-up actions;
-       the technological environment is unchanged, in that no support was given to
research;
-       the social environment is also unchanged, since there was relatively little ranch
development and very little progress in the communal areas;
institutions at the district level have benefitted, as has MLGLH headquarters
and NDB. But the group and community structures which have been formed under the
project will need more support to fully contribute towards increasing people's management
capability and responsibility.



7
6.6         No economic evaluation has been carried out for the PCR because of lack of readily
available data regarding the use of the trek routes developed by the project. Such data can only be
extracted from individual movement permits and quarantine records kept by district veterinary offices,
supplemented by records of animals received for slaughter officially by BMC abattoirs and infornally
by private butchers. Extracting such data is very time-consuming, and can only be used to assess project
benefits after several years data have accumulated. As regards ranch development, a large proportion of
the expected loan coverage was not achieved, and the Task Manager advised that an economic re-
evaluation of this component was not justified. Later, however, as evaluation would be highly desirable,
using data from the ranch credit study as the baseline.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        In principle, the institutions and infrastructure established under the project are sustainable,
but there is no indication as yet of GOB's plans for follow-up. Moreover, present institutional
arrangements for land use planning and range resource management are diffuse and would benefit from
reorganization. It is unlikely, also, that improvement in communal areas can be effected by central
government, without much greater delegation of authority and responsibility to District Councils and the
communities they represent. The argument that only line ministries have the technical competence to
initiate programmes carries little weight, when interventions, to be successful, have to be tailored to
community and household needs and capabilities. There are several bridging mechanisms which could
be considered, including that of seconding DLUPU staff to, or otherwise making them responsible to,
District Councils. At present each DLUPU member is responsible to his or her line ministry.
7.2         The issue of sustainability of the land use systems promoted by the project is less certain.
Ranch viability depends not just on rainfall but also on the continuing access of Botswana beef to
European markets. And such markets are susceptible to many influences, be it trade agreements, public
health regulations or trends towards vegetarianism. Some ranchers also complain that the younger
generation is showing decreasing interest in ranching. This may lead, if inheritance is no longer a
consideration, to more exploitative use of ranch resources. Wildlife still has precedence over substantial
tracts of country, but wildlife cannot survive in its present diversity if there is substantial increase in
fencing. Nor can it survive, as an economic form of land use in competition with the needs of an
increasing human population, unless international demand for tourism or sport hunting continues.
7.3         Government budgetary allocations to the project have been adequate throughout and there
are no signs that, in the near future, the investments and other activities supported by the project will not
be sustainable because of lack of financial support from GOB.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         As shown in Table 8, 14 supervision missions visited the country in the course of project
implementation. Although supervision was diligent in timing, it was less strong in diagnosis. The changes
which occurred in supervisors brought some benefit - along with changing perspectives and attributes.
Early supervision tended to measure progress only against targets, and it was not until 1990-91 that a
broader view became evident in supervision reports. That of late 1990 drew attention to the limitations
of existing DLUPs and of communal area development which, by focusing on livestock, does not address
the needs of families without livestock. Subsequent reports sought to encourage privatization of services



8
to ranchers. Many missions were too short and therefore could not come to grips with everything that
was going on.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The Borrower showed continuous commitment to the project. The PSC met with exemplary
regularity, and the Project Coordinator and his team did a commendable job in coordinating and reporting
project activities. The Government met its financial and legal covenants under the Loan Agreement with
the exception of the submission of audited project accounts which were usually transmitted late to the
Bank. However, such deficiencies were due, not to omissions on the part of the PCU, but to procedures
entrenched in the Government system accentuated by the diffuse nature of the project.
10. Project Relationships
10.1       Bank-Borrower relationships were excellent. They co-operated well at the crucial times
when the project required restructuring, and, later, when need arose to extend the life of the project.
Nonetheless, project design imposed its own stresses, as did the involvement of ODA in recruitment of
TA.
11. Consulting Services
11.1       Consultants were used at project formulation and during supervision, and for the execution
of the major studies funded by the project. The latter comprise the incentives/disincentives study, a TGLP
ranch credit study, the input on methodologies and institutional arrangements for RIMU and the water
point inventory. The results were generally acceptable, though the incentives/disincentives study contained
recommendations deemed inappropriate by GOB, the RIMU study was somewhat pedantic and the water
point survey of Southern District attracted criticism on the grounds of unreliability (having been
supervised by MLGLH rather than by units more familiar with water survey and resource mapping).
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The legal agreements attaching to the project were well understood by all concerned. The
appraisal report was sufficiently detailed and comprehensive to guide the project throughout
implementation, though the project design was itself an impediment, as already noted. Reference has also
been made to the limited socio-economic and environmental analysis underpinning the project and the lack
of guidance on the products expected of land use planning, beyond gazetted DLUPs.
12.2       Data for the preparation of this PCR, apart from those relating to expenditure, training and
physical installations, were hard to come by. Had there been annual seminars, at which component
managers tabled their achievements - including samples of DLUPs and information on trek route usage
and the progress of the commercial ranchers financed by the project - this should have left a valuable
record for subsequent review.



9
13. Lessons Learnt
13.1        Several lessons have been learned from this project:
-       Project design should utilize all available data that are relevant to planning project
operations and estimating project benefits. For example, the historic rainfall
record could have been used in this case to avoid the over-optimism which was
built into project design and the estimates of project benefit and impact.
-       Projects like NLMLP, which intervene in a process and are not just a one-time
intervention require a built-in mechanism for frequent adjustment of inputs in
response to monitoring data and experience gained. The annual reviews provided
for in the SAR went someway towards recognising this requirement, but the
procedures applied were too rigid and too pre-occupied with pre-determined
targets.
-       There is need for preparation and appraisal teams to avoid involving many
institutions in project implementation, especially when these are of uncertain
capabilities and compatibility. In this case, there was not an adequate review of
NDB operations, so that factors of poor management, high levels of loan
delinquency, and inadequate record keeping were overlooked or under-estimated
to the extent that other mechanisms for channelling credit were not explored.
13.2       The project leaves GOB with much to do. If GOB uses well the experience gained from
the project, it will:
-       maintain pressure on NDB to improve its performance, not just in ranch loan
management but also in assessing needs in relation to ecological conditions and
prevailing standards of ranch management;
-       ensure increasing precision in the work of DLUPUs, with particular reference to
the zoning of communal and reserve lands and the specification of rights of avail
in each land category in advance of gazettement;
-       streamline lines of responsibility in the overall area of landuse planning and range
resource management, with due regard for the role of resource inventory and
monitoring;
-       increase the resources available for pilot development schemes in communal areas,
and consider the potential role of District Councils as instruments for mobilising
people's participation and overseeing communal area development;
-       ensure that needs and opportunities in communal areas are differentiated according
to farm-household circumstances (including reference to poverty indicators) and
that farming systems methods are used to identify and test appropriate
development interventions; and
formulate drought strategies that are appropriate to different intensities of drought
and the needs of different categories of producer.



10
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
14. Project Formulation and Appraisal
14.1       The National Land Management and Livestock Project (LDP III) originated from
discussions between the World Bank mission and the Government of Botswana in February 1983 on the
possibility of a successor project to the Second Livestock Development Project (LDP II).
14.2.   It was realized that during the implementation of Livestock Projects I and I, sales from the
cattle industry to the abattoirs on commercial basis had substantially increased, however, there was
growing evidence of serious overgrazing and deteriorating range. The overgrazing and deteriorating
range threatened the long term viability of the livestock industry; the two parties noted.
14.3       A project memorandum was prepared by a consultant on behalf of the Government of
Botswana and submitted to the World Bank for appraisal. The Bank mission led by a former National
Development Bank Executive appraised the project in September 1983. The World Bank agreed to fund
the following components:
(a)    Land Use Planning and Management
(b)    Trek Routes
(c)    Extension Services
(d)    Ranch Credit
(e)    Project Co-ordination Unit
The Consultant and the Government of Botswana on one hand, and the appraisal team on the other might
have noted that the inclusion of the Land Use Planning and Management Component in NLM and LP
constituted a major departure in planning from Livestock Projects I and II. Lessons and experiences
gained from implementing the two previous projects would not be quite relevant. There is no adequate
evidence to convince one that enough consultations were made between the project formulation team and
the various implementing agencies on one hand, and the project beneficiaries on the other hand. To
elaborate on the former, the Land Use Planning and Management component which was expected to
produce quality land use plans consistent with Natural resource use and management was coordinated by
the Ministry of Local Government Lands and Housing. The quality of land use plans depended on the
Ministry of Agriculture to provide the land suitability classification maps. At the time of project
formulation and appraisal, the Ministry of Agriculture had no equipment and staff to embark on the land
suitability classification project. How quality land use plans would have been produced in the absence
of information from MOA was questionable.
15. Land Use Planning and Management
15.1       The project provided support to Land Use Planning and Management which was coordinated
by the Ministry of Local Government Lands and Housing. Main emphasis was on provision of
equipment, training, transport and accommodation in order to facilitate the production of Land Use plans
and their implementation through the District Land Use Planning Units (DLUPU) and the Land Boards.
Notably the project has been a success in promoting a coordinated approach to land use planning. The
extension of the production of the land use plans to other districts country-wide was deemed necessary
by the Government of Botswana though in the short-term one would have said it constrained project
resources. The delays in the production of the land use plans were due to lack of input from the Ministry
of Agriculture which needed to complete its land suitability classification maps before the Ministry of



11
Local Government Lands and Housing Land Use Planning Unit would proceed. It is worthwhile noting
that the sustainability of this system of land use planning apart from provision of resources by government
depended on its acceptability by the local authorities country-wide hence, its extension to all districts.
16. Land Development Division
16.1       The Land Development Division in the Ministry of Agriculture comprised Land Use and
Range Ecology. During the implementation period of this project, most of the staff in this Division were
on long term training, and up to now some have not yet returned.  The implementation of
recommendations from GRM International in their consultancies awaits the return of most of those staff
who are abroad. By the end of the project, all operational sites for the implementation of the "SUB -
OPTIMUM OPTION" as recommended by the consultants had been selected and funds had been secured
for the purchase of equipment.
16.2       As outlined earlier, the staffing gap should have been evident during the appraisal mission
and some means should have been devised to bridge this gap during the implementation of the project.
As a result the introduction of the professional planners and the change from Land Use Planning Advisory
Groups (LUPAG) to District Land Use Planning Units (DLUPU) which were expected to enhance the
implementation of the Land Use Plans did not become effective during the lifetime of the project.
17. Trek Route
17.1       Trek route is a traditional method of moving animals to and from locations for various
reasons. In Botswana this movement involves passing between regions of the Department of Animal
Health and Production, hence act as control mechanism for the movement of animals from one region
to the other for disease control purposes. The issue of interzonal movement permits should allow the
maintenance of statistical records of all livestock moved through trekking and trucking.
17.2       The Project funds provided for this component were meant to develop the physical
infrastructures pertaining to watering and handling facilities, provision of firebreaks, and fencing around
each facility. Upkeep and maintenance were to be carried out by the Department of Animal Health and
Production through the recurrent budget.
17.3       The physical provision of the infrastructure on this component was accomplished with little
difficulties. However, during the lifetime of the project it was not possible to ascertain whether the
facilities were being adequately utilized due to lack of or poor record keeping. This is also evident in
the projects lack of slaughter records from the major abattoirs. That there was no instrumentation for
the collection of trekking and slaughter data at abattoirs is transparent in the Staff Appraisal Reports
(SAR's) lack of in depth elaboration on the projects Monitoring and Evaluation Data Collection System.
Unlike Livestock Project I and II, this project did not have specialists in Monitoring and Evaluation, it
depended on the services of the Rural Sociology Unit, which had a lot of other projects to monitor.
18. MOA Extension Services
18.1       Pilot Group Ranches. The livestock Extension components aimed at demonstrating
sustainable rangeland utilization under both ranching and commtunity grazing systems. The originally
acquired pieces of land for pilot group ranches in Hukuntsi and Nata had problems of water
unavailability, and a poisonous plant respectively. When land was finally acquired in Hainaveld
(Ngamiland) and Motokwe (Kweneng), it was 4 years after the project had started. In addition to delays



12
in the allocation of land, drilling of water and equipping became a problem since this had to be re-
negotiated with the Department of Water Affairs; at the same time allocated syndicates could not secure
loans from the National Development Bank since the loan portfolio had been closed. Initial Ranch
development costs with the suspension of NDB loan portfolio made farmers reluctant to move to the
project site.
18.2       Communal Pilot Grazing Areas. Communal Pilot Grazing Areas were included in the
project in order to initiate participatory community responsibility in livestock and range management.
Inadequate units of grazing areas were established during the planned period due to some factors which
were not considered fully in project formulation. Among them was the shortage of staff and transport.
However, the major problem was the inexperience of local people in cooperative livestock grazing
systems and formal group operations.
18.3       Shortage of staff was later alleviated by the recruitment of Livestock Specialist through
Technical Assistance provided by Overseas Development Administration (ODA), but this did not prove
effective either because of cultural barriers between the Livestock Extension specialist and the community,
or other organizational technicalities.
18.4       Reading through literature, one should have recognized the problem of group formation and
operation in Botswana. It should have been realized that the existing extension organization and
management could not adequately cater for the diversified knowledge and information needs of groups
as the approaches were oriented more towards solving individual's problems than groups.
18.5       The Incentives/Discentives study recommended the adoption of the World Bank's Training
and Visit System of Extension approach, but there was need to rationalize the concept and modify it to
fit into the existing socio-economic conditions of a cross-section of livestock farmers in the country.
19. Credit
19.1       The National Development Bank (NDB) was responsible for the provision of loans for ranch
development during the funding period of the National Land Management and Livestock project (LDP
HII) by the World Bank. However, at a later period these loans were extended to include other livestock
and wildlife. The subsidiary loan agreement to the National Development Bank by government was
signed at a time when Botswana was going through the worst drought of its kind. The drought had some
effect on the attitude of farmers towards obtaining and using loans for ranch and livestock development.
To the farmers, the only rational decision was to keep the animals that had been spared by drought rather
than getting involved in costly developments.
19.2       After the recovery from drought, it was anticipated that many ranchers would come forward
for loans since many Tribal Grazing Land Policy ranches had been allocated, but the farmers concentrated
on building up their herds from other sources than going into infrastructure development.
19.3       Upon recommendations from a consultancy group Mc Cowan International in 1988, the
bank provided short term loans for restocking, branding, game farming, poultry, piggery and small stock.
The bank, on the recommendations by the same consultancy strengthened the follow-up and Agricultural
Appraisal Divisions.



13
19.4       Despite the restructuring of the activities, the arrears contamination of the whole NDB
portfolio was considerable and the bank was having a financial viability problem. This resulted in the
suspension of financing of NDB by the World Bank after consultation with the Government of Botswana.
19.5       The problems of NDB default in repayment could be explained in three ways. In the first
place, during the drought, the expectation of the public was that the interests on their loans were going
to be written off, but this did not materialize. Secondly, the capacity of the NDB staff was over
estimated at project formulation and appraisal, thirdly, this being a repeater project, some of the expenses
in loan repayment from LDPs I and II should have shed light on the need to scrutinise the capabilities
of the loans follow-up division before giving it the additional workload.
19.6       Drought and World-wide recession in the economies claimed the bigger share of the blame
on the non-repayment of arrears by farmers and ranchers in the eighties. However, one would imagine
the National Development Bank needed assistance in the development of strategies and monitoring
mechanisms that would ensure that their clients at least pay back certain percentage on any sales of cattle
that they made. Examples of unwillingness to payback government loans in developing countries even
when borrowers have enormous profit are vast, the National Development Bank could not have been
treated as an exception.
20. Project Coordination
20.1       The Project Coordination Unit was within the Ministry of Agriculture, under the direct
control of Chief Agricultural Economist. The project had problems of recruiting a suitable Project
Coordinator at early stage of the project under the Terms of Reference (TOR) agreed by the World Bank
and Government. Eventually a local coordinator with balanced experience in livestock and range
management was put as a coordinator. The Coordination Unit provided administrative support to
implementing managers by dealing with financial management, project organization and preparation of
annual reports for onwards transmission to the World Bank.
20.2       Outside the Project Coordination Unit was an interministerial committee comprised of
various ministerial representatives of finance, Ministry of Local Government Lands and Housing,
Ministry of Mineral Resources and Water Affairs and others. The Project Coordination Unit did a
commendable job in achieving the short-term objectives at the output level. However this project had
some implicit objectives which the project coordination unit needed to monitor so that the medium term
objectives (the effects) could be realized and in turn contribute to the long term objectives.
20.3       The Project Planning Matrix had indicated what data was required at each level of hierarchy
of the project to verify success, but expertise might not have been there since this project did not have
a full time monitoring and evaluation specialist, hence data available is inadequate to compute the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR).
21. Successor Project
21.1       The successor project to National Land Management and Livestock Project (LDPIII has
to combine lessons and experiences from all the three projects, and the design has to take a more
participatory approach. If one looks into the objectives of LDD III there are three questions to ask:
(a)    Did the Project reduce overgrazing and Land degradation - if the answer is yes,
where is the evidence, if no, what has to be done next?



14
(b)    Has the project facilitated distribution of incomes in favor of the rural poor'
Where is the evidence? if no, what should the successor project include in order
to address the problem.
(c)    Did the Project support building institutions which would enhance the achievement
of one and two; if the answer is yes, what should the focus be in order to improve
one and two? and sustain development?



15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credit
Loan/Credit    Title                       Amount  Year of  Comments
Number                                     (US$M)  Appraisal
CR 325-BT       Livestock Development        1.60    1972      Completed
Project I
LN 1497-BT      Livestock Development        6.5    1977       Completed
Project II



16
BOTSWANA: Natioval Id MNanagmet and Livestock Pject (NLMLP)
Pant HI: Statical Infomation
Table 2. Project Timetable
Item                               Planned Date       Revised Date       Actual Date
- Identification                       2/83                                  2/83
- Preparation                          6/84                                  6/84
- Appraisal Mission                    9/84                                  9/84
- Loan/Negotiations                    3/85               4/85               4/85
- Board Approval                       4/85               6/85               6/85
- Loan Signature                                                             12/85
- Loan Effectiveness                                                         4/86
- Loan Completion                      9/90               9/91
9/92              9/92
- Loan closing                         3/91               3/92
3/93              6/93
Comment: The final loan closing date was set as 31 March 1992. However, during the field visit, the
FAO/CP mission was advised by GOB officials that this has been exceptionally extended by
the World Bank to 30 June 1993 to enable processing of outstanding reimbursement
applications.



BOTSUANA: Land Management and Livestock Project (NLMLP)
Part III: Statistical Information
Table 3.  Cuoulative Loan Disbursements
(USSI)
IBRD Fiscal Year                1985/86   1986/87    1987/88    1988/89   1989/90   1990/91    1991/92    1992/93
SAR Estimate                        0.8       3.2        6.2         8.7      10.5       10.7
Revised tstimate                    n.a        n.a        n.a        n.a        n.a       n.a        n.a        n.a
Actual                              o.o       0.5        1.2        2.1        2.8        4.8        6.0       8.,
ActualAs%ofSAREst.                  0.0      16.0       19.0       24.0      27.0        45.0       56.0      81.0
Actual As % of Rev. Est.            n.a        n.a        n.E,       n.a        n.a       n.a        n.a        n.a
Note:
The final cummulative figure reflects actual disbursements up to 31 March 1993. However, according to the Project Coordination Unt
in Gaborone, the Bank has exceptionally agreed to effect re-imbursements for a further 3 months to 30 June 1993. Outstanding
applications with the Bank total about US$ 3.5 million.
Source: SAR and Bank disbursement records.



18
BOTSWANA: NatonaI Lmd Management and Livestock Project (NLMLP)
Part m: StausOcai Informuion
Table 4. Key Implementation Indicators
SAR                   Actual/                   Actual As %
Item                                                    Estimdae              PCR Estimate              Of SAR Estimate
1. Land Use Component
Houses Built                     No                         34                     12                               35
Orfices Bulh                      No                        26                      3                               12
Vehicles Bought                  No                           6                    21                              263
2. Trek Routes Component
New Boreholes                    No                          16                    10                               63
Fences Built                     Km                        162                    106                               65
Vehicles Bought                  No                           6                     9                              150
3. Livestock Extension Comp.
Offices Built                    No                           2                     5                              250
Houses Built                     No                           2                     0                                0
Vehicles Bought                  No                    D.   10                      6                               60
Pilot Communal Grazing Areas     No                           4                     3                              75
4. National Development Bank \1
Loans for Ranch Dev.             No                         130                    67                               52
Loans for Poultry                No                           0                     2
Loans for Game Ranching          No                           0                     2
Loansfor Tourist Dev.            No                           0                     1
Vehicles Bought                  No                           3                     2                              67
6 Project Coornination Unn
Vehicles Bought                  No                           6                     3                               50
7. Consultancies
Studies                          No                          3                      3                              '00
8 Train'in
Overseas Training                Staff                      N/A                    64
In-house Training                Staff                      N/A                   354
=tS= flt =5==wS USt5c==ws= W=sSaS                            inin_ t=.. .. ........SSS.. S--..S..S.........  ...======
\1  Loans Disbursed
SouLce:
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Project Management Unit Oftfice in Gaborone.
====                                      a        aas       ss.................................... = ................. =            



BOTSUANA: National Land management and Livestock Project (NLNLP)
Part III: Statistical Information
Table 5A.  Project Costs
USSOOO'
SAR                                      Revised                                    Esimale              Aclud as %
Esimate                                  Esimale                                    Aclual \1            Of Revised Ecl.
Local     Foreign     Told                Local     Foreign      Told               Local     Foreign    Told
Component
IandUse flanring                     1374       2308      3602                 1711       2827      4538                                      2661                59
Trek noute                            408        647      1055                 1136        689      1825                                      2808               154
Livestock Extension                   880       1984      2864                  410        938       1377                                      3468              252
Nat. Dev.1Bank (Cedt)    \2           1526      4419      5945                  1383      3012       4396                                      1930               44
Project Coordnaton                     129       555       684                  389       1296       1684                                     2678               159
Sludes                                           185        185                            421       421                                        741              176
Sub-Total                  4317     10098      14415                 5059      9182      14240
Conbngencies                         1438       1962      3400                  319        439       758
Total                      5755     12000      17815                 5378      9620      14998               n.a       n.e         14286               95
\l Aclual Costs indudo price and phyisical contingendes.
\2 ActuA costs include an estimatedUSS 324,000 costs Inanced by the sub- borrowers contribulons.
Sotxce: SAR. i3ank Supervision leports, and the Project Coordnalon Urit In Gaborone.



BOTSUANA: National Land Management and Livestock Project (NLMLP)
Part IlI: Statistical Information
Table 58.  Project Financing
USSOOO0
Actual as %
Planned               Revised                Actual                of Revised Est.
A. IBRD Category
1. Civil Works                                     2100                   1343                  2010   \1                      150
2. Vehicles & Spare Parts                           700                   2238                  2508   \1                       112
3. Consultants & Training                          2700                   2475                  3593   \1                       145
4. Commercial Ranch Devlp.                         3100                   3334                   626   \1                        19
5. Unallocated                                     2100                   1310                                                    0
Sub- total                             10700                 10700                   8737    \2                      82
B. GOB Contribution                                7000                   4198                  5225                            124
C. Sub-Borrowers Contribution                       100                    100                    324   \3                      324
Total                                  17800                 14998                  14286                            95
===== .====   =====t======= .======= .======= .======= .==-                                           
Notes
\1 Per WB disbursement records
\2 Excludes re-imbursement claims lodged by GOB but still unpaid by WB
\3 Mission estimate, based on total loans disbursed by NDB under the project.These are now shown as part of GOB's contribulion.
==    =     =  =  =    =  =  =    =  =  =     =  = =     =  =  == =   =  =  = =  =  =  =  =  = =  =  =  =  =  = =  =  =  =  =  =



21
BOTSWANA: Nation Land Manmm_ ad L,veok Pred (NLMP)
Pail III: Stattica Iformlao
Table 6. Project Results                          (Page 1)
A: Direct Benefits
Indicator                SAR Estimate        Acutal PCR Estimate
ndividual Ranches Supported (No)          130                     67
roup Ranches Supported (No)               8                      4
arcass Weight Saved (Kg/Animal)           6                      NA
B: Economic Impact
Component               SAR Estimate ERR        Actual PCR Estimate ERR
Routes Development                        15                         NA
Trek Routes                               33                         NA
Combined                                  16                         NA
Comment:
There was no re-estimation of the ERR for the PCR because the ranch development component credit
covered a far less number of ranches than anticipated at appraisal, and no data is readily available about
trek route usage to enable an estimate of benefits for the ERR calculation.



22
BOTSWANA: Nadonal Land Managmt d  liUvesock Project (NLMLP)
Part I: Stadsa Infonnaio
Table 6. Project Results                                     (Page 2)
C: Training
64 staff attended overseas courses lasting 6 months to 3 years. In addition there was in-service training
for 354 DLUPU cadres as shown below.
Subject                                               Nunber per Cadre"
CPOi DOD DOL DPP LBTA LUO TO Total
Airphoto interpretation                                  14           20      8    6
Communication skills                        4            7     4      1             2
Computer skills:
.Word processing                           10    21    10    7       28      4      4
DOS & file management                      1            3    5       1      4
Environmental impact assessment (EIA)              4     6     4              1
Geographical information systems (GIS)                   3     4      1             1
Map making                                                            18
Mathematics                                                           22
Range management                                         11                   7
Remote sensing                                     2     6    11              4
Soil interpretation                                      9                   7
Surveying                                                             30            1
Urban design and control                                       10
Total staff                               (16)   27    69   45    148    35    14   354
The numbers are derived from a handwritten copy of a tabLe held by the Land Use Training Officer, and
probably an entry has been missed in both the CPO and LBTA columns since the entries included in these
columns total of 15 and 121, not 16 and 148 as listed.
2/   CPO = Council Planning Officer; DOD = District Officer, Development; DOL a District Officer, Lands; DPP
= District Physical Planner; LBTA = Land Board Technical Assistant; LUO z Land UtiLization Officer; TO X
Technical Officer.



23
BOTSWANA: National land Maemuet and Uvetock Project (NLMLP)
Part III: Statistical Information
Table 6. Project Results                             (Page 3)
D: Studies
Name                       Status          Inpact
Incentive/Disincentive Study        Completed         Recommendations were largely not
supported by GOB
Study of the NDB TGLP             Completed         NDB is implementing many of the
ch Loan Portfolio                                  recommendations
Range Resource Study                Completed         GOB accepted the recommendations but the
proposed RIMU has not yet been
established
Water Points Distribution           Completed         Some of the recommendations are being
|Study                                                implemented



BOTSUANA: National Land Management and Livestock Project (NLMLP)
Part III : Statistical Information
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Loan Agreemnent Section  Subject                                                      Status               Comments
4.01 (a)                  The borrower shall maintain adequate accounting records in    Done
respect of the project.
4.01 (b) (ii)             The borrower shall fumish to the Bank, not later than 6    Partially complied    Audited accounts were usually submitted late to
months after the end of lack financial year, a certified copy of                the Bank.
the audited project accounts.
4.02 (a)                  The borrower shall cause NDB to maintain adequate records    one                 mprovement to the standards of record keeping
and accounts of its operation                                                   tre still needed as evidenced in recent audit
reports.
.01                      The borrower shall cause NDB to carry out its operations in   Partially complied  4DB continued to suffer from poor
accordance with sound administrative, financial and                             management for most of the project period. It is
agricultural credit practices                                                   now undergoing a funancial and management
restructuring.
.02                      The borrower shall submit to the Bank, not later than 31   Study was completed  Recommendations ... little favour with GOB
December 1989, the study under Part F of the project      *n October 1988         d no substantive action has been taken.



BOTSWANA: National Land Management and Livestock Development (NLMLD)
Part III: Statistical Information
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Irnuts
To be completed by the World Bank
B. Missions
tage of Project Cycles            Month/Year  No. of people  Days in field Specializ. represented Performeance Rating            Type of Problems
Identification                       2/83          n.a.            n.a.               n.a.
Preparation                          6/84            4               21              L, E, S
Appraisal                            9/84            7               21           L, E, Y, I, W
Post-appraisal                       2/85            1               7                  L
Supervision    1                    11/85            1               -                  L                     1
2                    4/86            2               10                L, N                   1         Drought; Staffing
3                   10/86            5               10             L, C, W, N                2         Drought; Staffing; Ranch Credit
4                    2/87            1               7                  L                   n.a.
U'             5                    4/87            4               13
n'             6                   10/87            3               10             L, E, U                   2         Ranch Credit; Staffing
7                    5/88            4               10            L, E, U,W                  2         Staffing
8                    5/89            1               10                 E                     2         Policy; Ranch Credit
9                    8/89            2               10                E, L                   2          Institutional
*             10                    3/90            1               10                 E                     2         Ranch Credit; Group Ranches
11                   10/90            1               12                 E                     2         Legal; Institutional
H             12                    6/91            2              20                 E, F                   2         Legal; Institutional
H             13                    3/92            1             n.a.                 L                   n.a.        -
N             14                    9/92            2               9                 F, L                 n.a.        Ranch Credit
Project Completion                   4/93            2               10                F, U                   -          -
Key:  Specializations: L = Livestock; E = Economics; Y = Law; I x Institutions; W= Wildlife; N = Envirorment; C = Communal Area Mgt.;
U = Land Use; F = Finance.



BOTSWANA: National Land Management and Livestock Project (NLMLP)
Annex 1
Project Costs (US$'000)
As at 31 March
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992      1993           Total
COMPONENT
Land Use Planning
M_GL& H                             18.7       7.7       62.7      50.7      21.5       16.4       6.6                184.3
DLUPU                             201.3       39.3      39.6      217.1     388.1      154.2      91.0               1130.8
L.BOARD                                      247.3       40.1      92.9      176.9     684.1     104.2               1345.5
Sub-Total                 220.1     294.4      142.4     360.7      586.5     854.6     201.8               2660.6
Trek Route                           48.7      364.8     386.0      676.8     594.6      409.9     327.6               2808.3
Livestock Extension                  73.9      180.0      25.8      349.8     405.9    1216.9    1216.0                3468.3
Nat. Dev. Bark (Credlt)             179.4                603.5      242.7     381.7     522.7                          1930.0  \1
Project Coordinalion                           156.7     103.9      663.9     418.8     470.4      864.0               2677.7
Studies                                        137.1     268.3       66.1     115.0      154.7                          7412
Total                     592.3    1133.0    1428.9    2320.0    2438.6    3540.3    2609.3                14286.1
\1 Includes an estimated USS 324,000 of costs financed by sub-borrowers' contribulions.
Source: Pula denominated costs coruerted Into US$ equlvalert using average annual exchange rates provided by Ihe Bar* or Botswana.



BOTSUANA: National Land Management and Livestock Project (NLMLP)
Annex 2
Project Costs (BP'oo0)
As at 31 March
1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993           Total
COMPONENT
Land Use Planning                     35         13       114        102        40        33         14                 351
MLGL& H                                                                                 33        14                 21
DLUPU                               376        66        72        437       722       311        194                2178
L.BOARD                                       415        73        187       329      1380        222                2606
Sub-Total                  411       494        259       726      1091       1724       430                5135
Trek Routes                           91       612        702      1362       1106       827       698                 5398
Livestock Extenson                   138       .302        47       704        755      2455      2591                 6992
Nat. Dev. Bank (Credit)              279                  914       408        591       875                           3067
Prolect Coordination                 187       263        189      1336        779       949      1841                5544
Studies                                        230        488       133        214       312                           1377
Total                     1106      1901       2599      4669      4536      7142       5560               27513
Source: Project Coordination Unit. Gaborone.
_= = = = = = == = = = = = = =






IBRD 18776R
A N G O  L A    qIo Z A MB1
| ---~~~~~~~~~~c       NATIONAL LAND  MANAGiEMENT 
iH OB            AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
,,.<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
k.S               C I 
Srs  |   or">srrR  SOUT   AFIA O L50r   *    2tO '     li _ 'tlA
,  ;  _  O 40 10 12t, <_tot~1



