Report No. PIC4818
Project Name                   Benin-Private Sector Development
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Private Sector Development
Project ID                     BJPA39882
Borrower                       Government of the Republic of Benin
Implementing Agency            TBD during pre-appraisal
Environment Category           C
Initial PID Prepared           October 1996
Date this PID prepared         February 21, 1997
Appraisal Date                 September 1997
Projected Board Date           December 1997
Country/Sector Background
1.   Benin is a West African country of 5 million people with a total
GDP of US$ 2 billion. The country has been traditionally dependent on
production of primary commodities. The primary sector accounts for 37T
of total GDP and cotton provides the country's largest export commodity.
A large tertiary sector dominated by commerce accounts for 50 W of GDP
with a dynamic re-export activity to neighboring countries which
contributes for 64t of the country's total export. In contrast, the
country has a small industrial sector which accounts for about 13t of
GDP. The manufacturing formal sector has about 60 companies employing
5,000 people, whereas the informal sector has over 3,000 SMEs employing
more than 85,000 people. The key competitive advantages of the country
are political stability in a turbulent environment, a favorable
geographic location between Nigeria and landlocked countries (Niger,
Burkina, Mali) and a well-established tradition of transborder trading.
2.   Following a decade of economic decline, the Government of Benin
(GOB) launched a structural adjustment program in 1989 aimed at
restoring the condition for sustained growth and achieving viable
external and domestic financial position. The program included through
(i) rebuilding a sound banking system; (ii) establishing the basis for
a market economy through a policy of liberalization and privatization;
and (iii) restructuring of essential Government activities and
strengthening of priority social services.
3.   The CFA franc devaluation in 1994 provided new window of
opportunity for the Government to reinforce its stabilization and
structural adjustment program and target GDP growth of 5t to 6t in the
medium-term. Growth accelerated significantly in 1995, spurred by a
strong private sector supply response mainly in service activities, the
primary sector (led by cotton), and construction activities. However, a
more pro-active stance is required to maximize Benin's growth potential
and fully exploit opportunities created by political stability,
devaluation of the CFA franc and past macro-economic reforms. It must



build on the country's strengths; including a buoyant commerce sector,
a large pool of SMEs and a competitive cotton sector.
4.   The remaining key obstacles to a stronger and sustainable private
sector supply response include: (a) weak enabling environment, in
particular (i) outdated business law and inefficient judicial system;
(ii) weak institutional capacity of Government agencies and incipient
stage of public/private sector partnership; (b) SME and informal sector
which cannot expand to the levels of investment necessary for the
structural transformation of the economy and sustainability of growth
due to: (i) lack of access to finance and business support services; and
(ii) high production costs due to the narrow industrial base (inputs,
spare parts, packaging material etc.) (c) insufficient export
diversification (strong dependency on cotton) which increases Benin's
exposure to external shocks and limits growth opportunities; (d)
impediments to the fluidity of port operations and road transport which
constrain Benin's existing strength as a corridor economy; (e) low level
of financial intermediation; (f) inadequacy of technical and managerial
skills .
5.   The GOB's strategy as defined during the Private Sector Development
Round Table in 1994 and the recent Economic Conference in December 1996
aims at : (a) improving the legal and regulatory environment; (b)
strengthening private sector representations (i.e. Chamber of Commerce,
professional organizations, etc.); (c) upgrading the provision of
support services to entrepreneurs; and (d) improving the economic and
institutional infrastructure for domestic and export activities.
Specific actions undertaken by the Government to address sector issues
include participation in the OHADA initiative to update and harmonize
business laws at the regional level, and organization of a workshop
resulting in recommendations to address the deficiencies of the legal
and judicial system ('Etats generaux' de la Justice in December 1996).
Moreover, the Government has approached donors with plans to establish
an enterprise financing mechanism ('Fonds de Promotion Economique') and
to create an Export Processing Zone (EPZ). A Bank supported transport
project is designed to improve Benin's position as a 'corridor economy'.
The positive element in the Government's strategy is a clear commitment
to private sector development and the increasing role of the private
sector (mainly through the chamber of commerce) in the policy dialogue.
The potential danger is a reversion to a more interventionist role,
especially in export promotion ( EPZ) and in the financial sector (the
design of the 'Fonds de Promotion Economique' could be assimilated to a
privately managed, donor financed development bank).
Project Development Objectives
6.   The project's strategic development objectives are :    (a) to set up
a business-friendly environment by improving the legal and judicial
system, fostering public/private sector consultation, and removing
policy obstacles and administrative barriers to exports; and (b) boost
supply response, by providing finance and support to SMEs and micro-
enterprises, and by facilitating export development and diversification.
Project Description
-2-



7.   The project priorities will be organized around four components :
(a) Legal and judicial reforms component: This sub component will
provide support for: (i) the internalization of the new OHADA
business laws; (ii) the dissemination of legal and judicial
information; (iii) training of magistrates and reorganization of
offices of the clerks-of-courts, and (iii) the creation of
alternative mechanisms for dispute settlement outside the judicial
system (arbitration)
(b) Public/private sector partnership component, consisting of
(i) training and seminars for policy-makers and opinion leaders,
(ii) support to theestablishment of a permanent public/private
sector consultation mechanism, and, (iii) development and
implementation of a PSD communication strategy
(c) Enterprise Development Component: This component will build
on the experience drawn from two pilot mechanisms developed in
previous Bank projects to provide small and micro entrepreneurs with
access to business and financial support services through : (i)
setting up a mechanism to supply support services to SMEs (including
exporters) and professional associations as well as provide training
to consultants; (ii) provide financial and institutional support to
PAPME and PADME pilot projects; (iii) strengthen the micro finance
sector and its linkages with the banking sector; and (iv) develop
communication tools to improve the availability of information for
entrepreneurship.
(d) Export Promotion Component: As part of a longer term strategy,
this component aims at laying the foundations for taking advantage
of new opportunities in world niche markets. It will provide
support at three levels : (i) policy and strategy through : a)
helping Benin to define its strategic positioning and designing an
investment targeting action plan; b) removing policy constraints and
administrative barriers impeding exports; and (ii) Institution-
building through : a) action-plan and restructuring/merging of
export promotion institutions in order to improve their efficiency
as facilitator for access to trade information and markets,
organization of business tours to prospect foreign markets etc; and
(iii) Firm level assistance through the establishment of a
performance-based matching fund for exporters.
Project Costs and Financing
8. A credit equivalent to US$ 12 million has been proposed. The GOB
has committed US$ 2.4 million to finance the Private Sector Round Table
action-plan which provides the framework for the overall sector.
Detailed cost estimates for the project components a will be conducted
during the pre-appraisal mission.
Program Implementation
9. The Ministry of Industry and SME will be the Government counterpart
in this project. Given its multi-sectoral implications, the private
sector project will have different implementing agencies. The legal,
- 3-



regulatory and incentive component will be carried out by the Ministry
of Justice. The relevant implementing agencies for the remaining
components will be identified during preparation missions. It is
proposed that overall coordination for implementation will be conducted
by the Comite National de Suivi (CNS) of the Private Sector Round Table;
a Government/private sector steering committee, whereas day-to day
coordination will be carried out by the technical coordination unit
the Cellule d'Appui Technique (CAT), the operating arm of the CNS.
These arrangements will be confirmed during pre-appraisal mission.
Project sustainability
10. The following factors are critical to the sustainability of project
benefits:
(a)       Government remains committed to public / private
sector partnership and expands market economic
framework, including in sectors such as transport,
energy, telecommunications, and agriculture;
(b)       sufficient resources are allocated to a sustainable
improvement of the legal and judicial system.
Lessons from Bank-Group Involvement
11. The project's enterprise development component builds upon two
successful ongoing Bank-supported SME and micro-enterprise schemes in
Benin : With the SME pilot scheme (PAPME), a new financial mechanism was
set up to provide loans jointly with commercial banks. Since 1993, the
risk sharing process has gradually evolved (from 20/80 to 40/60) and
several banks are now using the mechanisms. The total amount of loans
disbursed by the pilot is 1 millions US$, the outstanding portfolio is
currently 0,6 million US$. The ultimate objective of the pilot is to
successfully transfer part of its portfolio to the banks overtime. With
the microfinance pilot scheme (PADME) more than 3000 microentrepreneurs
have been borrowing a total amount of 1.8 million US$, the outstanding
portfolio being 1.3 million US$. The high repayment rate and the growing
demand have enabled the pilot cover most of its operational costs. At
present PADME is entering the institutionalization phase. Technical
assistance will be provided in the proposed project to successfully
implement this critical stage for the sustainability of the institution.
The experience gained with these pilot schemes is reflected in the
design of the enterprise development component of the project.
12. IFC, FIAS and MIGA have initiated and implemented activities which
have contributed to the project design (FIAS review of Benin's
investment climate in 1992 and investor perception study in 1997,
MIGA/FIAS seminars on legal protection of private investment and
promotion of foreign investment). The ongoing policy dialogue,
particularly the Bank's involvement in Benin's Private Sector Round
Table (1994) and Economic Conference (1996 ) has integrated experience
gained from these specific activities. Moreover , the proposed project
draws heavily on Bank-wide best practice developed in micro-finance,
legal and judicial reform, export development, and matching grant design
and management.
-4-



Poverty Category
13. By focusing on the ways of fostering investments and promoting
sustainable growth, this program is consistent with the Bank's poverty
reduction strategy.    In addition, the program includes specific
mechanisms for targeting the poor through a tailored support to micro-
enterprises finance schemes and training.
Environmental aspects
14. The project has no environmental impact.
Project Objective Categories
15. The project will contribute to the following Bank Group objectives:
(a) private sector development; (b) local capacity building); and (c)
economic management.
Contact Point:       Elk Kreuzwieser, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-2939
Fax No.: (202)477-2978
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 14, 1997.
- 5 -



