Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS:  (A) the Association has received from the Borrower the Sectoral Policy 
documents dated November 1994, describing therein a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen the development of the private sector in the 
Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring therein, inter 
alia, the commitment of the Borrower to the execution of the Program;  
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by "Association de 
Développement des Exportations" (ADEX) with the assistance of the Borrower; and as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ADEX part of the proceeds 
of the Credit, as provided in this Agreement; 
(D)
Part C.1 of the Project will be carried out by "Agence pour la Promotion 
et l’Appui aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises" (PAPME) with the assistance of the 
Borrower, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PAPME 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(E)
Part C.2 of the Project will be carried out by "Association pour la 
Promotion et l’Appui au Développement des Micro-Entreprises" (PADME) with the 
assistance of the Borrower, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to PADME part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and  
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the PADME Project Agreement, the PAPME Project Agreement, the ADEX 
Project Agreement, all of even date herewith between the Association and PADME, PAPME, 
and ADEX, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"ADEX" or "Association de Développement des Exportations" means a 
non-profit public purpose serving company established pursuant to its Charter; 
(b)
"ADEX Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
ADEX, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the ADEX Project Agreement; 
(c)
"ADEX Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ADEX pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
ADEX Subsidiary Agreement; 
(d)
"Alafia" means "Consortium Alafia", a public purpose serving company 
consisting of a consortium of non-governmental organizations, established on 
May 27, 1997;
(e)
"Cadre de Concertation Secteur Public/Secteur Privé" means a consultative 
body to be established pursuant to a decree (Décret) of the Borrower; 
(f)
"CAT" means "Cellule d’Appui Technique", a technical unit within CNS (as 
hereinafter defined) established by "Arrêté interministériel No. 
13/MIPME/MPRE/DC/DPASI"; 
(g)
"ADEX Charter" means the charter of ADEX, dated February 16, 1999, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(h)
"CNS" means "Comité National de Suivi du Programme de Relance du Secteur 
Privé", a national committee established on November 4, 1994 by the Borrower to follow 
up on the recommendations of the Private Sector Round Table held in 1994; 
(i)
"Export Project" means a specific business or development project to be 
carried out by an Exporting Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) utilizing the proceeds 
of a Matching Grant; 
(j)
"Exporting Enterprise" means an enterprise, individual entrepreneur, 
merchant, public purpose serving company or organization which is engaged in 
production activities for export;
(k)
"Franc de la Communauté Financière d'Afrique" and "FCFA" mean the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise, individual entrepreneur, 
merchant, public purpose serving company or organization to which PAPME or PADME 
proposes to make or has made a Subloan or in which it proposes to make or has made an 
Investment; 
(m)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan; 
Page  3
(n)
"Matching Grant Enterprise" means an enterprise, individual entrepreneur, 
merchant, public purpose serving company or organization, other than an Exporting 
Enterprise, eligible to receive a Matching Grant from ADEX pursuant to the provisions 
of the Procedures Manual; 
(o)
"Matching Grant Fund" means a fund established or to be established under 
Part B.3 of the Project, for the purpose of matching the expenses incurred by 
Exporting Enterprises in carrying out Export Projects; 
(p)
"Matching Grant" means a matching grant to be provided to a Matching 
Grant Enterprise or Exporting Enterprise under Part B.3 of the Project;
(q)
"MFE" means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Economy and Finance; 
(r)
"Micro-Enterprise" means a micro-enterprise, individual entrepreneur, 
merchant, public purpose serving company or organization established and operating in 
the territory of the Borrower; 
(s)
"PADME" means "Association pour la Promotion et l’Appui au Développement 
des Micro-Entreprises", a financial institution established as a public purpose 
serving company pursuant to its Charter and recognized as serving the public interest 
by a decree of the Borrower dated May 18, 1999; 
(t)
"PADME Charter" means the charter of PADME, dated November 12, 1998, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(u)
"PADME Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
PADME of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the PADME Project 
Agreement; 
(v)
"PADME Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and PADME pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
PADME Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(w)
"PAPME" means "Association pour la Promotion et l’Appui aux Petites et 
Moyennes Entreprises", a financial institution established as a public purpose serving 
company pursuant to its Charter and recognized as serving the public interest by a 
decree of the Borrower dated May 18, 1999;  
(x)
"PAPME Charter" means the charter of PAPME, dated December 23, 1997, as 
may be amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(y)
"PAPME Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
PAPME, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the PAPME Project 
Agreement; 
(z)
"PAPME Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and PAPME pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
PAPME Subsidiary Financing Agreement; 
(aa)
"PARMEC Law" means "Loi No. 97-027 portant réglementation des 
Institutions Mutualistes ou Coopératives d’Epargne et de Crédit", a law for the 
supervision and regulation of Credit and Savings Cooperatives adopted by the Borrower 
on August 8, 1997;
(bb)
"Procedures Manual" means the manual setting out, inter alia, criteria, 
procedures and guidelines for the administration, promotion, appraisal and supervision 
of Matching Grants, referred to in Part A.1 of the Schedule to the ADEX Agreement as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include any schedules to the 
Procedures Manual; 
(cc)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
(dd)
"Project Implementation Plan" or "PIP" means the project implementation 
plan referred to in Part A of Schedule 4 of this Agreement as executed and submitted 
to the Association on October 9, 1999; 
Page  4
(ee)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(ff)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
June 20, 1997 and July 22, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(gg)
"SME" means a small or medium scale enterprise, "Petite ou Moyenne 
Entreprise", established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(hh)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(ii)
"Special Unit of MFE" or "Cellule Microfinance" means a special unit 
within MFE, which is in charge of supervising micro-finance institutions; 
(jj)
"Statement of Policy" means the policy statement setting forth the 
lending and investment policies as adopted and approved by the Board of Directors of 
PAPME and PADME respectively on February 11, 1999 and November 11, 1999, as amended to 
the date of this Agreement; and
(kk)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by PAPME or PADME to 
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the 
proceeds of the Credit relent to such entity under PAPME Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement or PADME Subsidiary Financing Agreement, respectively. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of an Investment or Matching Grant Enterprise under a 
Subloan or a Matching Grant, respectively, to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project or 
the Export Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested; and  
(ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Parts A, C.3 and D of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs, three (3) separate special deposit accounts, the PAPME Special Account for 
Part C.1 of the Project, the PADME Special Account for Part C.2 of the Project, and 
the CAT Special Account for Parts A and B of the Project to be implemented by ADEX as 
well as for Part D, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  5
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:  
(i) 
from the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement 
(the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; 
and  
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2010 and ending September 15, 
2039.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  
 
(i) 
the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) 
consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and 
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
Page  6
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Description of the Project 
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end shall carry out 
Part C.3 and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial practices and with due regard to environmental 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, 
shall cause PAPME, PADME and ADEX to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
PAPME Project Agreement, the PADME Project Agreement, and the ADEX Project Agreement 
respectively, all the obligations of PAPME, PADME and ADEX therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PAPME, PADME and ADEX 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
For the purposes of Part A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ADEX (the 
ADEX Subsidiary Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association, make available the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (2) (b), 5, (6) (a) and (6) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ADEX.
(d)
For the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, under a 
subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PAPME (the 
PAPME Subsidiary Financing Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, make available the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to Categories (1) (b), (2) (c), (3) and (6) (c) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to PAPME as a loan.
(e)
For the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, under a 
subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PADME (the 
PADME Subsidiary Financing Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, transfer the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to Categories (1) (c), (2) (d), (4) and (6) (d) of the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to PADME as a loan.
(f) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and 
Subsidiary Financing Agreements respectively, in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Agreement and Subsidiary 
Financing Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  7
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part C.1 of the 
Project shall be carried out by PAPME, in respect of Part C.2 of the Project shall be 
carried out by PADME, in respect of Part A and B of the Project shall be carried out 
by ADEX pursuant to Sections 2.03 of the respective Project Agreements. 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project, shall: 
(a)
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account (the 
Project Account) in FCFA in the Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an 
amount equivalent to twenty-five million FCFA (FCFA 25,000,000), to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
thereafter replenish said account up to an amount equal to fifteen 
million FCFA (FCFA 15,000,000) whenever its balance shall be less than ten million 
FCFA (FCFA 10,000,000) in each year during Implementation of the Project; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Parts C.3 and D of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made either (a) on the basis of Project Management Reports or \0b(b) 
on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources, expenditures of PAPME, PADME and ADEX in 
respect of the Project;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  8
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and \0b(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
PAPME, PADME and ADEX shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the PAPME, PADME and ADEX Project Agreements, respectively. 
(b)
As a result of events which shall have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen, which 
shall make it improbable that PAPME, PADME and ADEX will be able to perform their 
obligations under the PAPME, PADME and ADEX Project Agreements, respectively. 
(c)
Conventions No. 99 0002-C and 99 0001-C between the Borrower, PAPME and 
PADME, respectively, as amended to the date of this Agreement, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of PAPME or PADME to perform any of their obligations under the 
PAPME or PADME Project Agreements. 
(d)
The "Arreté interministériel No. 13/MIPME/MPRE/DC/DPASI" as law of the 
Borrower and as amended to the date of this Agreement shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of CAT to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(e)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
Page  9
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), and (d), of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein 
the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been entered into between the 
Borrower, PAPME and PADME, respectively and the ADEX Subsidiary Agreement has been 
entered into by the Borrower and ADEX; 
(c)
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system 
including a matching accounting manual satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
ADEX has appointed consultants in accordance with Section II of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement to operate the matching grant scheme; 
(e)
the Borrower has appointed to the staff of CAT a financial management 
expert, satisfactory to the Association, as required under Part B.1 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and 
(f)
the Borrower has established a "Cadre de Concertation Secteur 
Public/Secteur Privé" referred to in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: (a) the PAPME, PADME and ADEX Project 
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by PAPME, PADME and ADEX and are 
legally binding upon PAPME, PADME and ADEX respectively, in accordance with their 
terms; and (b)
the ADEX Subsidiary Agreement and the PAPME and PADME Subsidiary 
Financing Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by ADEX, PAPME and PADME, 
and are legally binding upon ADEX, PAPME and PADME respectively, in accordance with 
their terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III, Sections 3.01
 (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on 
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twelve (12) 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie
BP 301 
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Cable address
Telex:
MINFINANCES
5009 MINFIN or
Page  10
Cotonou
5289 MINFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cotonou, Benin, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Abdoulaye Bio-Tchane 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sidi Boubacar
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, Equipment and 
100% of foreign
vehicles
expenditures and
90% of local
(a)
under Part B 
   150,000
expenditures
(b)
under Part C.1
   250,000
(c)
under Part C.2 
   500,000
(d)
under Part D 
   200,000
(2)
Consultants’ services 
100% of expenses
and training
(a)
under Part A 
   700,000
(b)
under Part B 
 1,800,000
(c)
under Part C.1 
   600,000
Page  11
(d)
under Part C.2 
   300,000
(e)
under Part D 
 2,700,000
(3)
Subloans under Part C.1 
 4,000,000
100% of amounts  
disbursed
(4)
Subloans under Part C.2
 3,500,000
100% of amounts  
disbursed
(5)
Matching Grants
 2,900,000
(6)
Operating costs
90% of expenses
(a)
under Part A 
    50,000
(b)
under Part B
   950,000
(c)
under Part C.1
   700,000
(d)
under Part C.2 
   550,000
(e)
under Part D 
   550,000
(7)
Refunding of Project 
   700,000
Amounts due pur-
Preparation Advance
suant to Section 
2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
 1,100,000
TOTAL
22,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c) 
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management, marketing, monitoring and auditing, 
including office supplies, vehicles and equipment operation, transport, travel, per 
diem of Project staff and supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
expenditures under Category (5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 unless the 
Borrower has adopted a Procedures Manual satisfactory to the Association for the 
operation of the Matching Grant Fund; 
(b)
expenditures under Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 unless 
quarterly post-reviews of Subloans shall prove to have been made in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria, procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to the PAPME Project Agreement; and 
(c)
expenditures under Category (4) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 unless 
Subloans shall have been made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures 
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to the PADME 
Project Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
Page  12
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, consulting services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 
for individual consultants, as well as operating costs, Matching Grants and Subloans, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the business environment in 
the territory of the Borrower; (ii) enhance the competitiveness of its enterprises; 
and \0b(iii) improve the access of SMEs and Micro-Enterprises to credit.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Institution Building and Sector Partnership
1.
Organization of a policy dialogue and subsequent public awareness campaign, to 
bring together key representatives of the Borrower and the private sector through:
(i)
the establishment of the Cadre de Concertation Secteur 
Public/Secteur Privé; and
(ii)
the provision of technical advisory services for ADEX. 
2.
Restructuring of two textile companies, through the provision of technical 
advisory services.  
3.
Establishment of a regulatory framework for the telecommunication sector through 
provision of technical advisory services. 
4.
Carrying out of Borrower’s privatization program through provision of technical 
advisory services and acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Competitiveness of Enterprises 
1.
Strengthening of ADEX operations through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
2.
Carrying out studies and workshops to determine strategies and actions to 
promote exports. 
3.
Establishment and operation of the Matching Grant Fund for the provision of 
business, marketing and export support services, including technical and management 
advisory services to Matching Grant Enterprises. 
4.
Strengthening the process of information sharing and fostering of networking 
among exporters at the sectoral level through the provision of information technology 
services and acquisition of computer equipment, the compilation of a database on 
export markets and the restructuring of various entities involved in the provision of 
services to exporters. 
5.
Strengthening the development strategy for the establishment of an Export 
Processing Industrial Zone (EPIZ).
Part C:
Access to Credit 
1.
Operation of PAPME as an autonomous financial institution through acquisition of 
equipment, training of staff, provision of technical advisory services to management 
officers and provision of subloans to small and medium size Investment Enterprises. 
2.
Operation of PADME as an autonomous financial institution through acquisition of 
equipment, training of staff, provision of technical advisory services to management 
officers and provision of sub-loans to micro-enterprises. 
3.
Strengthening the microfinance sector through the carrying out of a training 
program for staff and the acquisition of equipment for the Special Unit and Alafia. 
Page  13
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Establishment and operation for CAT of a monitoring program of the accounting, 
disbursement, procurement, auditing and reporting obligations of PAPME, PADME and ADEX 
through the provision of technical advisory services and the training of staff.
2.
Carrying out of: (i) evaluation, midterm review and audit reporting activities 
of the Project by CAT; (ii) supervision of the overall implementation of the Project; 
and (iii) coordination of the activities financed under the Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods with an estimated 
value of $100,000 equivalent or more shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods/works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more but not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent per contract or up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping
Subject to availability of goods procured under Part C, paragraph 2 heretofore, 
Page  14
goods and works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
(a)
All contracts for goods and works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent 
or more shall be subject to the Association’s prior review. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the foregoing subparagraph, all first three contracts for 
goods and works in any calendar year, irrespective of their single or aggregate value, 
shall be submitted to the Association’s prior review.
(c)
With respect to each contract for international or national shopping 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the following procedures shall 
apply:  
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, technical advisory 
services from firms costing $100,000 equivalent or more, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for audit services for the Project, to the exception of 
Part B.3, and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per individual contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for the carrying out of audit requirements for the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Commercial Practices
(a)
Technical advisory services to assist PAPME and PADME in carrying out 
activities under Part C.1 and C.2 of the Project and estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable 
to the Association.
(b)
Services to assist ADEX in carrying out activities under Part B.3 for the 
operation of the Matching Grant Fund may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices acceptable to the Association, and the relevant provisions of its Procedures 
Manual. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical advisory assistance for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning  
(a)
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
(b)
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed Procedures Manual referred to under Part C.1 (b) of the present Schedule 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, technical evaluation report, 
terms of references and copy of proposals, if requested, shall be submitted to the 
Association and the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for: (i) the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000; and (ii) amendments to contracts with consulting firms which upgrade the 
value of the base contract to $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. With respect to contracts for 
audit services procured under Part C, paragraph 1 of the present Schedule, the 
shortlist, selection report, qualifications experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment shall be submitted to the Association for its prior review.
(c)
With respect to each contract for: (i) the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) amendments 
to individual contracts which upgrade the value of the base contract to $50,000 
equivalent or more, the shortlist, selection report, qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded or the 
amendment shall become effective only after said approval shall have been given. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all first three (3) procurement contracts for technical 
advisory services relating to the Matching Grant Scheme, irrespective of their single 
or aggregate value, in any calendar year, shall be submitted to the Association for 
Page  16
its prior review.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Main Provisions of the PIP
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with the 
performance indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the procurement 
procedures acceptable to the Association set forth in the PIP, and shall not amend 
such PIP or waive any provision thereof, which in the opinion of the Association, will 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project, and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 15 and August 15 of each year, 
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section (including the semi-annual updates of the 
procurement requirements and procedures), on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the dates of said reports and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such dates; 
(c)
review with the Association, by March 15 and September 15, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the 
matter; 
(d)
the Borrower shall no later than December 31, 2000 specifically carry out 
jointly with the Association a financial management system review to evaluate the 
financial management system in place, and subject to the Association’s approval, open 
and maintain one additional Special Account for the operations of ADEX;
(e)
the Borrower shall no later than December 31, 2001 carry out jointly with 
the Association a "mid-term" review.  Such review shall: (i) assess the overall 
progress in the implementation of the Project; (ii) evaluate the Matching Grant Fund 
scheme and make recommendations for any modifications; (iii) review the proposals for 
action determined through the dialogue process between the Borrower and 
representatives of its private sector; (iv) evaluate the competitiveness and export 
increase outputs; and (v) review Project coordination activities; and  
(f)
based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare a revised 
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the 
Project, and shall thereafter implement such action plan. 
B.
Accounting and Environment 
1.
The Borrower shall appoint a financial management expert to the staff of CAT, 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
The Borrower shall carry out an environmental assessment of the Project and 
furnish the report of such assessment to the Association not later than March 31, 
2000.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the PAPME Special 
Page  17
Account, Categories (1) (b), (2) (c), (3) and (6) (c), set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of the PADME Special Account 
Categories (1) (c), (2) (d), (4) and (6) (d), set forth in the said table; and in the 
case of ADEX activities to be financed out of the CAT Special Account, Categories (1) 
(a), (2) (b), (5) and (6) (b), set forth in the said table. 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services and operating expenses required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of the PAPME Special Account to three hundred 
million FCFA (FCFA 300,000,000); in the case of the PADME Special Account to three 
hundred million FCFA (FCFA 300,000,000); and in the case of CAT Special Account to 
three hundred million FCFA (FCFA 300,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited in the respective Special Accounts in accordance with paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation for: 
(i) 
the PAPME Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to one hundred fifty million FCFA (FCFA 150,000,000) until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated 
to Categories (1) (b), (2) (c), (3) and (6) (c), plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Part C.1 of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of one million SDR (SDR 1,000,000);
(ii) 
the PADME Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to one hundred fifty million FCFA (FCFA 150,000,000) until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated 
to Categories (1) (c), (2) (d), (4) and (6) (d), plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Part C.2 of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of one million SDR (SDR 1,000,000); and 
(iii)
the CAT Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to one hundred fifty million FCFA (FCFA 150,000,000) until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated 
to Categories (1) (a), (1) (d), (2) (a), (2) (b), (2) (e), (5), 
(6) (a), (6) (b), and (6) (e), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A, B 
and D of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
one million SDR (SDR 1,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals, as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  18
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Assoiation shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  19
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
The Borrower shall use the performance indicators for monitoring and evaluating 
the carrying out of the Project, as set forth below:
1.
The Borrower shall use a first type of indicators, which shall measure progress 
against physical and financial parameters.  These will be traced by coding all Project 
expenditures by component, type of activity, sub-activity, and category of 
procurement, disbursement and source of funding.  The resulting information will be 
collated under the Project’s financial management system through the use of 
appropriate and fully tested commercial software.  This software will also record 
information on pending financial commitments.  Data will then be available, inter 
alia, on expenditures, commitments and statistics of activities by component, source 
of funding, and period of execution.  Achievements will be measured against 
disbursement rate and provisions of the Project Implementation Plan.
2.
The Borrower shall use a second type of indicators which shall consist of the 
following limited number of key actions aimed at providing a first indication of the 
performance of the Project in relation to its objectives, as follows:
(a)
Year 2000:
(i)
Adoption by the Borrower of a new telecommunication law to open up 
the sector to competition. 
(ii)
Completion of an inventory of micro credit financial institutions 
by the Ministry of Finance. Full operation of the Matching Grant 
scheme and award of at least 15 grants. Appointment of the 
Government exports coordinator. 
(iii)
Completion of the study on Benin’s competitiveness profile. 
Launching of the first study to increase exports.
(b)
Year 2001 Adoption of the implementing decrees of the telecommunication 
law by the Borrower and startup of its regulatory agency operations. Completion of the 
splitting up of the Borrower’s Post and Telecommunication Company, and launching of 
the call for bids for the privatization of two textile companies and the 
Telecommunication Company. Adoption of new prudential regulations for micro credit 
financial institutions by the Borrower and setting-up of the micro-finance database. 
Award of 40 additional grants under the Matching Grant scheme. Establishment by PAPME 
and PADME of a modernized Management Information Systems. Launching of three (3) 
studies to remove policy and administrative obstacles to exports and of two (2) other 
studies on increasing exports. Operation of the trade information center located 
within ADEX. Maintaining portfolio at risk in PAPME and PADME under 8%.  Increase of 
portfolio by 20% and stabilization of collection rate between 92 and 95%. 
(c)
Year 2002 Completion of studies for the institutional transformation of 
PAPME and PADME. Annual supervision of all micro-finance institutions that do not meet 
prudential regulations. Adoption of common performance and accounting standards for 
micro-finance institutions by Alafia. Award of 40 additional grants are under the 
Matching Grant scheme. Launching of three (3) additional studies to remove obstacle to 
investments and of two (2) aimed at increasing exports. 
(d)
Year 2003  Covering by PAPME and PADME of all their costs, stabilization 
of collection rates and portfolio at risk respectively below 8% and above 92%. 
(i)
Increasing of the total number of grants since inception beyond 
160. Launching of three (3) additional studies to remove obstacle 
to investments and of two (2) aimed at increasing exports. 
(e)
Year 2004 Completion of PAPME and PADME institutional changes and 
subsequent transformation into two (2) fully fledged financial institutions; with 
average size of portfolio increasing by 20% a year while collection rates and 
portfolio at risk remain at the same level as previously. 
(ii)
On average, increase of non-traditional exports since inception of 
the project by 15% a year.
Page  20
(iii)
Award of a total number of grants in excess of 200. 
(iv)
1.6% reach in teledensity.
