Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
PADME Project Agreement
(Private Sector Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT DES MICRO-ENTREPRISES
Dated December 30,1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1999 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT DES 
MICRO-ENTREPRISES (PADME).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
PADME agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PADME part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to PADME on terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS PADME in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PADME declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out part C.2 of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with appropriate administrative, economic, financial, technical and 
commercial practices, with qualified and experienced management and in accordance with 
its Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PADME shall otherwise agree, PADME shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan referred to in Schedule 
4 to the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) PADME undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures, eligibility criteria 
and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Statement of Policy or referred to in 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
PADME shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subloan in such 
manner as to: 
(i)
protect the interests of the Association and of PADME; 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, investments 
required for the Project and to be financed out of part of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PADME shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part C.2 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PADME shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and PADME, a plan for the 
future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with PADME on said plan.
Section 2.05. PADME shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PADME shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
Section 2.06. (a) PADME shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C.2 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement; and
(b)
PADME shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C.2 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PADME of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and operations of PADME
Section 3.01. PADME shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial, and technical assistance 
and commercial practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PADME shall at all times administer and operate the Subloans in 
accordance with the Statement of Policy, and otherwise with sound administrative, 
economic, financial and technical assistance and commercial practices, and pursuant to 
the provisions of this Agreement.  PADME shall not, without the prior written 
agreement of the Association, amend or otherwise alter the Statement of Policy or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.03. PADME shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association, for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PADME shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of Part C.2 of the Project and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of PADME and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part C.2 of the Project.
(b)
PADME shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
so audited; and 
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  4
Section 4.02. PADME shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the various currencies used in its operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PADME thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PADME of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI 
AU DÉVELOPPEMENT DES MICRO-ENTREPRISES:
PADME Carré 647 Cadjehoun
Rue de la Polyclinique "les Cocotiers"
08 BP 712 Tri Postal
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Page  5
Facsimile: 
(229) 30 23 78
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PADME or by 
PADME on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its duly authorized representatives, or by such other person or persons 
as PADME shall designate in writing, and PADME shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cotonou, Benin, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sidi Boubacar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI AU 
   DEVELOPPEMENT DES MICRO-ENTREPRISES
By /s/ Francois O. Tankpinou
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
General Terms and conditions for Subloans and Investments
A.
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Enterprises under Part C.2 of the Project
1.
Notwithstanding the more detailed provisions set forth in the Statement of 
Policy, the following criteria shall apply to all Subloans:
(a) 
verification of ownership and management by the private sector;
(b) 
evaluation of the solvency and financial position of the Investment 
Enterprise;
(c) 
evidence that Subloans are to be used only for inputs, exports, working 
capital or investments;
(d) 
evidence that Subloans are not intended for any illegal activity or 
purpose, as determined by the Laws of the Borrower, or for consumption of luxury 
items; and
(e) 
evidence that the proposed activities comply with regulatory and 
Page  6
environmental standards in accordance with the laws of the Borrower.
B.
Terms and Conditions
1.
Except as the Board of PADME may from time to time decide, subject to the 
Association’s prior approval, the maximum size of a Subloan shall be FCFA five million 
(CFA 5,000,000) equivalent for any single Investment Enterprise or groups of 
Investment Enterprises. 
2.
The Subloans shall cover 90% of the cost of the Investment Project.
3.
PADME shall consult with the Borrower and the Association annually to determine 
the refinancing rate policy to be applied with respect to interbank rates.
4.
PADME shall conform to the relevant provisions of the Parmec Law with regard to 
interest rates accruing on the Subloans.
5.
Subloans’ maturity shall not in any case exceed 10 years.
6.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a) 
PADME has conducted a detailed assessment of the Investment Project, the 
capital adequacy, asset quality, collection risks, default status vis-a-vis other 
financial institutions, liquidity position to be maintained in order to meet maturing 
obligations, operating expenses and debt-servicing liabilities of the Investment 
Enterprise; and
(b)
the Subloans and Investments shall have been made on terms whereby PADME 
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association 
and PADME including, in the case of any Subloan and, to the extent that it shall be 
appropriate, in the case of any Investment, the right to:
(i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial 
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price, 
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as 
time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts 
therefor, 
and, in the case of services, of their quality and 
the competence 
of the parties rendering them; and (B) such goods and 
services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods, 
works, and construction included in the Investment Project, 
the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
require that: (A) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against 
such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice; and (B) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to 
the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or 
installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in 
a currency freely 
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace 
or repair such 
goods;
Page  7
(v)
obtain all such information as the Association or PADME shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from 
the 
Investment Project; and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the 
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with 
PADME.
C.
Association’s Post Review
1.
PADME shall submit to the Association, on a monthly basis, a written summary 
report of all Subloans granted during the previous month, which shall include, inter 
alia, the following:
(a)
the corporate or individual names of the Investment Enterprises;
(b)
the various activities financed under the Subloans;
(c)
the amount of each Subloan;
(d)
the respective terms and conditions of the Subloans; and
(e)
the type and size of collateral secured by PADME for each Subloan, if 
applicable.
2.
PADME shall submit to the Association quarterly portfolio management reports in 
respect of Subloans, setting forth therein the status and the progress of said 
portfolio for the period preceding the date of said report.
3.
PADME shall submit to the Association, annually, financial and accounting audits 
relative to its lending activities which are financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
