Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
ADEX Project Agreement
(Private Sector Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSOCIATION DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES EXPORTATIONS
Dated December 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1999 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and ASSOCIATION DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES EXPORTATIONS (ADEX).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
ADEX agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ADEX parts of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to ADEX on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS ADEX in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, the term 
"APEX Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02 (b) of the Credit 
Agreement and the following additional terms have s the following meanings:
"Exporting Enterprise" means an enterprise which  is engaged in export 
trade activities "Matching Grant Subproject" means a specific activity financed or 
proposed to be financed through a Matching Grant made under Part B.3 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ADEX declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, and commercial 
practices; and shall specifically cause to be provided, promptly, as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A and B of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ADEX shall otherwise agree, ADEX shall specifically 
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,, procurement of the 
consultants' services  procurement of the consultants’ services required for Parts A 
and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. ADEX shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of Parts A and B of the Project. 
Section 2.04. ADEX shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADEX shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement and the Procedures Manual, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ADEX shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
(b)
ADEX shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A and B of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Matching Grant Fund, or the 
performance by ADEX of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
(c)
ADEX shall participate fully in the review referred to in paragraph 1 (d) 
of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, and to this end, shall furnish to 
the Borrower and to the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose 
and in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request on the 
progress and status of its financial management and accounting system. 
ARTICLE III
Management and operations of ADEX
Section 3.01. ADEX shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices, under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADEX shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ADEX shall:
Page  3
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
have its technical and managerial performance with respect to the 
operations of the Matching Grant scheme for each fiscal year 
audited by said auditors, having regard to the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Procedures Manual;
(iii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(vi)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
ADEX shall:
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate separately on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
sound accounting practice and the relevant provisions of the 
Procedures Manual, the carrying out of the operation and 
management of the Matching Grant Fund;
(ii) 
submit to the Association for its review and approval, as the case 
may be, before each fiscal year: (A) a proposed annual work 
program, including a proposed budget and financing plan concerning 
the Matching Grant Fund for the forthcoming fiscal year; and (B) 
semiannual and annual progress reports on the operation and status 
of the Matching Grant Fund, including feedback and completion 
reports; and
(iii) review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
operations of the Matching Grant Fund and the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on 
the matter.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ADEX thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify ADEX of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
Page  4
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ASSOCIATION DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES EXPORTATIONS:
01 BP 31 
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Facsimile: 
(229) 31 32 99
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADEX or by 
ADEX on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the President or the Vice-President of the Board of Directors or by such 
other person or persons as ADEX shall designate in writing, and ADEX shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
Cotonou, Benin, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sidi Boubacar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES EXPORTATIONS
By /s/ Francois O. Tankpinou
Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program 
A.
General
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADEX shall: (i) apply criteria, 
policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Procedures Manual; and (ii) not 
amend, waive or permit to be amended or waived the Procedures Manual, or any provision 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
ADEX shall operate under the overall control of a board of directors (the Board) 
which shall:
(a) 
subject to such changes in membership as the Borrower and the Association 
may from time to time determine, consist of:
(i)
two representatives of export-trading professional agencies having 
full legal capacity and which are members of ADEX;
(ii)
two representatives of export-products manufacturing professional 
agencies having full legal capacity and which are members of ADEX;
(iii)
an export trading individual who is a member of ADEX;
(iv)
an export-products individual manufacturer who is a member of 
ADEX;
(v)
a representative from the "Conseil National des Chargeurs";
(vi)
a representative from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of 
Benin;
(vii)
a representative of the "Conseil National pour l’Exportation";
(viii)a representative of the banking sector appointed by the 
"Association Professionnelle des Banques et Etablissements 
Financiers"; and
(ix)
two representatives of the Borrower appointed respectively by the 
Ministry in charge of Commerce and the Ministry in charge of 
Industry; 
(b) 
report to the Association and the Borrower progress made by ADEX in 
carrying out Parts A.1, A.3 and B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project;
(c) 
ensure that the provisions of this Agreement and the guidelines 
established hereunder are observed generally and specifically with respect to the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(d) 
review and transmit to the Association approvals of the Board granted 
under this Schedule and the Procedures Manual; and
(e) 
oversee the carrying out of the operations by the Management Team 
referred to in paragraph 3 below.
3. 
ADEX shall establish and thereafter maintain, in a form and with functions and 
staffing satisfactory to the Association, its management team (the Management Team) 
which shall, subject to such changes as the Borrower and the Association may from time 
to time determine, consist of:
(i) 
a Secretary General;
(ii) 
a representative of a private consulting firm appointed to manage 
the Matching Grant Fund for the first two (2) years of operations; 
and
(iii)
a Beninese employee responsible for managing the Matching Grant 
Fund after the first two (2) years of operations referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) above. 
Page  6
B.
Eligibility criteria for Matching Grants 
1.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section A above, no 
Enterprise shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Matching Grant 
Fund unless ADEX has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in the Procedures Manual that the Matching Grant 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in 
the Procedures Manual, which shall, inter alia, include the following:
(a) 
Subprojects shall be initiated by any enterprise or pools of enterprises;
(b) 
eligibility for Matching Grants shall not be restricted to members of 
ADEX;
(c) 
Subprojects shall be economically, financially, environmentally and 
technically sound in accordance with criteria specified in the Procedures Manual;
(d) 
adequate arrangements are in place for the financing of maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent expenses, if any, related to the Matching Grant 
Subproject; and
(e) 
a Matching Grant Enterprise shall contribute at least 50% of Matching 
Grant Subprojects costs, and Matching Grant Subprojects to be carried out by two or 
more Matching Grant Enterprises shall contribute at least 30% of the Matching Grants 
Subproject costs, as further specified in the Procedures Manual. 
C.
Terms and conditions of Matching Grants
1.
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Matching Grant Agreements to be 
concluded between ADEX and the Matching Grant Enterprise, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which inter alia, shall include the following:
(a) 
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Procedures Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Matching Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement and shall be used exclusively in 
carrying out the Matching Grant Subproject;
(d) 
the right of ADEX to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Association, 
if the Association shall so request, the goods, worksites, plants and construction 
included in the Matching Grant Subproject; 
(e)
the right of ADEX to obtain all information as ADEX or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Matching Grant Subproject; and
(f) 
the right of ADEX to suspend or terminate the right of the Matching Grant 
Enterprise to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant Fund upon failure by the Matching 
Grant Enterprise to perform any of its obligations under the Matching Grant Agreement.
2.
ADEX shall submit to the Association for its review or approval, as the case may 
be:
(a) 
before the beginning of each fiscal year, a proposed annual work program, 
including a proposed budget and financing plan for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
(b) 
semi-annual and annual progress reports on the status of the Matching 
Grant Fund, including regular feedback reports and Matching Grant Subproject 
completion reports. 
D.
Support to Exporting Enterprises
1.
The Board of ADEX shall determine the eligibility and conditions for 
access to the following services:
Page  7
(a) 
technical advisory services;
(b) 
computer, database and information technology services;
(c)
marketing, financial, appraisal and management services;
(d) 
competitiveness enhancing services; and 
(e) 
workshops, on-the-job training, site visits, staff training, courses, 
assistance in trade fair organization.
2. 
ADEX shall collect from its members:
(a) 
annual membership fees in reasonable amounts, as determined by the Board 
in consultation with the Management Team; and
(b) 
consultants’ fees and other participatory fees for certain activities and 
services rendered to its members. 
