Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
PAPME Project Agreement
(Private Sector Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI AUX PETITES ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
Dated December 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3296 BEN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1999 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI AUX PETITES ET MOYENNES 
ENTREPRISES (PAPME).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
PAPME agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PAPME part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to PAPME on terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS PAPME in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement , the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
Page  2
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PAPME declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part C.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and conduct 
its operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial, economic, technical, 
commercial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and in 
accordance with its Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PAPME shall otherwise agree, PAPME shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Program Plan referred to set 
forth in Schedule 4 to the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) PAPME undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures, eligibility criteria, 
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Statement of Policy 
and the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
PAPME shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subloan or Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of 
PAPME; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement; and \0b(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project. Section 2.03. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of technical advisory 
services investments required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 23 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PAPME shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part C.1 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PAPME shall: (i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and PAPME, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and (ii)
afford 
the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with PAPME on said plan.
Section 2.05. PAPME shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financial Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PAPME shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) PAPME shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C.1 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement.
(b)
PAPME shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C.1 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PAPME of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and operations of PAPME
Section 3.01. PAPME shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial, technical assistance and 
commercial practices, under the supervision of experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PAPME shall at all times administer and process Subloans and 
Investments in accordance with the Statement of Policy, and otherwise in accordance 
with sound administrative, economic, financial, technical assistance and commercial 
practices and pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.  PAPME shall not, without 
Page  3
the prior written agreement of the Association, amend or otherwise alter the Statement 
of Policy or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. PAPME shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PAPME shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of Part C.1 of the Project (including its cost and the 
benefits to be derived from it and to reflect, in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of PAPME 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part 
C.1 of the Project. 
(b)
PAPME shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. PAPME shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the various currencies used in its operations.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 501. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PAPME thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PAPME of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  4
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI 
   AUX PETITES ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES:
PAPME Zone résidentielle
Ancienne Maison de la Radio
08 BP 1155
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Facsimile:
(229) 313726
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PAPME or by 
PAPME on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its duly authorized representatives, or by such other person or persons 
as PAPME shall designate in writing, and PAPME shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cotonou, Benin, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sidi Boubacar
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE POUR LA PROMOTION ET L’APPUI AUX
   PETITES ET MOYENNES ENTREPRISES
By /s/ Henriette Yamadjako
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
General Terms and conditions for Subloans and Investments 
A.
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Enterprises under Part C.1 of the Project
Page  5
Notwithstanding the more detailed provisions set forth in the Statement of 
Policy, the following criteria shall apply to Subloans:
1.
The board of directors of PAPME (the Board) shall be responsible for selecting 
Investment Enterprises previously short-listed by PAPME’ s management officers (the 
Management) on the basis of criteria which shall include, inter alia: 
(a) 
verification of ownership and management by the private sector;
(b) 
evaluation of the solvency and financial position of the Investment 
Enterprise;
(c) Registration of Investment Enterprise with Borrower’s company registry 
(registre du commerce et des sociétés) ;
(d)
evidence that Subloans are to be used only for inputs, exports, working 
capital or investments;
(e)
evidence that Subloans are not intended for any illegal activity or 
purpose, as determined by the Laws of the Borrower, or for consumption of luxury 
items; and
(f) 
evidence that the proposed activities comply with regulatory and 
environmental standards in accordance with the laws of the Borrower. 
B.
Terms and conditions 
1.
Except as the Board of PAPME may from time to time decide, subject to the 
Association’s prior approval, the minimum maximum size of a Subloan shall be 
$FCFA forty million (CFA 40,000,000) equivalent for single Investment Enterprises and 
equivalent for groups of Investment Enterprises, and their maximum shall be $100,000 
equivalent and $140,000 equivalent respectively 
2.
The Subloans shall cover 90% of the cost of the Investment Project.  
3.
PAPME shall consult with the Borrower, the West African Regional Central Bank 
(BCEAO) and the Association annually, to determine the applicable refinancing rate 
policy for applicable inter-bank rates. to be charged from time to time to Investment 
Enterprises.
4.
PAPME shall conform to the relevant provisions of the Parmec Law with respect to 
the interest rates accruing on the Subloans.
5.
Subloans’ maturity shall not in any case exceed 10 years.
6.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a) 
PAPME has conducted a detailed assessment of the Investment Project, the 
capital adequacy, asset quality, collection risks, default status vis-a-vis other 
financial institutions, liquidity position to be maintained in order to meet maturing 
obligations, operating expenses and debt-servicing liabilities of the Investment 
Enterprise.
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days 
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph B6 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(c)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the 
date on which the Association shall have received the request and information required 
under paragraph B6 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For 
the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit 
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of (i) equivalent, when 
added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to 
time as determined by the Association. 
Page  6
6.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) or an 
Investment to the Association for approval, PAPME shall furnish to the Association an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with (i) a description 
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment of the amount of the Credit to be used 
for the Investment; and (iii) such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by PAPME for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before Subloans and Investments shall have been made on terms whereby PAPME shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and PAPME 
including, in the case of any Subloan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, 
in the case of any Investment, the right to:
(i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial 
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be [purchased at a reasonable price, 
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, 
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence 
of the parties rendering them] [procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement]; and (B) such goods 
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods, 
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)
require that: (A) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice; and (B) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely 
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such 
goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Association or PAPME shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the 
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with 
PAPME. 
C.
Association’s Post Review
1.
PAPME shall submit to the Association, on a monthly basis, a written summary 
report of all Subloans granted and Investments made during the period preceding said 
Page  7
report, which shall include, inter alia:
(a)
the corporate or individual names of the Investment Enterprises;
(b)
the various activities financed under the Subloans;
(c)
the amount of each Subloan;
(d)
the respective terms and conditions of the Subloans; and
(e)
the type and size of collateral secured by PAPME for each Subloan. 
2.
PAPME shall submit to the Association quarterly portfolio management reports in 
respect of Subloans, setting forth therein the status and progress of said portfolio 
for the period preceding the date of said report. 
3.
PAPME shall submit to the Association, annually, financial and accounting audits 
relative to its lending activities which are financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
