                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000774




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-32960 IDA-3296A)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION
                        (US$ 30.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                      FOR A

                  PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                   June 27, 2008




Finance and Private Sector Development
Western and Central Africa
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective November, 2007)

                                Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                 CFA Franc 450 = US$ 1
                                 US$ 1.44899 = SDR 1

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 ­ June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEX     Exporters' association (Association pour le développement des exportations)
ALAFIA   Network of micro-finance institutions (Réseau d'établissements accordant des micro-
         credits)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CAT      Technical coordination unit (Comite d 'Appui Technique)
CBCE     National Center for External Trade (Centre béninois du commerce extérieur
CCI      Chamber of commerce (Chambre de commerce et d 'industrie)
CIDA     Canadian Intenational Development Agency
CNCB     Shippers' council (Conseil national des chargeurs du Benin)
CNS      Oversight committee (Comité national de suivi)
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EPZ      Export promotion zone
IDA       International Development Agency
MTR       Mid-term review
OHADA    Regional initiative to update business laws
PADME    Credit Institution for Micro-enterprises, (Association pour la promotion et l'appui au
         développement des micro-entreprises)
PAPME    Credit institution for Small and Medium Enterprises, (Agence pour la promotion et
         l'appui aux petites et moyennes entreprises)
PARMEC Regional law on micro-finance (Projet d 'Appui à la Réglementation sur les Mutuels
         d'Epargne et de Credit)
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PSD      Private Sector Development
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QER      Quality Enhancement Review
SBEE     Electricity and Water company (Société Beninoise de l'Eau et de l'Electricité)
SME      Small and medium enterprise



                 Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
     Country Director (Acting): Antonella Bassani
               Sector Manager: Iradj Alikhani
    Project Team Leader at ICR: Papa Demba Thiam
             ICR Team Leader: Amadou Dem

                                                 BENIN
                 PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 6
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 32
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 34
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 35
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Benin - Private Sector
Country:                Benin                  Project Name:
                                                                      Project
Project ID:             P039882                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-32960,IDA-3296A
ICR Date:               06/25/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:              GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                        XDR 22.2M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 20.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Association pour le Développement des Exportations (ADEX)
Cellule des Operations de Dénationalisation
PADME-Micro-Entreprise
PAPME (PME)
Cellule de Micro-finance
Consortium Alafia
Cellule Appui Technique (Project Coordination unit)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NA

B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/18/1997     Effectiveness:        08/31/2000        08/31/2000
Appraisal:             06/28/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/30/1999     Mid-term Review:       12/2001          03/08/2004
                                      Closing:              12/31/2004        12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately unsatisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory         Implementing           Moderately satisfactory

                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately               Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            unsatisfactory           Performance:           unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                    Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
                                                 Quality of
Problem Project at any
                           Yes                   Supervision (QSA):    Marginally satisfactory
time (Yes/No):
                                                 Yes
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 17
Micro- and SME finance                                            55
Other domestic and international trade                            28




Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                           Primary           Primary
Other financial and private sector development                   Primary           Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary           Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                              Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization           Secondary          Primary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Antonella Bassani (Acting)         Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Iradj A. Alikhani                  Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:       Papa Demba Thiam                   Eric F. Boucheny
ICR Team Leader:           Amadou Dem
ICR Primary Author:        Amadou Dem

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the project is to improve Benin's business environment, local enterprises'
competitiveness, and access of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and micro-
enterprises to credit. This would in turn help the country diversify its economy and reach
its goal of achieving a GDP growth of at least 5 percent per annum over the coming years.

The project will address lingering constraints in the regulatory and institutional
framework for private sector development, through an improved dialogue between
business representatives and Government and accelerated privatization of some key
enterprises. It will seek to enhance the competitiveness of enterprises and help them
become more efficient and export-oriented through support to export associations and
firms. Finally, it will help strengthen two promising financial institutions, the credit
institution for micro-enterprises (PADME) and the credit institution for small and
medium enterprises (PAPME).


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDO were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
The result table was slightly revised to include the new indicators added after the midterm review

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                                                    OUTCOME
Indicator 1 :    Private Investment rate increases from 12% of GDP in 1998 to 15% in 2004.
Value
quantitative or             12%                     15%                                13.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/1998              12/31/2004                             2007
Comments
(incl. %         The objective is not achieved. Data for 2007 is from the IMF
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Non-traditional exports (all exports less cotton and re-exports) increase by 15%
                 p.a.
Value                     Shrimps                                                      -30%
quantitative or         Cashew nuts               15% p.a.                              2%
Qualitative)             Pineapple                                                      12%
Date achieved               2001                12/31/2004                             2006
Comments         Data above are in volume. In value, exports of shrimps decreased by 10%.
(incl. %         Exports of cashew nuts and pineapple increased by 3 and 12% respectively.
achievement)     Overall, the objectives were not achieved.

               Source: Institute National of Statistics (INSAE). Data for 2000 and 2007 are not available
Indicator 3 :  Portfolio of PAPME and PADME to increase by 20% per annum
               PADME number of                                                           PADME number of
Value          clients: 14,330                                                           clients: 29,732
quantitative or
Qualitative)   PAPME number of                                                           PAPME number of
               clients: 1,416                                                            clients: 10,020
Date achieved 12/31/2000                        12/31/2007                               12/31/2007

Comments       Portfolio of PADME increased on average by 13 percent per year (lower than the

(incl. %       target).

achievement)    Portfolio of PAPME increased on average by 44 percent per year (twice the
               target).
                                                            OUTPUT

Indicator 4 :  Business satisfaction with progress on reforms to improve the investment climate
               is over 60%
Value
quantitative or               na                           na                  na                    Na
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        No survey was done during the project. The need to carry out the survey was
(incl. %       overlooked. Measuring progress in this indicator required both a baseline survey
achievement)   (which was not conducted) and a follow survey.

Indicator 5 :  The two textile companies (Sitex and Sobetex) are transferred to private
               operators in a transparent and competitive way
Value
quantitative or                                                                           Not achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        The two companies were not privatized under the project. Two offers for sale

achievement)   prepared were unsuccessful. Investors were not interested.

               Telecom sector liberalized. New Legal and regulatory framework adopted in the
Indicator 6 :  telecom sector. Telecom regulatory Agency established. Access to basic
               telephone services increase from 0.6% to 1.4% (teledensity)
                - Teledensity (fix): 0.6                                                 Teledensity (fix): 1.04

                        Cost of call                                                            Cost of call
               - (Fix to fix): Fcfa 80                                                    - Fcfa 50

Value          - (Mob. to Mob.): Fcfa 250                                                - Fcfa 80, 50, 45 and
quantitative or                                                                           20 F depending on
Qualitative)                                                                             the provider

               - Fixed line and mobile                                                    - % of Fixed line and
               phone subscribers (per 100                                                mobile phone
               people): 1%                                                               subscribers (per 100
                                                                                         people): 25%
Date achieved               1998                                                                   2007
Comments       New mobile operators entered the market increasing competition and driving the
(incl. %       cost of call down. Access has considerably improved. A temporary Regulatory

achievement)    authority was established in May 2007, but at this stage it still needs major
                improvement (there is no capacity).

                Establishment of a new legal and regulatory framework for public private
Indicator 7 :   partnership in infrastructure (port, water and electricity) to improve access and
(new indicator) reduce the cost of infrastructure services
Value
quantitative or                                                                  Not fully achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                The legal framework was prepared, but it is not yet adopted. An action plan to
                develop and improve the productivity of the Port of Cotonou was prepared (its
                implementation is being supported by the Millennium Challenge Account). The
Comments        port of Cotonou is still publicly managed. There is no public private partnership
(incl. %        in the water and electricity sectors. The Government decided to privatize the
achievement)    telecom company using its own resources and capacity, which was limited (this
                was not initially planned in the project). It is only after 2005, with the new
                regime, that the Bank was requested to provide support. The company is
                currently under restructuring. It is not yet privatized.
Indicator 8 :   The capacity of the Privatization unit (Cellule des Operations de
(new indicator) Dénationalisation) is strengthened
Value
quantitative or                                                                  Not achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved

Comments        Despite project funds availability, COD has benefited from limited training and

(incl. %        institutional strengthening due to low request in accessing the available funds.

achievement)    Nine staff members were trained but most of them left the unit. COD still does
                not have the capacity to conduct complex privatization transactions
Indicator 9 :   At least 80% of ADEX members are satisfied and pay dues.
Value
quantitative or                                                                           NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        Beneficiary survey is not available. The need to carry out the survey was

achievement)    overlooked.

Indicator 10 :  On average, at least 70% of beneficiaries of the Matching Grant Fund have met
                their expected quantitative objectives
Value
quantitative or                                                                   Not fully achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved

Comments        Beneficiary survey is not available. But a questionnaire was given to all of the

(incl. %        beneficiaries asking them whether or not their business affairs improved

achievement)    noticeably after receiving the subsidies of the fund over the period 2002-2005.
                The percentage that answered affirmatively was 82.41%.

Indicator 11 :  All services of the Trade information Center are provided on a cost recovery
                basis and the trade center is financially self-sufficient

Value
quantitative or                                                                Not fully achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments       The Information Center was opened at ADEX. But, it lacks material and
(incl. %       documentation because of delays encountered in delivering critical studies. The
Achievement) number of visitors is limited. The center is not self-sufficient.
               PAPME covers fully all its costs; portfolio at risk remains under 8% while

Indicator 12 : collection rate is over 95%. Co-financing by commercial banks increases by
               35/40% of credits. PAPME is transformed into a fully-fledged financial
               institution privately owned.
Value
quantitative or                                                                Not achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments       PAPME does not yet cover all its cost. Portfolio at risk is 22%. The collection
(incl. %       rate is 42% (Source: Audit report for year 2006). The institutional transformation
achievement)   is not completed
               PADME covers fully all its costs; portfolio at risk remains under 7% while
Indicator 13 : collection rate is over 95%. PADME is transformed into a fully-fledged financial
               institution privately owned.
Value
quantitative or                                                                Not achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %       PADME does not yet cover all its cost. Portfolio at risk is 6%. The collection rate

achievement)   is 96%. The institutional transformation is not completed

Indicator 14 : The database of Microfinance Institutions is completed and 100% of MFIs that
               do not meet the prudential ratios are supervised annually
Value
quantitative or                                                                Not fully achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved
               The process to set up the database started with considerable delay in July 2007.
Comments       The consultants provided technical advice to design the database. But it is not yet
(incl. %       fully operational and accessible. Not all of the MFIs that do not meet the
achievement)   prudential ratios are supervised due to lack of financial and human resources at
               the Department of Microfinance of the Ministry of Microfinance.
Indicator 15 : Common performance and accounting standards for MFIs adopted
Value
quantitative or                                                                Achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved

Comments       Several trainings on best practices in management and accounting were provided

(incl. %       by Consortium Alafia to build the capacity of MFIs. The Department of

achievement)   Microfinance is not supervising all the MFIs. It is therefore difficult to know at
               this stage if all the MFIs have adopted these accounting standards.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived               DO                      IP             Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)
 1     06/21/2000           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  0.00
 2     12/28/2000           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  4.40
 3     06/27/2001           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  6.70
 4     12/19/2001           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                11.66
 5     05/06/2002           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                12.28
 6     12/13/2002           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                13.38
 7     06/17/2003           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                14.97
 8     11/26/2003           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                16.44
 9     05/27/2004           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                17.69
 10    12/14/2004           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                19.91
 11    06/23/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         21.87
 12    12/28/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         23.29
 13    06/28/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         25.01
 14    12/22/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         26.16
 15    06/25/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         26.70

 16    12/27/2007           Moderately            Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                27.93



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Following a decade of economic decline, the Government of Benin launched a structural
adjustment program in 1989 aimed at restoring the conditions for sustained growth. The
CFA franc devaluation in 1994 provided a strong impetus to the Government's reform
program. The economy responded well. Spurred by a strong private sector supply
response, growth accelerated significantly since 1995 to reach an average of 5.6 percent
in 1996-97. But, the economy remains poorly diversified and highly vulnerable to
external factors. Private sector investment rate remained at a low 12 percent of GDP.

A more pro-active stance was required to maximize Benin's growth potential and fully
exploit opportunities created by political stability, the devaluation of the CFA franc,
macro-economic reforms, a vibrant commerce sector, and a large pool of Small and
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and micro-enterprises.

The Government's strategy was defined during the 1994 Private Sector Development
Round Table and the National Economic Conference held in December 1996. It aims at
tackling the key obstacles for Private Sector Development (PSD) by: (a) improving the
legal and regulatory environment; (b) strengthening private sector representation (i.e.
Chamber of Commerce, professional organizations); (c) upgrading the provision of
support services to entrepreneurs; and (d) improving the economic and institutional
infrastructure for domestic and export activities.

The World Bank was well placed to provide support to the implementation of the strategy
which was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Most of the policy reform
measures over the previous year in Benin were carried out under the Bank-supported
structural adjustment program and the project addressed one of the key objectives of the
Government program. Major reform areas included trade liberalization, privatization, and
the restructuring of the banking sector.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original objective of the project was to improve Benin's business environment, local
enterprises' competitiveness, and access of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and
micro-enterprises to credit. This would in turn help the country diversify its economy and
reach its goal of achieving a GDP growth of at least 5 percent per annum over the coming
years.

The project will address lingering constraints in the regulatory and institutional
framework for private sector development, through an improved dialogue between
business representatives and Government and accelerated privatization of some key
enterprises. It will seek to enhance the competitiveness of enterprises and help them
become more efficient and export-oriented through support to export associations and


                                             1

firms. Finally, it will help strengthen two promising financial institutions, the credit
institution for micro-enterprises (PADME) and the credit institution for small and
medium enterprises (PAPME).

Performance indicators include increase in private sector investment, reflecting an
improved business environment, growth of employment in the private sector, growth of
non-traditional exports, and financial and institutional sustainability of the two credit
institutions.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The overall PDO of improving Benin's business environment, local enterprises'
competitiveness, and access of SMEs and micro-enterprises to credit did not change.
However, a new outcome indicator was added in March 2004 following the Mid-term
review (MTR): "strengthening Public Private Partnership (PPP)" particularly in the
infrastructure sector to improve quality and reduce the cost of services.

In addition to the two original output indicators (telecom sector is liberalized and the
textile sector is privatized), four output indicators were added: (i) strengthening the
capacity of the Privatization unit (Cellule des Operations de Dénationalisation); (ii)
establishment of a new legal and regulatory framework for public private partnership in
infrastructure; (iii) water and electricity sectors are more competitive; and (iv) the Port of
Cotonou is more competitive. Funds were reallocated to support the new activities. The
changes were proposed by the Government in a detailed action plan discussed with the
Bank team during the MTR. An official request to support the new activities of the action
plan and reallocate the funds was made to the International Development Association
(IDA) in May 2004. The request was approved and reflected in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) in June 2004.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

By promoting a better business environment, the project was expected to contribute to
sustained economic growth and employment creation. By focusing on competitiveness
and exports, the project was designed to strengthen the country's SME sector and
diversify its exports. By supporting the development of specialized financial institutions
for SMEs and micro-enterprises, the project was aimed at helping local entrepreneurs
expand their business.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Business environment (total cost: US$3.4 million)

This component aimed to remove policy constraints to private sector development and
exports through concrete actions agreed in the context of an improved dialogue between
the Government and the private sector. This component will also support the privatization



                                                2

program. The program will include the privatization of two textile companies (Sitex,
Sobetex) and the adoption of a new sectoral policy for the textile sector. It will also
include the design and implementation of a revised sectoral policy in the
telecommunication sector to increase sound competition and efficiency. Some of the
remaining public enterprises will also be privatized.

Component 2: Competitiveness of enterprises (total cost: US$8.0 million)

This component was designed to help local firms enhance their competitiveness and
develop external markets for their products. It will assist ADEX, the recently established
association for export development in providing services to its members. The component
also includes a matching grant fund and support for trade information services. It will
help in the review of the feasibility of an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in light of
progress made in privatizing utilities and in improving port and customs operations
performance.

Component 3: Access to credit (total cost: US$15.7 million)

This is the largest component, which was prepared to build on recent efforts to develop
PAPME and PADME into sustainable financial institutions specifically geared to meet
the needs of SMEs and micro-enterprises. PAPME and PADME were established in 1993
as projects to provide credit to SMEs and micro-enterprises. Their performance to date
has exceeded expectations, with collection rates above 92 percent. These two institutions,
which will manage a line of credit provided by the project, are expected to be fully
sustainable by the end of the project. The component will also strengthen micro-finance
supervision in the Ministry of Finance and support the development of Consortium Alafia
a micro-finance NGO providing training services to its members.


1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Implementation of the project was delayed during the first year of project implementation
because of problems identified in the DCA, as well as in the Project Agreements with
PAPME, PADME and the ADEX Project Agreement. The problems were addressed
when the DCA was amended in July 2001 to: (i) specify the responsibilities of each
executing agency over the project components and clarify the disbursement categories
that are handled through the different Special Accounts; (ii) reallocate a larger proportion
of the proceeds of the credit to be used for technical assistance on the privatization
program; (iii) revise the procurement procedure for the matching grant funds to reflect
best practice; and (iv) adjust the "Performance Indicators" target deadline to take into
account the delay in starting implementation. The DCA was amended a second time in
April 2003 to open and maintain one additional Special Account with adequate resources
for the operations of ADEX to avoid delay in implementation of its activities.


                                             3

Following the midterm review of March 2004, the project closing date was extended in
June 2004 from December 2004 to December 2005 (the Credit became effective in August
2000).   This extension was requested to complete ongoing activities; complete and
implement recommendations of major studies (Investment climate assessment, Sources of
Growth study, Competitiveness Study, Diagnostic Trade Integrated Study, and a study on
Access to Land). With the extension, the DCA was also amended to allocate the project
unallocated funds to the privatization and public private partnership in infrastructures
program to support Government efforts in improving service in four key infrastructure
sectors (water, energy, port management and telecom).

In December 2005, the DCA was again amended. It also extended the closing date a
second time from December 2005 to December 2007. The extension and amendment of
the DCA was approved by IDA following a Quality Enhancement Review (QER)
meeting held on November 8, 2005 to assess the rationale behind a second extension. The
QER recommended: (i) to recast the project and focus on the high performing
components and subcomponents of the project such as microfinance; (ii) to reallocate
US$1.4 million, the savings from the initial costs of the key economic studies, technical
assistance, and equipment to the microfinance component and to the operating costs
category; and (iii) to establish the link to the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) 3
which had a focus on export promotion. The recommendations were endorsed by the
Government and taken into account in the project. The implementation arrangements and
the project development objectives remained unchanged.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The proposed project drew on World Bank-wide best practices developed especially in
micro-finance, export development, and matching grant design and management. For
example, the "Access to credit" component built upon two Bank-supported SMEs
(PAPME) and micro-enterprise (PADME) finance schemes in Benin which were
considered as successful. With PAPME, a new financial mechanism was set up to
provide loans jointly with commercial banks. With PADME, lending to micro-
entrepreneurs sharply increased. With high repayment rates (above 90 percent), the two
institutions were able to recover most of their operational costs. But as young institutions,
their capacities were still weak. More assistance was needed to help them enter the
institutionalization phase and reach sustainability.

For the "competitiveness of enterprises" component, the main lesson learned during the
1980s and 1990s was that, policy adjustment alone aiming at setting-up the right macro
framework had proven insufficient to generate a strong private sector supply response. A
more proactive approach was considered necessary during project preparation. The policy
dialogue on export competitiveness and the proposed design of the matching grant
scheme took into account lessons learnt from IDA and World Bank-supported projects in
other African countries such as Senegal and Madagascar. In these countries, among


                                               4

others measures, specialized and well-tailored services to firms and associations were
provided. Through the use of the matching fund scheme the capacity of local consultants
was strengthened to improve the availability of business support services over time. An
independent, private sector-based agency was hired to manage the scheme to ensure
operational independence and transparency.

The project was prepared with a large participation of stakeholders from various origins.
The Government sponsored a series of joint public/private sector initiatives (Private
Sector Round Table in 1994, SME workshop in October 1995) which fed into the design
of the project. The project was designed in such a way to enable full participation of key
stakeholders, from inception to implementation. To illustrate, for policy dialogue and
export development strategies, the Government and the private sector, through ADEX
(association of private exporters), were to set the objectives and performance indicators
on an annual basis.

The risks were clearly identified during preparation. The main risks were: slow
implementation of business environment reforms due to poor policy dialogue; difficulty
to implement the privatization plan due to vested interests and absence of interest of the
private sector; lack of transparence in the management of the matching funds; poor
overall competitiveness of the economy; Government interference in management of
credit of PADME and PAPME; PADME's and/or PAPME's lack of financial
sustainability at the institutionalization stage. Adequate mitigations measures were
proposed for all these risks.




2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured. But, during the mid-term review (MTR) conducted in
March 2004 (more than two years after the original MTR date), the Government and IDA
agreed to increase the focus of the project on privatization and the promotion of public
private partnership in infrastructure. This was in response to the difficulty in privatizing
which was a reality not only in Benin but across Africa. PPP was seen as a more
appropriate tool to promote private sector investment in the infrastructure sector.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

During preparation, it was agreed that each implementing agency will prepare quarterly
progress reports, on the basis of the project implementation plan and the key performance
indicators. The Technical Coordination Unit (CAT) was to prepare an overall progress
report prior to IDA supervision missions and for the project mid-term review. As regards
the competitiveness and export promotion component, it was agreed during negotiations
that a set of indicators would be reviewed annually by the representatives of all major
stakeholders through project implementation workshops. The mid-term review was
scheduled for December 2001 to assess the overall progress in implementation and
provide recommendations for modifications if needed.



                                              5

Overall, the M&E system did not perform well. The implementing units did not
systematically collect the data as planned, because the M&E mechanisms had not been
put in place. In June 2003, the World Bank provided training in M&E to focal points and
helped to prepare a set of indicators which were completed during the MTR of March
2004. The result table was revised following the MTR with new indicators related to PPP.
To strengthen the capacity in M&E and coordinate the collection of data, the MTR
recommended the recruitment of an M&E specialist within the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), who was hired in 2004. But the data collected were not sufficient enough to allow
a timely evaluation of progress made towads project development objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project environmental category was "B" as a the result of the expected privatization
transactions. The environmental impact assessments were conducted for the textile
companies to be privatized as planned during project preparation. The audit reports were
submitted in a timely manner and the recommendations taken into account by the PCU
Unit. Financial management reports were also generally submitted on time without major
weaknesses.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Bank Competitiveness and Integrated Growth Opportunities Project (CIGOP)
approved in April 2008 will continue to provide support to the following activities: (i)
investment and export development which will rationalize and expand activities support
by ADEX and other investment and export promotion structures; (ii) privatization of the
telecom incumbent operator; (iii) public private dialogue through support to the
Presidential Investor Council; and (iv) investment climate reforms to improve the
competitiveness of the economy.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

During the beginning of the 1990s, the Beninese economy was characterized by slow
growth, poor competitiveness and weak role of the private sector. The private investment
rate was below 12 percent of GDP. The CFA franc devaluation in 1994 improved the
competitiveness of the economy, but needed to be accompanied by proactive measures
and reforms aimed at stimulating the supply side of the economy, liberalizing and
diversifying the economy to reduce its vulnerability to external shocks. The World Bank
supported the devaluation and indicated in its May 1994 CAS that it would assist the
Government achieve its medium-term target of 5 to 6 percent GDP growth by supporting
increased private sector investment, expanding the scope of the divestiture program to
infrastructure and public utilities, and creating a favorable environment for private sector
activities.

The objectives of the project were and remained relevant in the current context. It was
designed to support the Government's strategy which was defined during the 1994 Private


                                               6

Sector Development Round Table and the National Economic Conference held in
December 1996. It aimed at: (a) improving the legal and regulatory environment; (b)
strengthening private sector representation (i.e. Chamber of Commerce, professional
organizations); (c) upgrading the provision of support services to entrepreneurs; and (d)
improving the economic and institutional infrastructure for domestic and export
activities.

The role of the private sector is still relatively modest. Private investment as a percentage
of GDP remained relative low at 13.7 percent in 20071, compared to 18 percent for low
income countries.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


Project    development objective is rated as unsatisfactory. Although the project
contributed to improving the business environment, the competitiveness of enterprise and
access to credit, the achievements are well below targets. This is based on the analysis of
the performance of the four related outcome indicators: private investment rate, export,
access to credit and cost of infrastructure services.

Private investment rate increased from 11 percent in 1998 to 13.7 percent in 2007,
below the target of 15 percent. Export performance of targeted products has generally
improved, but far below expectations: (i) exports of pineapple in volume increased by 12
percent on average between 2001 and 2006; (ii) exports in shrimps fluctuated sharply but,
on average, decreased by 30 percent between 2001 and 20062; and (iii) exports in cashew
nuts increased by 2 percent on average.

The telecommunications sector has been liberalized. This resulted in greater access and
the reduction in the cost of telecommunication services. The cost of call (fixed line)
decreased by 35 percent since the beginning of the project. On average, the cost of call
from mobile to mobile also sharply decreased by about 80 percent. Mobile phone
teledensity increased from 1 percent in 2000 to 24 percent in 2007.

The two lines of credit managed by PADME and PAPME contributed to increasing
access to credit to microenterprises and SMEs as reflected by the increase in their
number of clients. Indeed, in terms of outreach, the portfolio of PADME and PAPME
increased by 13 and 44 percent respectively on average. For PADME, this is below the
targets of 20 percent per annum planned in the project document. The quality of their
portfolios started to deteriorate in 2005 due both to exogenous and internal factors. The
exogenous factors are: (i) the economic slowdown in the country; (ii) Nigeria's


1Source: IMF

2This excludes the year 2004 when there were no exports of shrimps following the decision of the country
to interrupt exports due to concerns on quality.




                                                  7

interruption of cross border trade with Benin which affected most of PADME and
PAPME clients which were engaged into trading activities3; (iii) the political crisis in
neighboring Togo and Cote d'Ivoire (two trading partners); and (iv) the introduction of a
new Government's micro-credit programme which offered a low interest rate4 (4 percent).
These problems exacerbated internal problems which included: (i) weak internal control
procedures and monitoring which led to non performing loans; and (ii) lack of adequate
training to employees; and (iii) lack of credit reporting system to track the credit
worthiness of borrowers. The financial situation of PADME improved from significant
losses in 2006 to profit in 2007. As discussed in section 3.4 below, it should be noted that
Government interference in the management of PADME delayed its transformation into a
full-fledged and sustainable licensed deposit taking financial institutions, which was an
important objective of the project. PAPME remained in financial difficulties and
continues to record losses.

The relatively weak performance of private investment and export can be partly
explained by the slow liberalization of the economy with the incomplete implementation
of the privatization program and limited progress in promoting public private partnership
in infrastructure. The matching grant fund (ADEX) and the two microfinance institutions
(PADME and PAPME) did not play as important a role as was hoped at appraisal in
promoting investment, which was an unrealistic target, as discussed below. The
institutions did contribute to strengthening the capacity of supported enterprises and
provide financing mainly for internal trading activities, but it did not seem to have a
sizeable impact on the overall investment rate. This is partly explained by the fact that
they do not have the right clientele for substantial investment financing (most of their
clients are engaged into trading activities). Although not systematically, public/Private
policy dialogue improved under ADEX on specific trade related issues. But, more
generally public/private dialogue did not improve as there was no formal mechanism
during most of the project implementation timeframe. But as the project was nearing
completion, a Presidential Investor Council was created by decree in June 2006 and
helped improve the dialogue, which remains weak.

In hindsight, the objectives of the project were ambitious and broad, and the performance
indicators to measure the PDO were not realistic, as it is difficult to directly link project
activities to the increase in private investment in the short term (from 12 percent to 15
percent) or to the increase of non traditional exports (all exports less cotton and re-
exports) of 15 percent per year. This is especially true because the focus was on
supporting young microfinance institutions and a young export agency. However, the
project was implemented prior to the introduction of new guidelines on project
monitoring and evaluation in 2004.




3More than 80 percent of PAPME and PADME's clients are in the commercial sector

4As a result, PAPME and PADME existing clients interrupted their debt payment as they considered that
they were being overcharged.




                                                8

    3.3 Efficiency
    NA

    3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

    Rating: Unsatisfactory.

    Investment and exports did not increase as planned. As discussed above in the previous
    paragraph, the objective to increase the investment rate from 12 percent to 15 percent
    may have been unrealistic targets and not directly dependent of the project outputs. The
    project's activities and the design were relevant. But the impact of the "competitiveness
    of enterprises" and "access to finance" components could have been higher if the
    activities were better targeted to a limited number of enterprises and sectors. The
    implementation of these components seem to have focused more on disbursing rather
    than ensuring support to high impact activities and sectors.

    Support to enterprises and supply chains through the activities of the ADEX were
    appreciated by apex organizations and resolved many problems. This helped some
    enterprises strengthen their capacity but did not significantly help expand and diversify
    exports. Overall, ADEX has performed well, but the association does not yet possess the
    capacity to effectively support product development and compliance with quality
    standards by enterprises.

    Until 2005, the objectives set for the microfinance component of the Project in terms of
    number of clients; collection rate and portfolio at risk were largely reached for both
    PADME and PAPME. The situation then dramatically changed, especially for PAPME.

    Between 2004 and 2007, the collection rates for PAPME dropped from 92 percent to 42
    percent. The portfolio at risk increased from 4 percent to 22 percent. PAPME portfolio
    (number of clients) grew too fast by 44 percent on average. From gains during the
    previous year, PAPME recorded considerable losses in 2006 and 2007, which
    considerably affected its sustainability. In addition to the internal and external factors
    mentioned earlier, PAPME performance was affected by the lack of sufficient and sound
    investment opportunities in the SME sector. The institution then decided to also provide
    loans to microenterprises. Also, in an attempt to diversify its sources of revenues,
    PAPME invested in an investment bank (2005) and an insurance company (2006). The
    return of these recent investments will need to be assessed in the near future.

                          Table 1: PAPME - Selected performance indicators
    PAPME           2000       2001      2002       2003      2004     2005       2006       2007     Target
Number of active
clients             1416       2982      7602      11200     12363     12819     10423      10020
Portfolio at risk
(90 days)           3,87%     1,98%     2,39%      2,16%     3,63%     6,22%    13,92%      22,26%    8%

Collection rate     93%        94%       93%        95%     91,81%    77,97%    80,19%      42,32%    >95%
Gains and Losses
(approx. in US$)   476,399   1,504,890 3,029,389  2,545,305 2,085,549 164,057  -6,289,175 - 5,459,659

    Sources: Audit reports. PAPME statistics for 2007




                                                        9

   Overall, PADME performance has been satisfactory. The portfolio at risk and the
   collection rate remain sound. The growth in outreach has improved. Indeed, its portfolio
   of clients increased on average by 13 percent. PADME loans also seem to have an impact
   on the performance of the beneficiaries according to a recent survey5. The results of the
   survey indicate that value added by beneficiaries increased by about 80 percent more than
   for non beneficiaries. PADME's sustainability has however been weakened with the
   deterioration of its portfolio since 2006 when the institution recorded a deficit of CFA
   franc 1.5 billion (about US$3 million). However, following the adoption of corrective
   measures, the financial situation improved in 2007 when the institution became profitable
   again. It would be difficult to ensure PADME's long term sustainability without external
   financial support and/or without completion of its transformation from a credit-only
   association to a licensed deposit taking financial institution.


                          Table 2: PADME - Selected performance indicators
     PADME           2000     2001      2002        2003      2004      2005       2006      2007     Target
Number of active
clients             14,330    20,955   25,836      32,600    37,661    36,758    32,686     29,732
Portfolio at risk
(90 days)           0.20%     0.24%     0.39%      0.59%     0.99%    10.82%     10.19%     6.36%     7%

Collection rate     99.70%   99.70%    99.60%      99.33%   99,05%    94.73%     94,77%     95.91%    >95%
Gains and Losses
(approx. in US$)                      2,562,970   2,949,558 4,246,559 1,210,839 -3,001,344  350,000

   Sources: Audits reports. PADME statistics for 2007



   PAPME and PADME have not completed the process of their institutional transformation
   by opening their capital to private investors and strategic technical partners needed to
   strengthen their operations and ensure their long term sustainability. The Government
   decided to replace the management of both PAPME in October 2007 and PADME in
   May 2008. Government interference in the management of the institutions delayed their
   transformation. PADME was very close to concluding its partnership agreements with
   new shareholders including IFC, when Government interference stopped the process.
   Potential new shareholders lost interest. This put in doubt the institution's future
   sustainability. Also, in 2007, the government introduced a microfinance fund program
   (micro crédits aux plus pauvres, MCPP) with a 4 percent interest rate, which contribute
   to distorting the microfinance market and, hence, affected PADME and PAPME
   performance.

   Public private partnerships in infrastructure services did not improve. Benin telecom
   company, currently under restructuring, is still not privatized. But private operators are
   now providing services which have contributed to reducing the cost of call and improving
   services. The port of Cotonou is also publicly managed. Discussions are ongoing since



   5 "Impact des actions du PADME et du PAPME sur les bénéficiaires et sur l'économie nationale", June
   2008.




                                                      10

2005 to define an appropriate PPP for its management. Support is being provided by the
MCA to improve its competitiveness. The water and electricity company, Société
Béninoise de l'Eau et de l'Electricité (SBEE) was split into two separate entities. There is
still no public private partnership in the water and electricity sectors.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project activities, particularly the microfinance component, which benefited persons
with limited access to credit, may have had an impact on poverty. The number of clients
of PADME and PAPME increased by 13 percent and 44 percent, respectively, between
2000 and 2007. A comprehensive impact assessment should be conducted to assess the
real impact of the lines of credit on poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The sustainability of PAPME and PADME has been weakened with the deterioration of
their portfolio since 2005 due to a combination of external and internal factors as
presented in section 3.2. Experience in the development of institutions financing small
clients demonstrates that it takes a very long time for these institutions to reach maturity
and that support to them needs to be sustained. It would therefore be difficult to ensure
sustainability without external financial support and/or without completion of their
transformation from a credit-only association to a licensed deposit taking financial
institution. The institutional transformation was supposed to open PAPME and
PADME's capital to private new investors, strengthen its capacity, independence, and
sustainability.

ADEX has acquired recognition but no sustainable capacity has yet been put in place to
enable the association to continue to deliver its services on a sustainable basis. This is
not surprising considering that the institution was only established in February 1999. The
project supported about 90 percent of the Agency's operating costs. Contributions from
its members are still insufficient to cover these costs. The follow up PSD project will not
support the operating cost of ADEX, but it is expected to strengthen its capacity in order
to improve the quality of its services and integrate its activities into the overall trade
facilitation and market access infrastructure. ADEX is hence expected to sell its services
which will generate additional revenues.


The capacity of the "Cellule des Operations de Dénationalisation" (privatization unit)
created in November 1999 is still weak. The project strengthened the capacity and
provided training to the staff. But, most of the staff has now left the Cellule and the
capacity remains very weak. Except in the telecommunication sector for which the follow
up PSD project is expected to provide support, the Cellule does not currently have the
capacity to implement the privatization program or promote public private partnership in
infrastructure.




                                              11

The Consortium Alafia, the association of microfinance institutions (MFIs), has been
strengthened by the project which provided equipment, supported its operating cost, and
strengthened the capacity of its staff. It is now playing an important role to promote the
development of its members. The training in best practices provided to its members,
seminars and studies on microfinance issues, the establishment of the information
exchange center (centrale d'echange d'information) have contributed to strengthening
the sector. The Consortium is now considered has an efficient institution, but the
contribution of its members and the resources from selling its services are still
insufficient to cover its operating costs.

The project strengthened the capacity of the Microfinance Department within the
Ministry of Finance to improve regulation and supervision of microfinance institutions.
The project provided four staff (one statistician, one lawyer and two finance specialists),
but their contract recently ended. The follow up PSD project will not support the
Consortium Alafia and the Microfinance Department, the sustainability of all these new
key institutions supporting the MFIs sector is thus uncertain.

In sum, the project contributed to strengthening all the implementing units, which
contributed to achieving results. But, more support to these units will be needed in the
future to ensure sustainability.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

A number of important studies which were not originally planned were carried out by the
World Bank with assistance from the Government and triggered partly by work under the
project (Investment Climate Assessment, studies on Sources of Growth study,
Competitiveness Study, Diagnostic Trade Integrated Study, Access to Land). These
studies fed into a Private Sector Development Strategy, adopted by the Government in
September 2006, which guided the preparation of a new World Bank project,
Competitiveness & Integrated Growth Opportunities Project (CIGOP) in the amount of
US$25 million equivalent. The findings and recommendations of the studies also guided
the design of a project financed by Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) for more than
US$300 million. The MCA project is now improving access to land, the judicial sector
and the port operations which is expected to reduce the cost of doing business.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The follow-on CIGOP project will build on the outcomes achieved under the PSD project
particularly in capacity building for SMEs, export promotion, and public private
dialogue. Indeed, the project will provide specialized business development services and
strengthen key export and investment support agencies which could achieve greater
development impact than in the PSD project. Public private dialogue will continue to


                                              12

improve with the Presidential Investor Council continuing to be supported by CIGOP. It
will also support the privatization of the telecommunications company, which will
consolidate the positive outcomes achieved with the liberalization of the sector. The risk
to development outcome related to access to finance is high since CIGOP will not support
PADME and PAPME.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: moderately unsatisfactory.

A development partners' roundtable was organized in April 1992 to discuss the country's
new vision and strategic orientations (business environment, public/private dialogue, and
support to SMEs). A first World Bank mission visited the country in 1996 to discuss
progress in implementing the recommendations of the roundtable. The mission agreed to
provide support to the privatization program, the microfinance sector, and the textile and
cotton sectors, which were identified as important sectors during the roundtable. A
project preparation facility (PPF) was approved the same year, in 1996. During the first
two years of project preparation, the World Bank teams did not always have the required
skill mix to discuss all the issues under the proposed sectors to be supported. The Task
Leaders also changed two times during project preparation which contributed to delaying
project preparation. A strong and diverse team visited the country in 1998 and was able to
engage into comprehensive technical discussions on all the relevant aspects of project
preparation. The risks and the appropriate mitigation measures were clearly identified as
discussed in section 2.1. The project was finally approved in November 1999, four years
after preparation started.

The project scope focused on key issues but was broad, which was not unusual for
projects of this nature at the time. A strong team worked on the final stages of preparation.
However there were problems with the project legal documentation, and this had to be
modified early in the project to clarify the implementation arrangements. The indicators
of success were more developed than in most projects of the period, but were not closely
related to project activities. It is indeed difficult to directly link the project outputs to the
increase in private investment from 12 percent to 15 percent and an increase of non
traditional exports (all exports less cotton and re-exports) of 15 percent per year. The
monitoring system was not as developed as could have been expected, although again this
was also a common problem with projects that were approved in this period.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: unsatisfactory.




                                               13

Project supervision was affected during the first year of project implementation. One year
after project effectiveness, only the microfinance component (PADME and PAPME) had
really started. The design and operational problems identified in the Development Credit
Agreement and Project Agreements, seriously affected the implementation of the other
project components. The team revised the DCA in July 2001 to address the weaknesses in
the implementation arrangements, and implementation then improved. A Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) quality of supervision assessment (QSA) was conducted in July
2002 highlighting the main issues affecting project implementation and proposing
recommendations for improvement, including streamlining or restructuring the project
and reviewing the list of key performance indicators. The Midterm review, originally
planned for 2001, was conducted with delay in March 2004. The MTR was conducted by
a strong team which provided details recommendations aimed at improving and
rationalizing the project for greater impact. The supervision missions were conducted
regularly, but they were generally small and did not always have the right skill mix to
follow up on the recommendations of the MTR.

The IDA team provided sound technical advice on the privatization program, raised
issues in a timely manner, and actively followed up to accelerate implementation of the
program which was in reality affected by the lack of Government commitment and
capacity to privatize. The team was also flexible and pragmatic. Indeed, given the
noticeable difficulty to implement the privatization program through outright sales of
public companies, the team proposed to the Government during the MTR to use the
project funds to develop and implement public private partnerships in infrastructure
development mainly for telecommunications, port, energy and water.

The team also generally provided adequate implementation support to the microfinance
component which resulted in significant results, at least until 2005. For the "reduction of
policy and administrative obstacles to investments and exports" sub-component, the IDA
team engaged into policy dialogue based on all the studies which were triggered by the
dialogue carried out in connection with project and were prepared in parallel with its
implementation (ICA, DTIS, growth study, etc). But this dialogue mainly started in 2005
after the completion of these studies, which were delayed. The implementation of several
other activities (matching grant, cluster development, export promotion, trade
information center) where delayed during the first two years of project implementation
due to lack of staff with technical expertise required to closely monitor the activities,
review the requests for non objection and provide technical advice. The delay in
implementation resulted in two extensions of the project closing date.

Disbursement, financial management and procurement issues were adequately and timely
raised by the team. Recommendations for improvement were also promptly shared with
the Government.

In hindsight, it is not clear that the shift in focus to divestiture and PPP was a good idea,
considering results. It is possible that the shift redirected supervision effort from other
project activities, including support to the microfinance institutions. Serious
consideration might have also been given to a revision of outcome indicators to make



                                                14

these more linked to project activities, although it is true that the rigorous monitoring of
indicators is more common practice now than it was at the time of the mid-term review
for this project.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: moderately unsatisfactory

The project task leader changed five times from preparation to closing. This delayed
project preparation and affected project implementation during the early stage. The
weaknesses in project documentation (unclear definition of disbursement categories,
omissions and inconsistencies in the DCA and project agreements) which had been
addressed in the DCA amendment of July 2001, also delayed project implementation.

The project was complex and ambitious. It was expected to deal with several areas
including     privatization,   private  sector   development,     export    promotion   and
competitiveness and microfinance development.           There were several implementing
agencies. This complexity was not uncommon in Private Sector Development projects of
the period. However, as suggested by the Quality of Supervision Assessment conducted
in July 2002 by QAG, the project should have been streamlined or restructured to refocus
on key activities and redefine the development objectives and performance indicators.
This would have facilitated project supervision and implementation for better results.

The World Bank provided regular implementation support to the privatization program,
the microfinance component and remained engaged in overall policy dialogue. It was less
proactive in the other project components.


5.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance

Rating: unsatisfactory.

Overall, there was a weak Government commitment and capacity to: (i) develop and
implement a strategy to strengthen public private partnerships in infrastructure
development mainly for telecom, port, energy and water; (ii) privatize the
telecommunications       company;    and   (iii)  set  up    a   strong   and  independent
telecommunications regulatory authority. Despite project funds availability, the
Government did not strengthen the privatization institutional framework in order to
ensure a technically-powered and transparent process. This affected the implementation
of the privatization program and the reform of the cotton sector. The Government decided
to use its own resources to control the process and privatize the telecom company. To
date, the company is still not privatized. The cotton sector has also not been reformed as
expected. The two textile companies, SITEX and COTEB, have not been privatized. The


                                             15

poor performance of the privatization component of the project partly explains why
private investment increased well below expectations.

On the microfinance sector, the low 4 percent interest rate microfinance program
introduced by the Government in 2007, affected the competitiveness of PADME and
PAPME. The Government also delayed the transformation of PADME and PAPME into
full financial intermediaries. To date PADME and PAPME are under restructuring and
are thus facing difficulties attracting private investors.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: moderately satisfactory

PADME and PAPME performance is moderately satisfactory. The two institutions
contributed to improving access to finance for micro enterprises and SMEs in Benin by
providing loans through the lines of credit financed by the project. However, their
internal control procedures and systems have not been adequately strengthened. In
addition, the planned integrated management and information system (MIS) linking all
their offices throughout the country is still not installed due to lack of resources (the
project only provided resources for the MIS in the headquarters). This contributed to
accelerating the deterioration of their portfolio starting in 2006, following a series of
external factors which affected the country trade sector (problems in cross border trade
with Nigeria, crisis in Togo and Cote d'Ivoire).

ADEX performance is moderately satisfactory. It has been proactive and has
implemented most of the planned activities. Its capacity has been strengthened and it is
now playing a more active role in public private dialogue on issues related to trade. It has
built its reputation and is now considered as one of the strongest institutions providing
support to exporters. ADEX was very innovative and proactive in mitigating risks related
to collusion in the use of matching-grant schemes which is best practice. However, this
alone did not help trigger the appetite of the enterprises to have recourse to external
service providers without subsidies, which is the underlying paradigm of the scheme. It
should be noted however that this transformation could not have been expected to happen
in five years after years of a Marxist economic system. The Information Center was not
put in place as envisaged, because of delays encountered in delivering critical studies.
Overall, ADEX has performed well, but the association does not possess the capacity to
effectively support products and market development. Its performance has also been
affected by the lack of focus in the activities supported combined with the limited
resources to provide sustained support to its beneficiaries.

The performance of Consortium Alafia is satisfactory. It has effectively played its
advocacy role, provided training to build the capacity of the MFIs, disseminate best
practice and regulations, and contributed to professionalizing the MFIs.

The performance of the Cellule de Microfinance within the Ministry of Finance is also
satisfactory. The Cellule worked closely with Consortium Alafia and contributed to
disseminating the prudential regulations within the microfinance industry. It contributed


                                              16

to the preparation of the country's microfinance development policy adopted by the
Government in November 2007. It created a database of MFIs, which is however not yet
fully operational. After the creation of the Ministry of Microfinance in 2006, the cellule
was moved from the Ministry of Finance to the new ministry and became a full Direction,
Direction du Secteur de la Microfinance (DSSMF).

The performance of the Cellule des Opérations de Dénationalisation (Privatization Unit)
is unsatisfactory. The privatization program was not successfully implemented. The unit
did not have the independence and the capacity to implement it. Despite project funds
availability, COD has benefited from limited training and institutional strengthening
because it did not really request the available funds. This was the result of the lack of
Government commitment to implementation of the program. The Government decided to
conduct the privatization of the telecommunications company using its own resources
and COD which did not have the capacity to implement. The Unit still does not have the
capacity to carry out complex privatization transactions and promote public private
partnerships in infrastructure. It was only after 2005, when a new Government took office
that the Government decided to use World Bank resources and technical assistance. The
new government conducted an evaluation of the company which highlighted huge losses.
The project provided the support to implement a restructuring program which has
considerably improved its financial situation. The restructuring is expected to be
completed in July 2008, after which the company could be put up for privatization.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The lack of clear commitment to implement the privatization program hindered
improvements in the access and cost of infrastructure services. Interference in the
microfinance sector affected the performance of project institutions. Even with the
extension of the project closing date by three years, from December 2004 to December
2007, core activities such as the privatization of the telecommunications companies and
the textile companies, and the transformation of PADME and PAPME into private
entities were not completed. But progress was made with the strengthening of other
institutions such as ADEX, consortium Alafia, and DSSMF. Public private dialogue has
also improved with the Presidential Investor Council, which indicate the Government's
commitment to promote the role of the private sector.

6. Lessons Learned

1 - Sustained Government commitment is key to successful reform. The privatization
of the telecommunications company and the institutional transformation of PADME and
PAPME, two major project activities, have been delayed partly due to insufficient
Government commitment. The Privatization Unit was not independent and adequately
staffed. The commitment to privatize Benin Telecom in a transparent way and using the
World Bank resources materialized only in 2005 with the new Government.



                                             17

2 - Stable policy environment is critical to ensure sustainability of nascent and still
fragile institutions such as PADME and PAPME. The 4 percent interest rate
microfinance program introduced by the Government in 2007 distorted the microfinance
market. It competed with PADME and PAPME which were not yet financially
sustainable. This contributed to the weakening of their portfolio.

3 ­ Building and strengthening new institutions takes time. Experience has
demonstrated that institution-building takes time, and that the support should be sustained
to ensure their success.


Some broader lessons can be drawn from this experience, which are typical of the cohort
of projects closing during the past four fiscal years. These are consistent with the
conclusions of an independent consultant-led study conducted by the sector unit to
evaluate the performance of this cohort.

4 ­ Project design should take into account the implementation capacity of
Government. The design of the project was excessively complex in relation to the
implementation capacity of the Government. This complexity was a function not only of
the number of sub-components involved but also of the need to achieve fairly wide-
ranging policy reform. Reforms such as privatization called not only for Government
commitment but also for active consensus-building to ensure wider buy-in, the need for
which was underestimated at the outset, and not adequately recognized even mid-way
through implementation. Poor implementation effort for the project was at the same time
reflected in the need for as many as two extensions of the project's closing date ­ which
in themselves failed to improve performance.

5 ­ Adequate Monitoring and Evaluation system should be set up early in project
implementation. The key performance indicators that were defined appeared to be
excessive in number and in many cases called for data that was not readily available
without beneficiary surveys being conducted.

6 - Realistic indicators should be defined during project preparation Outcome targets
defined in the results matrix were overambitious and poorly defined. It was unrealistic to
expect that the project could by itself significantly impact on the overall private
investment rate, or ­ conversely ­ that changes in this rate could with any certainty be
attributed to the project.    Defining ambitious value targets for exports of primary
commodities made little sense against the background of price volatility and changing
terms of trade for exporting countries.

7 ­ Appropriate implementation support is critical to the success of projects.
Intensity of implementation support was inadequate for a project of this complexity. The
number of implementation support mission averaged only 1.7 during the duration of the
project, which was relatively low. Regular supervision missions with the right skills mix,




                                            18

and field presence would have helped accelerate implementation and sustain the dialogue
with the Government to timely address complex issues.




7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

NA

(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

NA




                                           19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT                     3.50               3.40           97.00
COMPETITIVENESS OF
ENTERPRISES                              8.40               8.00           95.00

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                 16.50              15.70            95.00
Project Coordination (CAT)               1.00               2.00           200.00
            Total Baseline Cost        29.40               28.10           96.00

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs       29.40               28.10           96.00
Front-end fee PPF                        0.90               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00
      Total Financing Required         30.40               28.10           92.00




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            0.00          0.00         0.00
International Development
Association (IDA)                                  30.40         28.10        92.00




                                           20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component



Component 1: Business environment (total cost: US$3.4 million)

This component aims to remove policy constraints to private sector development and
exports through concrete actions agreed in the context of an improved dialogue between
the Government and the private sector. This component also supported the privatization
program. The program included the privatization of two textile companies (Sitex,
Sobetex) and the adoption of a new sectoral policy for the textile sector. It also included
the design and implementation of a revised sectoral policy in the telecommunication
sector to increase sound competition and efficiency. Some of the remaining public
enterprises were also to be privatized. After the Midterm review, the project allocated
funds to support public private partnerships in infrastructure.

Removal of policy constraints

This component first aimed at removing policy constraints to private sector development
and exports through concrete actions agreed in the context of an improved dialogue
between the Government and the private sector. The dialogue leading to concrete policy
reforms did not improve significantly during the project lifetime. ADEX did contribute to
improving the dialogue with the Government on specific trade related issues, but its
capacity remains weak. More generally, public/private dialogue did not improve during
most of the project implementation timeframe as there was no formal mechanism during
most of the project implementation timeframe. The weak public private dialogue is also
explained by the delay in completing key analytical studies (Investment climate
assessment, Sources of Growth study, Competitiveness Study, Diagnostic Trade
Integrated Study, Access to Land), which were being prepared to guide the policy
dialogue. Public private dialogue improved late during project implementation with the
creation of the Presidential Investor Council (PIC) in June 2006. Two meetings were held
in February and December 2007. During the meetings of the Council, representatives
from both the public and private sectors agreed and submit to the President a set of
strategic orientations and policy reforms proposals. The capacity of the Secretariat of the
PIC is being strengthened to allow it to follow up effectively on the implementations of
the reforms proposals.

Support to the privatization program

This component was also designed to support the privatization program. The program
included the privatization of two textile companies (Sitex, Sobetex) and the adoption of a
new sectoral policy for the textile sector. The project document also indicated that some
of the remaining public enterprises would also be privatized. None of the companies were
privatized under the project. Sitex and Sobetex (the name of Sobetex was changed to
Coteb). The project supported two attempts to privatize these companies which failed due
to lack of investors' interest. The capacity of the Privatization Unit, Cellule des
Operations de Denationalisation, was not sufficiently strengthened to successfully



                                            21

conduct complex privatization transactions. It also lacked independence to effectively
conduct the processes.

Liberalization of the telecommunications sector

The component also originally included the design and implementation of a revised
sectoral policy in the telecommunication sector to increase sound competition and
efficiency. The telecommunications sector has been liberalized. This resulted in greater
access and the reduction in the cost of telecommunication services. New mobile operators
entered the market increasing competition and driving cost of call down. The cost of call
(fixed line) decreased by 35 percent since the beginning of the project. On average, the
cost of call from mobile to mobile also sharply decreased by about 80 percent (from Fcfa
250 to 80, 50, 45 and Fcfa 20 depending on the operator). Access has also considerably
improved. Mobile phone teledensity increased from 1 percent in 2000 to 24 percent in
2007 (source: Wireless Intelligence). The telecom company was not privatized (the
Government preferred to use its own resources and capacity, which was limited). It is
only after 2005, with the new regime, that the Bank was requested to provide support.
But the support requested was mainly to restructure the company which was making
important financial losses. The restructuring process is expecting to be completed in July
2008. The recently approved Competitiveness and Integrated Growth Opportunities
project (CIGOP) is expected to provide support to the privatization of the company.

The current legal and regulatory framework needs to be strengthened. It is mainly
governed by laws adopted in 2002 and 2003. A decree was published in May 2007 to
create and define the organization and functioning of a temporary regulatory Authority
(ATRPT). The Government is currently preparing a new legal, regulatory and
institutional framework based on the CEDEAO6 directives. It will take into account
international best practices and will de facto establish a new regulatory authority that will
be independent and autonomous.


Support to public private partnership in infrastructure

In addition to the support to the telecommunication sector, following the midterm review
(MTR) in March 2004, the project allocated funds mainly to: (i) strengthen the capacity
of the Privatization unit (Cellule des Operations de Dénationalisation); (ii) establish a
new legal and regulatory framework for public private partnership in infrastructure to
improve the competitiveness of the water and electricity sectors as well as the Port of
Cotonou. The support planned to build on and implement the privatization law, including
PPPs, and the related procedures prepared in 2003. The laws and related procedures are
still not yet adopted. The capacity of the Privatization Unit is still very weak to



6Communauté Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, Economic Community of
West African States (ECOWAS)



                                             22

implement privatization or PPP transactions. Overall, public private partnership in
infrastructure services did not improve. Benin telecom, current under restructuring, is still
not privatized. The port of Cotonou is also publicly managed but support is being
provided by the MCA to improve its competitiveness. The water and electricity
companies are also both publicly managed and there are no other private operators in the
sectors.

There was a weak Government's commitment and capacity to: (i) develop and implement
a strategy to strengthen public private partnerships in infrastructure development mainly
for telecom, port, energy and water; (ii) privatize the telecom company; and (iii) set up a
strong and independent telecom regulatory authority. Despite project funds availability,
the Government did not strengthen the privatization institutional framework in order to
ensure a technically-powered and transparent process.

Overall, improvement in the business environment did not lead to considerable increase
in the investment rate as presented in table 1 below. In 2005, the investment rate remains
below the project objective of 15 percent. Data for 2006 will be available only in 2008.

                        Table 1: Private investment (as a % of GDP)
                        2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005  2006   2007
Private investment
 (% of GDP)             11.30     11.40    11.56       12.00     12.12     12.23 13.6    13.7

       Source: World Bank WDI and GDF database, 2008. IMF for 2006 and 2007.



Component 2: Competitiveness of enterprises (total cost: US$8.0 million)

This component was designed to help local firms enhance their competitiveness and
develop external markets for their products. Three main activities were planned under the
project: (i) assistance to the export development association, ADEX, the recently
established association for export development in providing services to its members; (ii)
provision of matching grant fund and support for trade information services; and (iii)
review of the feasibility of an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in light of progress made in
privatizing utilities and in improving port and customs operations performance.


Assistance to ADEX

ADEX has been proactive and has implemented most of the planned activities. Its
capacity has been strengthened and it is now playing a more active role in public private
dialogue on issues related to trade. It has built its reputation and is now considered as one
of the strongest institutions providing support to exporters. However, the association does
not yet possess the capacity to effectively support products and market development. Its
performance has also been affected by the lack of focus in the activities supported
combined with the limited resources to provide sustained support to its beneficiaries.




                                              23

ADEX has put an emphasis on capacity building. It has supported training programs for
enterprises within several industries including fishing, textiles, pineapples, cashew nuts,
and mushrooms. This has brought about improvements in the competitiveness of
enterprises, increasing their ability to contribute to Benin's exports. The cashew nuts
industry provides one case in point. The Association provided training for production
practices which enhanced conformity for firms with the production technique
requirements of the market, it made products among firms more competitive and able to
gain more market share, all leading to the improvement of quality and quantity for
production. Furthermore, the issue of quality and sanitation of products is paramount in
Benin, and ADEX has played a strong hand in this realm. For example, ADEX put
together a training program for the management of phytosanitary products and pesticides
in the pineapple sector. This improved firms' ability to meet the required standards of
production techniques, including for the international market. Also, training programs
have improved the production and quality practices among the fishing industry to
facilitate exports. But, overall, support provided was not enough to boost export levels as
planned under the project. On average, shrimps exports decreased by 30 percent between
2001 and 2006. Cashew nuts and pineapple increased by 2 percent and 12 percent
respectively, well below the target 15 percent.


The association also undertook valuable studies. It has created a knowledge base by
producing several studies to inform strategy for expanding exports in the country and
improving firm performance. A feasibility study and a series of work related to quality
control for fish products contributed to removing the self ban on shrimp exports that the
Government decided in 2004 because of problems regarding safety and quality. Shrimps
exports to EU resumed in 2005. This work is now also leading to the establishment of
several quality control centers (Bases Obligatoires de Controle) expected to be financed
by the MCA, the Belgium cooperation, and the EU. The studies also included a study to
identify the fiscal obstacles to exporting.

ADEX has been quite innovative as well. ADEX is developing Trade Information
services center. However at the moment, the center is not working well. But it has
potential nonetheless. Also, statistics and databases have been compiled concerning
exports in order to inform good strategy to expand exports. Furthermore, an internet site
has been established to give enterprises access to export opportunities, to expose their
products, find demand for their products, to be informed real time about the market, but
like the CIC it needs much refinement.


Matching Grant Fund

The Matching Grant Funds (FAFP) contributed to improving firms' capacity, but its
overall impact was affected by the lack of focus of its support. The allocation of support
has been too broad. As a result, support provided to individual firms was not
comprehensive enough to lead to significant changes in their performance. The fund's
impact on the performance of the beneficiaries has been moderately satisfactory. A



                                             24

questionnaire was given to all of the beneficiaries asking them whether or not their
business affairs improved noticeably after receiving the subsidies of the fund over the
period 2002-2005. The percentage that answered affirmatively was 82.41 percent.

Most of the support provided by the Fund was for technical training and marketing.
Indeed, the evaluation of the FAFP undertaken by the government in 2006 revealed that
three categories of support remained at the top of the list: (i) technical training (18
percent), (ii) expositions, salons, and fairs (14 percent), and (iii) and awareness raising
(11 percent).

The sectors that truly benefited from this matching grant scheme were the service sector,
the handicraft sector, and also the industrial sector. The agriculture sector and
transformation sector have also benefited but by considerably less. The service sector
claimed 34 percent of the grants to beneficiaries in 2005 while the artisan sector and
industrial sector claimed 25 percent and 15 percent respectively.


Feasibility study for the Export Processing Zone

The feasibility study was not supported by the project as planned. The study was financed
by other development partners. The project did not provide support to the EPZ.


Component 3: Access to credit (total cost: US$15.7 million)

This component was prepared to build on recent efforts to develop PAPME and PADME
into sustainable financial institutions specifically geared to meet the needs of SMEs and
micro-enterprises. The project was designed to provide lines of credit to the two
institutions, which were expected to be fully sustainable by the end of the project. The
component was also aimed at strengthening micro-finance supervision in the Ministry of
Finance and supporting the development of Consortium Alafia, a micro-finance NGO
providing training services to its members.

Support to PADME and PAPME

Under the biggest project's component, the project financed two lines of credit managed
by PADME and PAPME. They contribute to providing credit to microenterprises and
SMEs as reflected by the increase in their number of clients. Indeed, the portfolio of
PADME and PAPME increased by 13 and 44 percent respectively. This is however
below the targets of 20 percent per annum planned in the project document. The portfolio
at risk is 6 percent and 22 percent respectively for PADME and PAPME. Collection rate
is 96 percent and 42 percent for PADME and PAPME respectively. Tables 1 and 2 below
present selected performance indicators for both institutions.

The quality of their portfolios started to deteriorate in 2005 due both to exogenous and
internal factors. The exogenous factors were: (i) the economic slowdown in the country,



                                             25

    (ii) Nigeria's interruption of cross border trade with Benin which affected most of
    PADME and PAPME clients which were engaged into trading activities7; (iii) the
    political crisis in neighboring Togo and Cote d'Ivoire (two trading partners); (iv) the
    introduction of a new government's micro-credit programme which offered a low interest
    rate (4 percent)8. These problems exacerbated internal problems which included: (i) weak
    internal control procedures and monitoring which led to an increased in non performing
    loans and; (ii) delay in setting up an integrated management and information system
    (MIS) linking all their offices throughout the country due to lack of resources (the project
    only provide resources for the MIS in the headquarters); (iii) lack of adequate training to
    employees; and (iv) lack of credit reporting system to track the credit worthiness of
    borrowers. The financial situation of PADME improved from significant losses in 2006
    to profit in 2007. PAPME remained in financial difficulties.

    PADME and PAPME have still not completed the process of their institutional
    transformation which was expected to attract private investors required to strengthen the
    institutions' capital and operations. It should be noted that Government interference in
    the management of PADME and PAPME delayed their transformation into full-fledge
    licensed deposit taking financial institutions. PADME was very close to concluding its
    partnership agreements with new shareholders including IFC, when Government
    interference stopped the process and put in doubt the institution's future sustainability.

                           Table 1: PADME - Selected performance indicators
      PADME           2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005        2006       2007     Target
Number of active
clients              14,330     20,955    25,836     32,600    37,661   36,758      32,686     29,732
Portfolio at risk
(90 days)            0.20%      0.24%     0.39%      0.59%     0.99%    10.82%      10.19%     6.36%      7%

Collection rate      99.70%    99.70%    99.60%     99.33%    99,05%    94.73%      94,77%     95.91%    >95%
Gains and Losses
(approx. in US$)                        2,562,970  2,949,558 4,246,559 1,210,839  -3,001,344
    Sources: Audits reports. PADME statistics for 2007

                           Table 2: PAPME - Selected performance indicators
    PAPME            2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005        2006        2007      Target
Number of active
clients              1416      2982      7602      11200     12363     12819       10423        10020
Portfolio at risk
(90 days)           3,87%     1,98%     2,39%      2,16%     3,63%     6,22%      13,92%       22,26%     8%

Collection rate      93%       94%       93%        95%      91,81%    77,97%     80,19%       42,32%     >95%
Gains and Losses
(approx. in US$)    476,399  1,504,890 3,029,389  2,545,305 2,085,549  164,057   -6,289,175  - 5,459,659
    Sources: Audit reports. PAPME statistics for 2007




    7 More than 80 percent of PAPME and PADME's clients are in the commercial sector

    8 As a result, PAPME and PADME existing clients interrupted their debt payment as they considered that
    they were being overcharged.




                                                        26

Support to Consortium Alafia

The component provided supported to Consortium Alafia which is now playing an
important role to promote the development of its microfinance institutions members. The
training in best practices provided to its members, seminars and studies on microfinance
issues, the establishment of the information exchange center (centrale d'echange
d'information) have contributed to strengthening the microfinance sector. The
Consortium is now considered has an efficient institution, but the contribution of its
members and the resources from selling its services are still insufficient to cover its
operating costs.


Microfinance Unit (Ministry of Finance)

The project strengthened the capacity of the Microfinance unit within the Ministry of
Finance to improve regulation and supervision of microfinance institutions. The unit
worked closely with Consortium Alafia and contributed to disseminating the prudential
regulations within the microfinance industry. It contributed to the preparation of the
country's microfinance development policy adopted by the Government in November
2007. It also created a database of MFIs, which is however not yet fully operational. The
process to set up the database started with considerable delay in July 2007. The
consultants provided technical advice to design the database. But it is not yet fully
operational and accessible. The Department is still not supervising 100 percent of the
MFIs that do not meet the prudential ratios due to lack of financial and human resources.

After the creation of the Ministry of Microfinance in 2006, the Unit was moved from the
ministry of finance to the new ministry and became a full fledge Department of
Microfinance Sector.




                                            27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic analysis was prepared for the project. However, there is no available
information to update this analysis.




                                         28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title               Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Eric Boucheny             Senior Private Sector Specialist  AFTP1 Private sector
                                                                  development
Eugene Nyambal            Senior Private Sector Specialist  AFTP1 Private sector
                                                                  development

Lucy Fye                  Consultant                        AFTP1 Private sector
                                                                  development

Laurence Rouget-Le Clech  Private sector specialist         AFTP1 Private sector
                                                                  development
Gabrielle Rooz            Team Assistant                    AFTP1 Team Assistant
Sheela Reddi              Program Assistant                 AFTP1 Program Assistant
Paul Noumba Um            Senior Telecom specialist         EMTTI Telecommunications
Elke Kreuzwieser          Resident Representative (Togo)    AFMTG Private sector development
Jean-Charles de Daruvar   Lawyer                            LEGAF Legal
Solange Alliali           Lawyer                            LEGAF Legal
Hovsep Melkonian          Disbursement Officer              LOAAF Disbursement
Agnes Albert-Loth,        Disbursement Officer              LOAAF Disbursement
Hassine Hedda             Disbursement Officer              LOAAF Disbursement
Asha Ayoung               Procurement specialist            AFMCI Procurement
Bertrand de Chazal        M&E Specialist                    AFTS2 Quality and knowledge
Lucas Janssens            M&E Specialist                    AFTS2 Quality and knowledge

Omar Fye                  Environmental Specialist          AFTEI Environmental


Supervision/ICR
Hugues Agossou           Sr Financial Management Spec.      AFTFM Financial Management
Nicolas Ahouissoussi     Senior Agriculture Economist       AFTAR Agriculture
Fatiha Amar              Program Assistant                  ECSPF Program Assistant
Itchi Gnon Ayindo        Procurement Spec.                  AFTPC Procurement
Ilhem Baghdadli          Economist                          AFTAR Agriculture
Yann Burtin              Senior Operations Officer          CITPO Telecommunications
Cecilia Claudia Corvalan Sr Transport. Econ.                LCSTR Transport
Amadou Dem               Economist                          AFTFP Economist
Nouma T. Dione           Consultant                         CICAF Business environment
Alexandre K. Dossou      Sr Transport. Spec.                AFTTR Transport
Shireen El-Wahab         Junior Professional Associate      AFTFP Implementation support
Xavier Forneris          Sr Invest. Policy Off.             CICIG Business environment
Elke U. Kreuzwieser      Consultant                         AFTPM Trade



                                          29

Said R. Mikhail          Consultant                         AFTEG Energy
Tonle Josephine Ngou
Mawamba                  Program Assistant                   AFTFP Program Assistant

Korotoumou Ouattara      Sr Financial Economist              AFTFP Microfinance
Isselmou Ould Louleid    Junior Professional Associate       AFTPS Implementation support
Vincent Palmade          Lead Economist                      AFTFP Business environment
Xiaolun Sun              Sr Invest. Policy Off.              PA9ES Business environment
Papa Demba Thiam         Sr Private Sector Development       AFTFP Trade
Herve Assah              Sr Private Sector Development       AFTFP Privatization
Boris Enrique Utria      Sector Leader                      AFTEG Energy



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                                  73.45
  FY96                                                                  61.45
  FY97                                                                  74.07
  FY98                                                                 102.47
  FY99                                                                 109.46
  FY00                                       53                        145.13
  FY01                                       10                         27.79
  FY02                                        7                         22.89
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                        Total:               70                        616.71
Supervision/ICR
  FY95                                                                   0.00
  FY96                                                                   0.00
  FY97                                                                   0.00
  FY98                                                                   0.00
  FY99                                                                   0.86
  FY00                                                                   7.93
  FY01                                       11                         25.86
  FY02                                       21                         61.45
  FY03                                       41                        113.42
  FY04                                       46                        161.90
  FY05                                       36                        115.39
  FY06                                       39                        153.76



                                          30

FY07               28    148.38
FY08               11     53.77
        Total:    233    842.72




                 31

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

NA




                                    32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                                  33

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   34

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                    35

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

- Project Appraisal Document and Development Credit Agreement
- Aide Memoires
- Implementation Status Reports
- PADME and PAPME Audit reports
- "Bilan des Activités avec Impact", ADEX, 2008
- Evaluation de l'impact des appuis du Fonds d'Appui à Frais Partagés (FAFP), 2006
- Benin ICT policy note
- "Point des Réalisations au 31 décembre 2007", Cellule d'Appui Technique, 2008
- "Impact des actions du PADME et du PAPME sur les bénéficiaires et sur l'économie
nationale" (PADME and PAPME Impact Evaluation report), Ministère de l'Industrie et
du Commerce, PADSP, June 2008.




                                          36

