Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3963-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
T THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.0 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Februaiy '5, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bh recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Nov. 1983 - Present
Auction Band            US$1.00 - J$4.00-5.45   J$1.00 - USS0.233-0.183
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
List of Acronyms
BOJ      -  Bank of Jamaica
EDF      -  Export Development Fund
JECIC    -  Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation, Limited
NIBJ      = National Investment Bank of Jamaica, Limited
PIOJ     =  Planning Institute of Jamaica
TAFEX    =  Technical Assistance Fund for Export
TAL I    =  Loan 2106-JM
TAL II   -  Proposed Second Technical Assistance Loan



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                    Jamaica
Beneficiary                  US$2.5 million would be onlent to the Jamaica Export
*                                      Credit Insurance Company to establish a Technical
Assistance Fund for Export (TAFEX)
Amount:                      US$9.0 million.
Terms:                       Payable in 17 years including 4 years of grace;
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:             US$2.5 million of loan proceeds would be onlent from
Government to JECIC at an interest rate 3/4% over the
Bank rate to establish TAFEX. These funds in turn
would be used to make US$ denominated subloans to
exporters for technical assistance at an interest rate
equivalent to 2% above the Government's onlending
rate for a term of 4-10 years, including up to 3 years
grace.
Project Description:         The project has been conceived to help the Government
implement, monitor and sustain its structural
adjustment effort as supported by the Bank under a
series of structural adjustment loans. The project
finances consultants, training and equipment to
support three major objectives: institutional
development and improved fiscal performance of key
public-sector entities; promotion of exports; and
human resources development. In particular, the
project would, inter alia, help improve the financia.
and managerial performance of the revenue services aaj
of the publicly-owned airline company and stcengthen
the Planning and Statistics Institutes, National
Investment Bank of Jamaica, and the Ministry of
Education. It would also finance a manpower planning
study to help identify ways of mobilizing, training
and employing human resources. In addition, the
project would fund a facility to provide financing for
technic'l assistance to exporters on favorable terms,
as well as a study to reorient the incentives system
to promote expansion of exports. The project would
also help the G6vernment improve its planning and
administration of externally-financed technical
assistance. A portion of the loan proceeds would be
utilized for other priority needs as they arise.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:          The proposed project would make a significant
contribution to the structural adjustment program,
helping to institutionalize and sustain policy
initiatives undertaken in the last three years. The
proposed project's main risks are the foliowing:
first, the degree of skill transfer achieved from
consultants to local professional counterparts may not
be wholly adequate to sustain institutional
development, and management problems experienced under
the first technical assistance loan would persist.
The project design has anticipated this possible
problem and has built in appropriate safeguards.
Second, the potential demand for the resources to be
provided under the relatively novel TAFEX is
uncertain. Resources available under the fund have
consequently been limited to US$2.5 million, and the
performance of TAFEX and demand for its resources
would be formally reviewed after 1 year of
implementation to determine the need, if any, for
additional funding.



- iii -
------US$ million-
Estimated Costs:                                    Foreign   Local   Total
I. Institutional Development of key
public entities                                3.14     .50      3.64
II.  Export Promotion                                3.42      .55     3.97
III.  Human Resource Development                      0.43      .07     0.50
IV.  Unidentiried Activities                         0.95      .15     1.10
V.  Contingencies                                   1.06    0.17      1.23
Total Project Costs                              9.0    1.44    10.44
Financing Plan:
Bank                                             9.0     -         9.0
Governmet.i                                      -      1.04      1.04
Exporters                                        -      0.40      0.40
Total                                            9.0    1.44    10.44
Estimated Disbursements:          ----------Bank Fiscal Years-------  -
(US$ million)
FY86       FY87        FY88        FY89
Annual                     4.0         2.7         1.4         0.9
Cumulative                 4.0         6.7         8.1         9.0
Map 18111



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
.
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$9.0 million to help finance a
second technical assistance project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, repayable on a fixed amortization schedule, including 4 years grace,
with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Recent Developments and Economic
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1984.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
A. The Jamaican Economy co 1980
3.        The economy of Jamaica was affected bv severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth perfor-
mance of tne 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks ind -he impact -f domestic policies.  ks a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth in per capita income.  '1anufacruring declined by 31%,
and construction by 58%.  The share of investment expenditures declined
from 22% o' GDP in 1974-75 to 12-13% of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption
expenditures increased proportionatelv, reflecting the private sector's
declining confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current
expenditures.
4.        As a result of Governmenr's expansionarx  Policies for the public
sectcr, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment eurrent account, dhich had registered a surp.us ot 6% of GDP in
1974'75, showed a ieficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing Droduction for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The zurrent account deficit on the balance of paynents reached a high of
L1' of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
LaLk if confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from
17% of GDP in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net interna-
tional reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to USS-518 million
in 1980, with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.



- 2 -
B. Development Strategy
5.        The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s.  It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.          6
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOH, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.        The new Government quickly re-established relations with the IMF
and in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility
Arrangement and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would have
together provided SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The EFF was
suspended in October 1983 and replaced by a Stand-By arrangement to cover
FY1984/85 (see para. 24 below). The Governtaent also requested a structural
adjustment loan from tne World Bank, and a first such loan, for US$76.2
million, was approved in March 1982. The SAL included conditions in
balance of payments management, industry, agriculture, and savings and
investment, both public and private. Two subsequent SALs have been
approved in June 1983 and November 1984, covering the same policy areas,
but with the addition of action programs in the fields of public
administration and energy (see paras. 15 and 16 below).
7.        (le of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s--
and, of course, for the incoming Government-had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign excnange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One aspect was to attract a high leuel of official ab_ist-
ance from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an increased voltme of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system controlled primarily by market
forces.
8.        An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an 'example" to
others.



-3-
9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to liberalize the issuance of import licenses to be funded through
purchases on the informal foreign exchange market (so-called "no-funds"
licenses), especially those for raw materials and capital goods. The
second step took plau' early in 1983. It consisted of the full
legalization of the parallel market, formalization of its operations
through institutionalization within the commercial banking system, and a
simplification of the import licensing arrangements. This process was
e           taken a stage further in November 1983.  The two-tier system was abandoned
in favor of a unified exchange rate system, with some built-in
flexibility. The initial rate was set at J$3.15 - US$1.00, which
represented a 77% devaluation of the official rate. The system experienced
some initial problems with respect to daily rate-fixing and rules for
adjusting the band from time to time. However, revised rules for these two
aspects were put in place on March 15, 1984, which introduced a broad-based
auction system for fixing rates. Finally, in December 1984 the band which
limited bids to certain rates was removed, but with another modification
under which bidders pay their actual bid price rather than the clearing
price. The current exchange rate is about J$4.9 = US$1.00. At the same
time, as part of the SAL program the import licensing system has been
dismantled, and the only imports subject to continued administrative
control are items on the restricted list, and certain low priority consumer
goods. These remaining controls will be phased out gradually, except for
certain strategic controls, such as those on arms, drugs, and goods
originating in South Africa.
10.       The manufactur'.ng sector--together with agriculture and
tourism--was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major pro-
blems: (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded,
inappropriate, and badly run-down capital equipment, because of a lack of
investment during che 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign exchange for
spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is attempting to
redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by gradually
eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative restrictions, by
the gradual changes in the exchange rate, and by the expansion and
LibDeralization of the Export Development Fund. which provides exporters
with foreign exchange to acquire needed imports. Private investment,
particularly from overseas, is being actively encouraged, through the
general improvement in the investment climate, and through an agressive
investment promotion agencv.
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s.  however, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined. Government was committed to a revival
af export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of privare sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,



-4-
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (EMOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the EMOs;
(iii) improved incentives for nontraditional agricultural exports (i.e.,
excluding sugar and bananas); and (iv) the encouragement of private
investment, which has to date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.
12.       Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image that had been created in the seventies and that had
seriously damaged the tourist trade. Several Government-owned and operated
hotels were leased to the private sector, under terms where initial rents
could be used for refurbishing. In addition, the devaluation has led to an
effective reduction in the price of tourism in Jamaica, increasing its
price competitiveness. The collective result of this effort has been a
rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year) at a time when tourism
in the Caribbean has been falling.
13.       Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/aluuina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered in 1981 and 1982 was not expected or provided for in
the Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. The production levy was
renegotiated in January 1984, and the new levy arrangement provides
stronger incentives to the companies to increase capacity utilization. In
recent months, the Government has been very active in attempting to
negotiate bauxite/alumina barter deals, in order to attempt to maintain the
level of output, or prevent it from falling even farther, and some success
has been achieved.
14.       Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
efforts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
of new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
attracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
15.       Nevertheless, the results from the first two SALs have only
partially fulfilled expectations. In particular, nontraditional exports
have nut increased in the way that was hoped for, and although the
financial performance of the public enterprises has improved considerably,
this has not been sufficient to induce an improved fiscal situation. To
judge the programs a failure on this point would, however, be premature,
for an explanation must first be found. It is considered that there are
three main reasons for the partial fulfillment of expectations up to the
present time, and these three factors are inter-related: (a) the
internaticenal recession, which hit Jamaica particularly hard because of its



-5-
impact on bauxite/alumina exports; (b) the failure of the Government to
comply with its stabilization program, particularly with regard to reducing
the fiscal deficit and permitting the exchange rate to adjust; and (c)
possible weaknesses in the design of the SAL program itself.
*         16.        Overall, however, it is considered that the program as designed
was broadly appropriate and would have achieved most of its expected
benefits if the stabilization program had been successful. Moreover, it
*         remains our judgement that the expected benefits of the first SALs plus SAL
III will still be enjoyed if the current stabilization program is
successful, particularly with respect to the growth of nontraditional
exports and private investment. However, it must be recognized that the
ongoing Stand-By program is an ambitious and difficult one, which will
require the firm resolve of the Government.
C. Recent Economic Performance
17.       Jamaica has experienced some recovery in output in the last three
years, primarily as a result of the improved availability of foreign
exchange and of the return of confidence. It is now estimated that GDP
grew by 3.2% in 1981, and 1.8% in 1983, but with no change in 1982. The
lack of growth in 1982 was in particular because of the impact of the
international recession on the bauxite/alumina industry, and growth outside
this sector registered 2.8% in 1982. Preliminary estimates show economic
growth of only 0.5% in 1984, as a result of the present austerity program.
18.       The main growth sectors have been those which are particularly
sensitive to the availability of foreign exchange and to confidence. Thus,
construction, tourism and financial services have grown rapidly, with a
steady recovery in the manufacturing sector and other services. The main
disappointing areas have been bauxite/alumina, as noted above, and, until
1984, the agricultural sector, where output remained constant to the end of
1983, but enjoyed growth of about 10% in 1984, primarily due to a 30%
increase in the production of nontraditional crops targeted by the Agro 21
program, particularly for exports. These changes in agricultural output
coincide with changes in the food import bill and the decline in 1982 can
be attributed to the greater availability of foreign exchange to finance
imported food and severe drought, as well as the delayed and harmful effect
of import-substitution policies adopted during the 1970s without due regard
to the cost-effectiveness of production for the domestic market.
19.       The present Government took over a very difficult situation in
the area of public finance, and so far has been able to achieve little
improvement. In FY80/81 the Central Government current deficit stood at
7.5Z of GDP, and the overall deficit at 17.0% of GDP. In FY83/84, it is
estimated that the current deficit was 9.7% of GDP, and the overall deficit
17.5% of GDP. Given the failure of previous IMF programs to improve public
finances, the present program between the Government and the IMF attempts
to reduce the Central Government's current deficit to under 1% of GDP, and
to bring the overall deficit down to 7.6% of GDP. The target for the



overall deficit for FY83/84 had been 10.3% of GDP. To date, the 1984/85
program is on target, through a combination of revenue measures and
expenditure cuts, including the reduction of the Government workforce by
some 6,000.
20.       Export performance since 1980 has been disappointing, both
because of the effects of the international recession, and also for
domestic reasons. The major casualty of the recession has been
bauxite/alumina exports. These held up well in 1981, but it is now clear
that much of that year's exports were stockpiled, and exports fell heavily
ir 1982 and again in 1983. Export volumes (in bauxite equivalent) fell
from 11.6 million tons in 1981 to 7.7 million tons in 1983, but with a
modest recovery to 8.8 million tons in 1984. Despite a small recovery in
alumina exports in 1983, sector earnings have also suffered badly, and fell
from US$760 million in 1981 to only US$424 million in 1983, not least
because prices weakened considerably, and in 1983 were some 28% below the
1981 nominal level. It is interesting to note that in 1981,
bauxite/alumina gross earnings were over 2.5 times those of tourism: in
1983 they were virtually equal. The consequences of this 45% drop in
bauxite sector earnings have been very severe for the balance of payments.
It may also be noted that the Bank and the IMF had projected in 1981 that
1983 bauxite/alumina earnings would be in the region of US$870 million.
Other traditional exports, sugar and bananas, have grown slightly since
1981, but the rehabilitation programs have yet to have their expected
i-pact.
21.       Nontraditional exports have fared somewhat better, but have yet
to play the significant role that is expected in the economic recovery
program. Much of the growth has been in CARICOM exports. However, some
growth in non-CARICOM exports has taken place, and 1983 would have shown a
more significant increase in these were it not for declines in citrus and
rum exports that year. Preliminary figures indicate an increase in these
exports in 1984 of over 20%. The slower growth in CARICOM exports in 1983
(and the large decline of almost 40% in 1984) reflects trade problems
within the region, particularly the suspension of the CARICOM Multilateral
Clearing Facility, and import restrictions imposed by Trinidad and Tobago.
Tourism has been the strongest performer, particularly in 1982-83, and
tourism earnings have been growing by about 18% per annum.
22.       With the disappointing export performance and rapid rise in
imports, there has been a sharp deterioration in the current account of the
balance of payments. This had been largely foreseen, since an explicit aim
of the economic recovery program had been to increase imports to stimulate
economic activity, to be financed by a higher level of borrowings until the
economy could be reoriented towards exports. The current account deficit
increased from US$167 million in 1980 (6.3% of GDP) to almost US$400
million in 1981 to 1983 (11 of GDP) before falling back to US$153 million
in 1984 (8% of GDP).



23.       It had been hoped, as noted above, that higher borrowing,
especially on soft terms from donors, would bring in sufficient resources
to cover the current external deficits and to build up the reserves
position of the Bank of Jamaica, which had declined every year since 1974.
However, negotiating official inflows took longer than expected, and it was
*            only in 1982 that reserves could be increased.  In 1983, a higher level of
inflow was maintained, but in anticipation of the devaluation of November
1983, there was a serious private capital outflow, which caused a further
major decline in net international reserves.  The successful 1984 program,
however, brought an improvement in reserves of US$234 m1llion.
24.        It was partly as a result of this performance on the balance of
payments that Jamaica failed to meet the targets of its arrangement with
the WIK in 1983/84. The three year arrangement agreed in March 1981 was
successfully complied with until March 1983, when the net foreign assets
test was missed by some US$140 million. A waiver was granted of the
performance criteria for the April 1983 purchase from the Fund, on the
basis that the shortfall of capital inflows in 1982/83--which was the major
reason for the failure of the test--would be made up, and the targets for
FY1983/84 were adjusted accordingly. However, the pace of adjustment--
particularly with regard to foreign exchange rate management, the fiscal
deficit, and credit control--was insufficient to meet the targets under the
1983/84 program, and the performance criteria were not met in September
1983. The Extended Arrangement was subsequently abandoned, and replaced by
a one-year Stand-By arrangement to cover the fiscal year 1984/85, which
came into effect in June 1984.
25.       The increased borrowings of the last three yearF have led to a
rapid build-up of external debt. This has also been compounded by the
devaluations of November 1983 - March 1984, in the sense that the volume of
debt now represents an increased share of GDP. External debt reached an
estimated US$3.2 billion (150% of GDP) by the end of 1984, compared to
US$1.7 billion at the end of 1980. However, only about a quarter of total
debt represents debts to commercial banks, with the balance being due
largely to bilateral donors and multilateral institutions. In 1984, the
debt service ratio reached the equivale.at of 53% of exports of goods and
services. Of total debt outstanding, 13% is due to the World Bank.
D. Economic Prospects
26.       The Government's economic program has begun to reverse the
negative trends of the economy. However, bauxite/alumina prospects have
recently worsened, and this is expected to cause a decline in GDP in 1985,
as the new situation called for further austerity measures. In 1986-1990,
growth of GDP of about 2% a year should be possible. However, with
investment falling in 1984-85, little growth in consumption would be
possible during this decade, particularly since national earnings would
also have to rise to about 20% of GDP, compared with only 8% of GDP in
1982-83.



8-
27.       After a sharp decline in 1985, exports of goods and services are
projected to grow by about 9% a year. Bauxite/alumina exports are now
projected to remain at their depressed 1985 levels, but nontraditional
exports ouside regional markets are expected to grow by about 20% a year.
The current balance of payments deficit is expected to continue to decline,
and be eliminated by the end of the decade.
28.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$170 million a year.  With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$550 million per annum, and this can be
expected to necessitate continued recourse to refinancing arrangements;
private flows are expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one
quarter of the required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will
remain high, and are projected to be at a level of close to 40% of exports
of goods and services throughout the 1980s. This is considered manageable,
although these levels imply that management of foreign exchange resources
will continue to be one of the major challenges in Jamaica for some time to
come. On the critical assumption that Jamaica continues to pursue
successfully its present stabilization and economic recovery program, it
should be considered creditworthy for only very limited external borrowing
on conventional terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
Introduction
29.       The Bank had approved 38 loans in Jamaica totalling US$626.8
million after cancellations as of September 30, 1984. Of this amount,
$187.9 million (30%) has been for infrastructure investments and technical
assistance in transportation, electric power, water supply and sewerage;
US$176.9 million (28%) for structural adjustment, program lending and
related technical assistance; US$98.6 million (16%) for a revolving fund
for financing of inputs for export industries; and the remainder has been
for agriculture and agroindustry (8%), education (4%), sites and services
(3%), forestry (2%), population and nutrition (2%), industrial development
(6%), and petroleum exploration (1%). As of September 30, 1984, Jamaica's
debt to the Bank stood at 5555.1 million, or 19% of external debt
outstanding and disbursed; debt service to the Bank during FY84 amounted to
US$42.2 million, or 7% of total debt service in 1984.  These shares are
not expected to change substantially in the next five years. The
undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of September 30, 1984, amounted to
US$157.1 million.  There have been four IFC investments in Jamaica, the
most recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour mill company.
30.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,



- 9 -
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank
lending took place in the late '70s which gave priority to financing to
*            help relieve the country's pressing balance of payments problems and
improve Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending
program contained a US$30 million program loan and an US$18 million loan
*            for the rehabilitation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sugar
industry. A US$31.5 million loan in FY79 was also directed at providing
needed balance of payments support, with most of the proceeds allocated t-
the financing of the import needs of export industries through the
establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund; additional loans to
augment its resources were made in FY81 (US$37 million) and FY83 (US$30.5
million). Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized that resolution of the
country's balance of payments difficulties will require making adjustments
to the economy over a period of time. The Government embarked on a
structural adjustment program in 1981; the Bank has supported this program
with three structural adjustment loans in FY82 (US$76.2 million) and FY83
(US$60.2 million), and FY85 (US$55.0 million). The technical assistance
requirements of the structural adjustment program were met through a
US$6.1million technical assistance loan made in FY82; the proposed loan
would continue these efforts. Additional support for the Government's
export program was provided by a US$13.5 million loan in FY82 for the
e.pansion of a free zone project in Kingston.
31.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of
maintenance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided loans for
highway maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 (US$16 million) and FY83
(US$15 million), as well as a US$30.5 million loan for a similar purpose
for the electric power system in FY82. A loan to support the Government's
efforts to privatize the urban transport system was approved in FY84.
Loans to promote the expansion of export agriculture (US$15 million), to
strengthen the National Water Commission (US$9 million) and to support the
Government's Public Administration Reform Program (US$4.5 million) were
approved by the Board in May 1984.
32.       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed mainly at the
following areas: (a) continued support for the structural adjustment
program; (b) projects in support of export development; (c) projects aimed
at rehabilitation and maintenance; and (d) priority projects in the areas
of human resource development and population. This possible program would
aim at establishing a correct balance between policy-based and project
lending. While several macro-economic policy issues have already been
addressed, additional reforms, particularly in the financial, manufacturing
and agricu'lture sectors, need to be made. While the possibility for
processing additional structural adjustment loans should not be excluded,
several of the remaining policy issues could be addressed through sector
loans. In this regard, an industrial sector loan is planned for FY86 which
would give particular priority to establishing and maintaining appropriate
incentives and the reform of the financial system. A project for the
rehabilitation of the sugar sector is also planned for the same fiscal



- 10 -
year; this project emphasizes a subsector-wide approach to the industry. A
broader agricultural sector loan is being considered in the future. The
lending program will also address the priority social sectors of human
resource development and population, as these areas are critical to
sustaining economic reform and development in the years to come.
33.       Several project loans in Jamaica have encountered delays in
execution in recent years. These delays have occurred for a variety of
reasons. Foreign exchange and fiscal constraints have affected progress of
some projects in the past.  In the case of the highway maintenance loan,             8
difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness relating to staffing
caused initial delays; inadequate counterpart contributions from the
Government have seriously impeded execation. Discussions with the
Government concerning possible restructuring of the project are currently
underway. The third EDF loan is not yet effective, and there is some
question as to whether the funds available under the loan will be needed.
A mission to review the status of the loan is scheduled for March 1985.
International recession affected demand for factory space to be constructed
uLder the Kingston Free Zone Project; demand has now accelerated and 20
factories are under construction. Weaknesses in management of the infant
National Development Bank (NDB) have contributed to a slow start for the
Industrial Credit Project; a pipeline of subprojects has now been
developed, and several subloans have been approved. The single most
serious obstacle to timely project execution remains the lack of skilled
personnel in the public sector; current Bank lending attempts to address
this problem in part through the provision of substantial levels of
technical assistance and an even greater focus on institution-building than
in the past, including, in particular, the Public Adminisrration Reform
Project. Both this project, as well as other recently-approved projects,
have included clearly focused training components designed to address the
longer-term provision of expertise for the public sector, so that technical
assistance will have a continued impact.
PART III: THE PROJECT
34.       Background.  The proposed project is directed at providing
critical technical assistance to support the execution of the Government's
structural adjustment program by developing key institutions, by improving
public sector finances, by promoting the expansion of exports outside of
CARICOM, and by supporting human resource development activities. The
project was identified in August, 1984 following a request by the
Government. It was appraised in October, 1984 and negotiated in Washington
in February, 1985. The Jamaican delegation was led by Mr. Harold Milner,
Financial Secretary. A Loan and Project Summary is at the front of this
report.
Objectives and Design
35.       The proposed project's overall purpose is to support the
Government's structural adjustment program. The principal goals of that
program include, inter alia, (a) increased domestic savings through
improved tax-revenue and public-enterprise-revenue generation and reduced
Government expenditures, (b) an improved balance of payments through



- 11 -
expansion of exports, (c) mobilization &nd development of human resources,
and (d) increased institutional capacity in particular for institutions
which are executing or are important to the structural adjustment effort.
This last objective is critical if the transformations in Government policy
undertaken in the last few years under the structural adjustment program
are to be sustained, and if the overall policy framework is to be
adequately responsive to changes in the international environment.    The
proposed project is designed to make direct contributions to the
achievement of these structural adjustment goals, by providing necessary
skills to strengthen key public institutions, in particular with regard to
better fiscal performance, by providing the means to strengthen and expand
nontraditional exports through direct technical assistance to exporters,
and by providing necessary financing for a study to review and recommend
change to the Jamaican incentives system. A second objective of the
project is to help improve the Government's ability to plan and administer
externally-financed technical assistance. Approximately 10% of loan funds
are allocated for other priority activities in support of the structural
adjustment program to be identified in the future.
36.       The Project's Institutional Development Activities ($3,140,000).
The proposed project's institutional development objective is to improve
and sustain the performance of key public-sector entities earmarked for
priority attention by the Government. The target entities are the
Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ), the revenue services (including
Customs and Excise, Income Tax and Inland Revenue), the Statistics
Institute, Air Jamaica Corporation and the National Investment Bank
(formerly Jamaica National Investment Corporation), and the Ministry of
Education. The technical assistance to be furnished to these entities
under the project will simultaneously address two institutional development
needs: strengthening staff capabilities through training and counterpart
relationships with the consultants; and strength aing managerial and
operational systems through reorganization and simplification. Detailed
technical assistance inputs for each activity are described below (paras.
40-44).
37.       The proposed project's institutional development focus stands in
contrast to the technical assistance activities financed under the first
Jamaican Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2106-JM; TAL I"). The earlier
loan intentionally had institutional development as only a secondary
objective. TAL I was conceived and designed to furnish a large number of
emergency injections" of technical assistance expertise--short-term
studies, public-enterprise management audits, etc.--to help the Government
get its structural adjustment program underway. Yet while that technical
assistance strategy was a reasonable response to the prevailing crisis, one
technical assistance design lesson confirmed by the TAL I experience was
that a host institution must absorb and adapt the injected expertise if the
impact of the technical assistance is to survive the consultant's



- 12 -
departure. The institution must "buy into" the technical assistance inputs
and acquire a sense of ownership in the introduced innovations. In TAL II,
sustained institutional transformation would be the chief objective of the
technical assistance.
38.       Care has been taken in designing TAL II's institutional
development component to build in mechanisms for securing the achievement
of institutional development objectives. The appraisal mission briefed
prospective TAL 11 host agencies on lessons learned from TAL I about
effective technical assistance performance; for example, the need to
interview candidates in person 'before hiring them as consultants, and the
need to support consultants wrlth adequate settling-4n and orientation
assistance and logistical services. In preparing consultants' terms of
reference, the responsible agencies have stressed the requirement for
consultants to pass on their technical expertise to their counterparts and
to undertake training activities. This is reflected not only in
allocations of time and money, but also in the criteria by which a
consultant's performance is to be judged. These include having trained
counterparts in place and functioning, and such objectives as revised
systems being planned, tested and implemented by target dates. For their
part, agencies would commit themselves to the identification and
positioning of qualified counterparts and trainees.
39.       The institutional development component's design has been
coordinated with other relevant Jamaican technical assistance programs
funded by the Bank and other donors to ensure complementarity and avoid
duplications and overlaps. On-going liaison has been established with the
two units administering the Bank's Public Administration Reform
Project (PARP): the Financial Resource Management Task Force and the
Committee on Public Service Reform. For those activities which are related
to the PARP, (Revenue Services and Public Investment Program monitoring)
consultation and coordination with the PARP administration has been built
into the terms o' reference. TAL II's proposed Planning Institute activity
has been discussed with UNDP, IDB and other interested multilateral and
bilateral donors. Possible cofinancing or cost-sharing arrangements were
explored in depth with UNDP; reduced resources available for its own
program in Jamaica prevented it from playing a significant financing role.
The revenue service activity has been planned in close collaboration with
the parties responsible for a second major Revenue Board initiative, the
USAID-financed tax structure reform project.  The proposed Statistics                9
Institute activity will implement institution-building recommendations of
the Institute's TAL I consultants. In a similar vein, the Air Jamaica
activity will carry forward consulting work commenced under the sponsorship          -
of the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation and bilateral donors.
40.       Strengthening the Planning Institute's Technical Assistance
Coordination and Administration Capabilities. The Planning Institute has
been charged by the Government with overall responsibility for coordinating
technical assistance to public-sector Jamaican entities, and for rendering
administrative support to those entities, as needed, in the latter's role
as clients and hosts of technical assistance consultants. As experience
with TAL I demonstrated, the Institute has lacked the institutional
capacity to execute this dual charge effectively. To help correct this



- 13 -
deficiency, the proposed loan would finance the services of one long-term
consultant to strengthen and systematize the Institute's capacity to plan,
coordinate and administer freestanding technical assistance, including TAL
II itself. In the case of both freestanding and project-related technical
assistance, the Institute's role is ancillary to, and supportive of, the
I'         technical assistance management responsibility of consultants' host
entities. (See paras. 55-58). TAL II support for this activity will
include 30 staff-months of consulting services plus office equipment and
V          training for Institute counterparts.
41.       Strengthening the Revenue Services.  The Government has
identified the strengthening of systems for collecting customs duties as a
top priority of the structural adjustment program: both to increase
revenues, expedite clearance of legitimate imports and reduce competition
from illicit imports. The Revenue Board is currently consolidating the
revenue services into three departments: Customs & Excise, Income Tax and
Inland Revenue (collections). In this context, TAL II support is sought in
two functional areas: strengthening the services' human resource
development program; and strenghening and simplifying the services'
operational systems. Technical as:istance for the former purpose includes
a Training Advisor, an Audiovisual Advisor, training equipment and
materials, and overseas training courses for professional officers. It
also includes a consultant to advise the Board on developing more
appropriate performance incentives and sanctions for those officers.
Technical assistance for the latter purpose will require two Management
Analysts to advise the Board on the revision, development and maintenance
of procedures, record-keeping and forms; and one Computerization Specialist
to assist the Board to identify what computerization system design and
specifications best satisfy the services' operational needs. A total of 6
consultants (4 long-term and 2 short-term) are proposed to serve for a
total of 7-1/4 staff years, together with supporting equipment and
training. This activity is being designed to complement the ongoing
USAID-financed tax reform program and the efforts of the Bank-financed
Public Administration Reform Project to strengthen the Ministry of Finance
and rationalize its functions.
42.       Support for the Monitoring of the Public Investment Program.  As
part of its structural adjustment program, the Government established
a multi-agency monitoring system for the public sector investment program
which produces quarterly reports concerning its physical and financial
implementation. Consultant services for the establishment and support of
this system were provided under TAL I with the services of a long-term
adviser and the system has improved substantially in terms of coverage and
usefulness. The proposed activity would provide 10 months of consultant
services over a period of about two years to help maintain and strengthen
the public investment program monitoring system.
43.       Strengthening the Statistical Institute.  The Statistical
Institute received the support of three advisors under TAL I in the
functional areas of economic statistics policy, labor and consumer price
index estimates and computerization. Additional TAL II funding is required
in two other areas: training support in the form of a long-term Training



- 14 -
Advisor, training equipment and overseas courses for the Institute's
professional staff; and a Technical Advisor to assist the Institute in
designing, implementing and maintaining a Central Register of business
enterprises and in utilizing that register to establish a computerized
socioeconomic data bank. In addition, It is proposed that TAL II support a
collaborative effort by the Statistics Institute and the Bank of Jamaica to             a
conduct a flow-of-funds exercise. The objective of the latter exercise is
to support the structural adjustment program by developing a planning tool
enabling the Government to allocate scarce financial resources on a more
rational basis. This exercise will require 4-1/2 ataff-months of
intermittent short-term consulting services, plus supporting computer
hardware and software.
44.       Strengthening Air Jamaica's Management Capabilities.  Air
Jamaica, a Government-owned company, having suffered substantial losses
during the past five years, has identified a technical assistance program
directed at maximizing revenues by upgrading its managerial performance.
Air Jamaica is one of the sixteen public enterprises for which financial
targets for the next three years have been established under the Third
Structural Adjustment Loan. No specific action program had been developed
in the SAL context, but the proposed technical assistance will assist the
Government in identifying specific actions necessary to achieve the
financial targets that have been established. TAL II support is sought for
four functional areas: a Deputy General Manager with operational
experience in the industry to work in tandem with the General Manager in
developing Jamaican counterparts; a Revenue Accounting Advisor to review
and revise the Corporation's accounting procedures, transfer knowhow to
counterparts and train financial staff; an Electronic Data-Processing
Advisor to advise on continuing computerization of the Corporation's
information systems, with particular emphasis on adapting off-island
industry software; and a Marketing Analyst to establish Corporate systems
for traffic revenue projections and for analysis of revenue performance. A
total of 70 staffmonths of consulting services will be required, plus an
additional provision for training equipment and overseas training courses.
45.       Providing Transitional Support to the National Investment Bank of
Jamaica.  The National Investment Sank of Jamaica (formerly the Jamaica
National Investment Corporation) was established in 1974 to invest the
proceeds of the bauxite levy. Since that time, it has become involved in a
wide range of activity, including joint ventures with the private sector,
management consulting, and acting as a holding company for certain
Government enterprises. The Government intends to consolidate and
rationalize the institution's role to focus on two major priorities:
mobilization of private sector investment through equity participation in
joint ventures, and management and eventual divestment of a number uf
Government-owned companies. It has requested assistar,ce with this process
in the form of a senior Advisor with merchant banking experience for two
years.
46.       The Project's Export Promotion Activities (US$3,420,000).
Complementing TAL II's institutional development component is a second
group of technical assistance activities to be financed by the same loan.
The latter activities share the common objective of promoting the expansion



- 15 -
of non-CARICOM exports, a major current thrust of the Government's
structural adjustment program. TAL II's export-promotion activities
include a comparative advantage and incentives study, (ii) establishing a
technical assistance fund for export (TAFEX) in the Jamaica Export Credit
and Insurance Corporation (JECIC), including financing of consultant
support for the establishment and management of the Fund.
47.       The impetus for the first of these activities, the incentives
study, was a recommendation arising from SAL III appraisal deliberations.
The study will examine the impact of the existing Jamaican and CARICOM
incentives system upon productive activities in Jamaica, in order to
support the Government's policy of trade liberalization initiated under the
structural adjtistment program and to identify with more precision the
probable effect of these policy changes upon manufacturing and other
economic sectors. The activity for the provision of technical assistance
to exporters had originally been proposed for financing under the third
Export Development Fund loan. Their transfer to TAL II was agreed upon by
the Government and the Bank in order to expedite the provision of technical
assistance which was deemed critical to the success of the Government's
structural adjustment program. Details of the several activities'
objectives and scope are set out immediately below..
48.       Conducting a Comparative Advantage and Incentives Study.
The Planning Institute would host this study, which would analyze the
present Jamaican incentives system and Jamaica's international competitive
position and make proposals for policy reforis designed to orient
production towards third-country exports. A team of consultants would be
engaged for approximately 40 staff-months of intermittent services.
Training and equipment for the d.tvelopment of a permanent unit in the PIOJ
to monitor industrial and trade p)olicy wou]d also be funded.
49.       Establishing a Technical Assistance Fund for Ex;,ort (TAFEX).
TAFEX is designed to finance direct technical assistance to non-Caricom
Jamaican exporters (manufacturer<; and farmers). The intended technical
assistance would include consult:Lng services for market research, testing
and development and for production, product and packaging development, as
well as limited quality-control equipment. US$2.5 million of the loan
would be on-lent by the Government to Jamaica Export Credit Insurance
Corporation (JECIC) at an interest rate 3JL% over the Bank rate and on the
same term as the Bank loan to establish the Fund (The 3/4% differential
would cover the Government's cross-currency risk) (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(c)). JECIC, in turn, as Fulnd manager, would make sub-loans to
-          exporters to purchase needead teclnical assi;tance.  JECIC staff would
administer sublending operations, subject tc' policy direction by a
private/public Management Committee created by JECIC's Board of
Directors. The USS-denominated subloans would be at an interest rate
equivalent to 2-3/4% above the Bank interest rate p.a. (plus a 1% p.a.
commitment charge on the undisbursed balance), for a term of 4-10 years,
including up to 3 years of grace, depending on the nature of the activity
funded. (JECIC Project Agreement, Section 2.03(a)). Demand is estimated
at about 10 loans/annum, averaging about US$E10,000. The minimum subloan
amount would be US$10,000 and the maximum US!il50,)00; hiowever, subloans



- 16 -
outside this range could be made in special cases with the approval of the
Bank. The first six subloans, regardless of their size, would require
prior Bank approval; thereafter, only subloans above $100,000 would require
prior approval. After one year of operation, a joint Government/Bank
review would be held to determine the future demand for funds under the
TAFEX.
50.       The proposed Loan would also finance the services of one
long-term consultant, with relevant private sector experience in project               N
appraisal and term lending, to assist JECIC in establishing and maintaining
a system for TAFEX management. TAL II funds for this activity would also
support JECIC's TAFEX promotion program, including exporters' seminars and
the production and distribution of informational materials.
51.       As previously noted, Government execution of an action plan based
upon the conclusions of the TAL II Exoort Incentives Study is a condition
for the release of SAL III's second tranche. A subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and JECIC satisfactory to the Bank would need to be
executed prior to loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01ta)). In addition, to manage TAFEX, JECIC would hire a project
coordinator and a consultant with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank,
and JECIC's Board of Directors would approve the TAFEX Summary Policies and
Proceduree as discussed and agreed at negotiations as conditions for
effectiveness (Draft Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01(e) and 6.01(b)).
52.       The Bank appraisal mission confirmed that the proposed Loan's
export-promotion activities would complem'3nt and not duplicate other
technical assistance efforts underway in Jamaica. JECIC's capabilities for
managing TAFEX have been enhanced by its prior experience administering the
Rehabilitation Fund financed by the InterAmerican Development Bank and the
Export Development Fund. In preparing their applications for TAFEX
subloans, exporters will be able to draw on professional assistance from
the Jamaica Natimnal Export Corporation as well as two USAID-financed
entities: the Jamaica Exporters Association's new Marketing Secretariat,
and the Agro 21 organiz. ion. Finally, it is anticipated that the
long-term technical assistance services tc. be made available to exporters
by TAFEX will complement the shc-t-term (1-3 month) consulting services
which exporters are currently receiving :rom the International Executive
Organization and the British Executive Setrvice Overseas.
53.       Human Resources Development Activity (US$430,000).  One of the
most persistent difficulties confronting Jamaica has been high unemployment
levels. At the same time, many scarce skills are unavailable or must be
imported at considerable expense. The development of human resources and
the generation of productive employment are major goals of the Government's
economic program. As a first step in this direccion, the project would
finance a manpower planning study and help strengthen the Population and
Manpower Division of the PIOJ. The study would include the financing and
analysis of three sample surveys (approximately 27 staffmonths) of
approximately 4,500 establishuents to determine the industrial and
occupational composition of emnployment and to identify the likely
industrial/occupational maix by 1990, as well as 12 staffmonths of the
services of a vocational training specialist .eho will assist the work team



- 17 -
in assessing available training programs to produce skilled workers and
technicians. The activity would also provide training in the preparation
of a manpower plan and the ongoing monitoring of the country's situation in
regard to employment and skills developments and supporting equipment.
54.       Assistance to the Ministry of Education.  A second activity in
this area would provide support to the Ministry of Ed:%cation to strengthen
its management of the educational system by assessing the audit and
accounting capabilities of local school management with special reference
to the regional offices, school boards and principals (about 1,000 units).
The services of a School Administrator for ID staff months and 8
staffmonths of short-term consultants specialized in auditing, accounting
and computer science plus supporting computer hardware and software would
be funded.
Project Management
55.       Management of Lhe technical assistance to be financed by the
proposed loan will be decentralized to the client entities hosting the
several technical assistance activities. These hosts will be the Planning
Institute, in the case of the Planning Institute and Export Incentives
Study activities, the Revenue Board and the Ministry of Finance in the case
of the Revenue Services activity, JECIC in the case of the TAFEX and JECIC
activities, and the Statistics Institute, Air Jamaica, NIBJ and the
Ministry of Education, respectively, in the case of the TAL II activities
which concern those institutions. Each client entity's technical
assistance management responsibility vis a vis the activity it is hosting
will include planning and designing the activity, drafting Terms of
Reference, identifying, recruiting and selecting consultants, and
monitoring and evaluating those consultants' performance. This
decentralization places management authority and responsibility in the
institution best qualified to assess specific technical assistance needs
and to supervise technical assistance delivery. These responsibilities
would be defined in the project's operating guidelines (see paragraph 58).
56.       The Planning Institute will have overall responsibility for
coordinating the project's separate activities and for rendering
administrative support to the activities' host entities, as needed. l..e
Institute's coordination function will include: .) briefing host-entity
personnel and consultants on the structural adjustment program; (b)
facilitating communication and, as appropriate, cooperation between
different TAL II activities; (c) facilitating communication and, as
appropriate, cooperation between those same activities and other on-going
Jamaican technical assistance projects financed by the Bank and other
donors, including the Public Administration Reform Project; and (d)
monitoring overall project progress and compiling periodic progress
reports.
57.       The Institute's administrative function, in turn, will include
assisting host entities, on request, with consultant identification and
recruitment, contracting with consultants, providing consultaILts with
on-arrival services, paying consultants, and facilitating consultants'
reporting. The TAFEX activity will be separately administered, the



- 18 -
Planning Institute will have no administrative relationship with the
exporters' consultants financed out of the TAFEX fund. This is to reduce
to a minimum bureaucratic requirements affecting disbursement of TAFEX
funds.
58.       The Planning Institute's coordination and administration of the
prior loan, TAL I, have only partially fulfilled expectations.  Inadequate
Institute staff resources (personnel and time) have been available for this
responsibility, and consulting support available under TAL I was not
utilized.  TAL II has been designed to help correct these difficulties and
to strengthen the Planning Institute's ability to administer technical
assistance. First, guidelines covering (i) the respective responsibilities
of the Planning Institute and the host entities; (ii) cc.mmon minimum
standards for the different activities, consultants' benefits, including
transport and other in-kind support, as well as monetary benefits; and
(iii) a common reporting system were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
Adoption of these guidelines is a condition of loan effectiveness (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). Second, the duties of the TAL II
consultant assigned to the Institute (para. 40) would include strengthening
and systematizing the Institute's technical assistance planning,
coordination and administration capabilities in general  and in supporting
management of the proposed project in particular. The recruitment of this
consultant is a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(d)). Under TAL I, the UNDP's Office of Project Execution
assisted in the recruitment of consultants for a fee equivalent to 5% of
the contract value; since the number of activities is substantially smaller
under the proposed loan, such assistance is not necessary.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$10.4 million, with an estimated foreign exchange component
of US$9.0 million (86% of total project costs). The proposed loan would
finance the entire estimated foreign exchange component of the project.
The cost of externally recruited consultants has been estimated on the
basis of comparable consultant costs in Jamaica as of October, 1984. Price
contingencies were derived from the following estimates of international
inflation and were calculated on the basis of US$ base costs: 5% in 1985,
7.5% in 1986, and 8Z in 1987-89. No physical contingencies were included.
Procurement and Employment of Consultants
60.       All consultants would be recruited and selected in conformity
with Bank Guidelines (draft PIOJ Project Agreement, Section 2.04, and draft
JECIC Project Agreement, Section 2.05). Since purchases of goods under the
Loan will be in batches too small for International Competitive Bidding
procedures, procurement of goods would be done in conformity with local
procurement procedures requiring competitive shopping and quotations from
at least three suppliers (draft PIOJ Project Agreement, Section 2.03).



- 19 -
61.       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 100X of foreign expenditures Eor supporting equipment and
materials (US$0.5 million equivalent);
(b) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and training
(US$4.8 million equivalent);
(c) l00X of foreign expenditures for consultants' recruitment
costs (US$25,000);
(d) 100X of JECIC foreign exchange disbursements for TAFEX
subloans (US$3.1 million equivalent);
(e) Initial deposit into Special Account for JECIC/TAFEX
(US$0.20 million); and
(f) Initial deposit into Special Account for PIOJ (US$0.4
million).
Contingency funds have been allocated proportionally among disbursement
categories. Disbursements would take place over a 31 year period. They
would be against standard documentation for all items except those under
US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditures certified by JECIC or the Planning Insitute.
62.       In order to reduce the interval between the time payments would
be made by the Borrower and receipt of reimbursement from the Bank, two
Special Accounts would be established, one in the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) for
PIOJ-administered activities and one in a commercial bank satisfactory to
the Bank for TAFEX-related activities, from advances of loan proceeds. The
Special Accounts would be denominated in US dollars and would be
established with an initial deposit of US$0.4 and 0.2 million,
respectively, approximately equivalent to average projected quarterly
disbursements. The Accounts would be used by the Planning Institute and by
JECIC for project expenditures. The Government would request replenishment
of the Special Accounts by the Bank through standard disbursement
procedures. In view of the establishment of the Special Accounts, the Bank
would not be requested to finance withdrawal applications valued below
US$20,000 equivalent.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
63.       The PIOJ and JECIC would establish and maintain consolidated
project accounts for all expenditures financed under this loan in a clearly
identifiable manner. The Special Accounts, as well as other accounts and
supporting records pertaining to the services and goods financed under the
loan, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within four
months. PIOJ would submit quarterly reports to the Bank on the progress of
project activities. JECIC would provide the same for the operations of
TAFEX. Detailed documentation for subproject expenditure would be retained
by JECIC for inspection by Bank supervision missions and external
auditors. PIOJ and the agencies involved would also je responsible for the
preparation of a project completion report.



- 20 -
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The proposed project would make a significant contribution to the
Government's structural adjustment program. Successful implementation of
the proposed project's institutional development component should improve
the fiscal performance of the revenue services and Air Jamaica, and should
leave in place upon project completion host agencies with strengthened
managerial skills and operational systems capable of sustained
effectiveness. The proposed project's export promotion component, in turn,
can substantially enhance the quality of Jamaica's export environment by
giving exporters access to financing for critical technical assistance at
below market rates.
65.       The proposed project's main risks are (a) that the planned skills
transfers from consultants to local counterparts should not prove
sufficient to support sustainable institutional development, and (b) that
Planning Institute management of the project should not be able to correct
prior ineffectiveness in that agency. The Government and the Bank have
anticipated these possible problems and, as described above, have built
appropriate safeguards into the project design. Also, uncertainty exists
concerning potential demand for US$-denominated TAFEX resources; as a
consequence, the initial funding has been limited and the program would be
carefully reviewed throughout implementation and at the end of one year in
particular with regard to its helpfulness to exporters and its funding
requirements.
PART IV: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately along with the Report of
the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank. Special conditions of loan effectiveness include
appointment of a consultant for PIOJ and a project coordinator and a
consultant for JECIC to assist in management of the proposed project,
adoption of appropriate guidelines and procedures for project management by
the same two agencies, and execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and JECIC, and of a subsidiary agreement between Government and
PIOJ.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date: February 26, 1985



- 21-                                         ANEX I
Page 1 of 6
.iacA                 - sOCIAL Im      DIf                       A
NOT                (NUT   T   luT     > a
InL       i1ioa                   IAT.    I  a on              uUuT
an (urn go. M)
TOrTAL                              1.         11.0        11.0
ACRICLTUlAL                          4.9        4.9        4.7
G   I  Ci- (no)                       420.0      730.0      1330.0            2103.6                 2345.3
(KILO      F  OIL EQUIVALENT)      449.0      960.0     1132.0              995.5                 1122.3
POrL&TOs A  nVA  sucs
POPULATION.NID-EAR (TNUIAS)    1429.0        1877.2     2246.0
URBA  POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)       33.7       41.4       47.7               64.5                   44.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN EAR 2000 (HILL)                            2.9
BTATIONART POPULATION (MILL)                             4.5
POPULATION NOENTIM                                       1.6
POPULATION D00s51
PER SQ. a.                       148.2      170.3      200.4               35.7                   82.9
PER SQ. D1. ARI. LAND            334.5      337.1      468.5               92.4                  156.9
POPLATION AGE STEUCTURE (Z)
0-14 Us                          41.7       47.0       39.3               39.9                   31.4
15-64 nS                         54.0        47.5       54.4               56.0                   41.1
65 AND ABOVE                       4.3        5.6        6.0                4.1                    7.1
POPULATION QITOSH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              1.5 /c     I.4 /Ic    1.5  c             2.4                    1.6
33Ml                               3.6        3.5        2.6                3.6                    3.7
CR330E *1RrN KATE (PER TO3)         42.0       34.6       27.3               31.3                   2J.4
CRUOE DATH uAT  PEl TUOUS)           8.3        7.7        5.4                3.1                    1.8
GROSS *EPRODUCTION RATE              2.6        2.7         1.8               2.0                    1.6
FANILY PLANING
ACCEPTORS. ANIAL (TU'OUS)          ..        19.3       27.0 Id
USERS (I OP SMIED   13)             ..         ..       55.0 s             40.3
lNDU  OF FOOD PROD. PON CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       93.0       ".0        90.0              114.3                  114.5
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)      94.0      111.0      119.0              110.6                  123.6
PROTEINS (GRAS PER DAY)          S8.0        67.0       65.0               67.3                   89.7
OF WHICH ANIPIAL AND PULSE      23.0       33.0       34.0 /I            34.1                   34.5
CIlLO  CASES 1-4) DEATH RATE         4.0        2.0        0.3                5.7                    5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT 3lRDT (YtEARS)     62.7        67.0       72.5               64.7                   67.4
INFANT 5OR1. ATE (PER TROlUS)      52.0        32.0       10.0               60.6                   54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE HATER (EPoP)
TOTAL                             20.9 lb    62.0       86.0 /d            65.4
UMR"N                            64.6 7Wr   100.0      1oo-0 7J            78.1
RURAL                              5.7 7W7    43.0      79.0 7;            46.2
ACCSS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       94.0       94.0 /d            52.9
URBAN                              ..       100.0      100.0 77            67.0
RURAL                              ..        92.0       91.07;rd           24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA           2590.0     2640.0     2330.0 /a          1917.7                 1065.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           420.0 /1  1730.0       430.0 re           615.4                  764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL 3D
TOTAL                            240.0      240.0         ..              367.2                  326.3
UBN                              200.0 Li   250.0         ..              411.5                  201.5
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..             2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           .        17.0                          27.3                   20.0
1101)5U
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.9        4.3
URBAN                             2.7          ..
RURAL                              4.3
AVERAGE NO. OF PEESONSIROO
TOTAL                              1.9        1.6         ..                 .                      .
URBAN                              1.6         ..
RURAL                              2.0         ..
ACCCSS TO ELECT. (Z OP PIELLINCS)
TOrAL                               ..         ..
URBA                                 .         ..          ..                ..                     ..
RURAL                               ..         ,,



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Nlon                 (oOIS (C=    033  R)    b
IIT EDDLZ XI(I06? ECRIIT
191A       WOO-    3sT        L      16AI                       N C  A CM  loam
ooCA2eL OI     CAr
3105115 EUOLJIUTm RATIOI
wrmIYt   TOTAL                      92.0        113.0       39.0                 10S.4                   101.1
ILE                      32.0        113.0        39.0                10.3                    105.5
WUIL                     93.0        113.0       100.0                104.5                    96.7
ICOONDAIRT  TOTAL                   43.0        46.0         56.0                45.2                     59.1 
HALE                     44.0         44.0        34.0                .2.5                     66.3
73N3L3                   46.0        45.0         12.0                44.5                     50.6
VOCATIOUAL (Z OF 5U3OIDAR)             3.0         3.3         35.                 33.6                     21.6
FPUPIL-T3ACIIR RATIO
nAPAIAL                             56.0        47.0         41.0                30.1                     25.1
ScOOmaT                             21.0        26.0         22.0 /              L6.6                     20.5
ADULT LlTERACT Mu  CZ)                81.9        96.1         *0.0                79.5                     73.6
PA5BV1QKR CIS/TIOUOAND P0             20.3        36.5           ..                  6.0                    54.7
RADIO RICIVTAl/TUOURAND 101           90.2       246.4       531.0                225.6                    L64.3
TV INCEIWEIS/TIOUAIs PO                7.0        37.3         74.9               107.2                    123.8
N1PAP  (CAILy QI111UL
1X131S) CIRCULATION
M  IIOIUwI  PLTION                  52.0        113.8          .. /0             63.5                     36.3
CXNII  UIIIIL ATTRIDANCOCGWITA          ..          ..           ..                 2.6                      2.9
U  100
TOTAL LI   F ORC101  13005)          607.0       634.0        527.0
Fatal (PUC3131)                     37.2        36.6         40.0                25.2                     34.5
JRICULTUII (13 C301)                33.4         23.5        35.3                113.                     40.7
IOUTR (131l3S)                      24.8        25.6         17.6                13.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (P31CE33)
TOTAL                               37.3         33.6        36.6                32.2                     42.9
HALE                                46.7         42.4        44.9                19.3                     54.7
FINALE                              26.7         25.6        29.0                15.2                     31.0
ECOIIIC DZPEDSUCY RATIO                1.2          1.6         1.2                 1.4                      0.9
now DISTRIBUTION
P.CUT O  PRIVATE INCOEK
XC33s3T 52  O 31LDS                 30.2  1        ..
GSXT 21 f 01 U.US.MOLD6             61.                                                                     ..
LOVEST 20S o0   2.U230L              2.2...
LOESE  401 Of 50530N3L8.
ESTINATID AUBOLUTE  OMRmT tl03
LVEL (Us3 PER CAPIT
111                                    ..          ..       501.0 a             268.2
RURAL                                  ..         ..        439.0               184.0
ESSTIATED UULATm POVT    X
LEVEL (US PI3 CAPITA)
a5                                    ..           ..       3S.   /             522.6
RLw                                    ..         ..        503.o               372.4
ESTIATnD ?0O. 33101 ABLT
POlE!! IIcoEE LEVEL CZ)
01651                                  ........
URAL                                   ..         .. NO.0..
MTO AVAILABLE
MOT AP?LICABLE
It O T I I
/   The gsip averoe for mubh SUaaer are population-modshcod wrtmmtic m..  Coverang of countries awa  the
indleatore dePmnd -  aellabLlity of  ata and is  nt muniosr.
b  UDle. othmsru g muted,    to  for 1760' colr to a" yea: betwee  1953 and 13411 'Uata for 1970' between 1933 and
1971; aw data for  bmet Vagtna    tmatn' betw_  1960 tM  13U2.
IC  Due to  ir at1   populeties prooth rate is lowe  than rate of natural inat"     I /o 11751 A  19731 / A4eo  15-441
Ia 1977; A  P.reerata    of dw'1liap wlth piped wet.; it 1t33 1 11 nG2   k 1,764i7h  1956.
Ju.7   1964



S'  fcA   USd A.  -  2 at              -S.S .dq.cccA    fl=tD 
.ii.i ..Sl%s5 J.    Sc      .s.~1.          iS.c.   A1.ci   SSS
-  I~'S~lt .nA.. -  PSSSS AP sA Vp         a    ft.ldSD   Ac-Pd 
I     -A5c SlA.;AA-55)pt   SACD    S)l   355   ~'SS
-SSiS*iC'   CflSS    -'tA's  Ic- -PASU.a       15
dD)    It c., .15 'c S.ASI)SnS     155.IASA    Sts    S
R                                                                                                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5  bS SSc 5 AA*Asa)iD'~i ... 15 5555
5D .1~5S'   c   iit  SS-      ICAS-SA                                                           * DAP .....c'S'.          5)55 fS-  -  PDS.St.   iD*ST 1.   i
-1. 3-1  -  --j= IZ:                 11 "' -*i.A                                                           -s-  z.  *   c             " '075 IJi- -
de.-(SS')iScS  SSc    3lS*             CI1   0.  'CS'S    cSS
'a..  nS  S5SIScl 3  *S~ADtH.AS  *SSSS.*~ SSD1
55A  t' 545 SSI'S  Si  5551SatA  ASI   StiS CIc! *.SSIA                     DSP US' -   ~Ac             SDUCA Sil SS. S'I. .51..D..ASad
5)541 AS SAS. * p15.-sS  i IS*i   na - c      Tc.IlAIA .*pjcsS    c                                                 dJ                  .             ss   p
-    . M~ip     - 5~I ASCS                  I..5 a1     MSASj-dISId   .5IS                       'SS"        i     hS   55  -*c~S3AA*D   15...cJ.5c
Se.i.   c.A-   Pc-SSS. *.S.a, ID   aS-I,S iS                                                                   I.D I.AA lll)    is 'S.AD - 'CC   '*    iiAP *
P     .-I P.                   4.7SICA   ilS  AiJ.."cS S                       . c-.e  1       '  r-S.l 1-SA    ,''c              oA.
11 d.AI  ~ ~     ~     ~     ScDcaD  S.ASAl   ~"i1  Sc   I.D .A.l .. .I SS -SSASS   -S                    I.-
llt.tI p5.   ~    cSSS1SASA*NS AA.'S 51.1. .tc.  Oc    ASAAlSSlcD   c)SSI.*55    . SA.5S,5;v
Id. M-  -14-       5515.5.-In   5S   id   5   Sn5c  5                           D.St c.ISIAS   ISSc   .  'SSSIAA-Ac  5..5 . 5.fl.S
'd.S)AI  C' U-IS. didsw UDUAS VW,JDSAI              .     O   IUAiS                          LS  Dc   cSS  DiS   D  tS   D                 S)   ~S*S.55c.
*DSA d1 SAcD   .1            55555'SA           55   55   '  55    I                                          a      SS..AAIDS   SAS-55ASSS:*                             .
'A5S5ISSSA   555'5SAc  ciSSDSS  5CI  M   555 *5'S  A  S*Sj*SAD     AS D iS' AA   dlc   c~SiSiSDS   i iASSpS~  I. A  )c5SicS  clSS
-    AS   OA5   IS   S   1 'IIS      S)S           )SSSS  A5DSS`SA   D...5555  55.A .....,SAMSS  5                                                           .. 51r  b
AS SSCSDAASIASS -SlSS~ 55   cm  %SccccAAcAS   lU  Al)l'SlS  caSAZ                                                                                          5155.-d-  .J
-edjc    mlqD   puA se   S.D.SAS-   SAS  A55SISi-  .S. lSAAIAASi                                   155  ASiS5511               U. .      "I' .....   A'S.W      wc .p
':*-I    -jalp Me   PSAAb!'555  Pctcl.dflS&a.
II-   SASt SSSA)55i -  IASD St    55         PdCS 'si~              lose-I                                           - l-S.01
-ftill-M 1- Set     I  Om AU..                      DIAA   A  SUcAA  -S ls'.                       ..dI A ..cDl. .     .. r'W5S :.Sdd'US
- 'StcSdfSt"" 5  'SCSSIfl  5.555Th)ASS  55 C-Apll5. Il.St*                                                                                                     'ASSd
5    SSn)  ACA USSS55cieAEcAl I  5555- I                     *cAASS  AS`.$  SdSS5 - PD.S'S.   5555P- 55    ,5- I.cd    IS
pSpSSSASSSASet 55  SASSS  AS-SflDSS Steps             cql .cS) AiScI te  )hsm J.P  A1:1SSwAie   AD   cccc A..t -   (. tDc. AJ,                              SI  A.I-F
lbo-ol -i-P  md                                                                  PdSS*5  SDdS05D  SUAM-A: 5a- -ism  - ISc&''.   'SlUSISSAS aSig
ScSSelJc  tc'5aAs               -5a1AAdS            SSSS5   8S5SI                               SA   S  55  SSP515-SA   -IcSSADSI53535.5"  cDs'lA
SIpSA  AShSASSUSAD   p  .5. S t *-UcSDin  5S.l)    ."I      Vdd.11 5'S) SJifA   c1555                            *is54'- A-        '.5ttl  '-tAl   S   SlS5S 
...   "BW  def5eSSS  l AASSS-pU                    '-Oft PesDC    8 *55  - iS' -ScSid - S SDJASI Sa    hd    D'SSc
ASS'S eSaf   SASA ASCSS-      S - ft  Pso..CI Mll   edcS a"S  Adwis   MeDic)                        Ac-51   A. SISSdAAdAs  Seeded5 55  SSS  It   SA'S   -'*DSD
"M.W. 411MIMW   JOSSISIdead .3seelletwedES  D@-asASS 'ISA . LIW.S-USV U AsMS'A55                                                     NotsAAI  53 'Gig Ish
'A lSS Me  Sc   S5    SS1ID5DAAS ciWt.  SS  jSdd    Smvq   -I'osSA5515  SDASudAII  ADA- SesSS  55vss 55.50                              - U-   do USSIDA S 't5D
-   5)5wSD -Si PS *UD   '5        SA)IcSlDSA   cJ*5555US                                                                          S   ''US  At55555A    5
551 Si .ft"     iSSst tPSA Gist ASIAc   .SAISA
p      'Sts SS l UIea   S'SIt ' ASes"AC A    WVlfl     CADASc     M.de                   lAS cS 555   15adidUcssA5S  5 ShU'S w acLIUIACA  555  SDUS"."            t
elSIU~   SlScc       nflAS   SScAc             S'Sid   i.'I.-A.A*0 St  ScSUSdS-  PSASS1   SU I- ASC1  SU e S -lSIA                                     Sc
.. aS Sses sACs5SSDAS 'i-         S~SAA   Di  SA5SS5514IC   pc'S-Sa  11cIicc   S c sessDAS                                                            in' SUeatliS.SASS     it
a).    UU" cSSS "    IDA. AS ).SAASU Aled ~        -add1. '5551SAS   SA 1S Sp sAides'       Ve     SaSS Sclfed 5)SAI 'stl'SdASS    '555551 'S  55dol   -eses   eva55 'I UUSlcS
OIS SAwA SiccInte USSAf acnedeAsSdiese- Mde "rpm55 We5 "S'SS.,v ' idstcDPl SdsS1A seU lsosc A)lslA in SS1i RP. SAS efted'S "SStS44
"aP'S "W            1   % jS Wdlp SIMONS  a.ew aUmA   AS      N.J.&U. MeDed PciSSIc p            55- "VddW[ cWeSUS 55'idel assd Aseed 15)5 SIII 'SAS  twit SA-A)s        -U
AS) USIUSS   ADSsE-   es. .1S~INISDA--iP  "I  ftAAS( S. 1  55  C'SSS                   cdi   SeSA Dlt  cr. IsSlt eSI  5D55a55 Sm UPSS   'U1 55A5 -:tsA'IS
5.555455  S    s    "  WADA M   MM$omM--P-    Is US1                        la eSC             AllIvS, e    4 SA ~ISAllcade*l t*  'iSS   - C.idASSS p..PI     S -  5-Si     . -.cA
I       UAx   5*   51cSS    c -IT e W-TJ E !~.AISSSDASi0'   e-                                                                           ASSD    5           c)USDAITI



- 24 -
Afmx I
Pap 4 of 5
JAUICAl EUGO"IC INICAT0
b(liIIon IS at               Astumi                                                   Prel.
current primel
N83       1975   1976   IS97    178   1979  INO   II         1952     1163      1964
PRICES
P OWlWiter WJs 1174-1O0)                 121.2  134.0  150.4  1U.4  219.6  256.0  277.3   300.3   351.2    459.9
Exnhngr Rsb UW  par L507 0.91   0.11    1.25   1.48   1.77   1.78   1.78    1.76    2.15                          4.60
Shenr of 1  at lbrhet Prima t()         knrap Annual races.e IS)
(at owrent pries)                   Cot .e.t. t 1974 prles)
1976        l1I        10          IM0   1975        195144   IS5-9
RMTIONAL ACCOltIS a/
Oros DOmtic Product            29.4         100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0    -1.4        1.4        0.7
Agricultsrw                   23.9         7.9          7.5        8.2         8.2    -1.0        2.1        3.2
Industry                     1015.2       34.8        3.2         31.3        32.9    -3.7       -0.8        0.0
Services                     1700.3        57.3        59.3       60.5        569    -0.2         2.3        0.9
Ceamption                      221.3        93.0         89.2       73.9        76.0    -3.0        0.5       -1.8
Gran fOmrtle In.s_bmnt          625.4       20.5         21.3       20.7        17.0    .4.4        6.8        3.9
Exports SfS bS                 1409.2       29.6         47.9       74.9        75.6     2.1        1.4        2.1
ImWports  Fs b/               1716.4       43L1        -5L4 -.64.              -70.6    -3.7        1.6       -LO
Gros Natimi Saving             250.2       10.2          L6        16.1        14.2   -14.9       15.4      535
As Z of  P                                Prelmifnlry
1977/1e     1979/00    11961/ I/9a 2/3              190/64
IUiLIC FINICE et
Current Rsemus                            27.0         21.4       27.6       27.6              23.9
Current Expnditore                        26.2         30.6       32.0       32.6              33.1
Surplus  ) r Deficit C-)                  -6.2         -4.2       -4.4       -5.0              -9.2
Capitol Expendlitrw                       11.3          8.5       12.0       11.4               7.4
Faig9 Flnnc (net)                         0.7          3.3        9.4        6.4               5.1
i/At wrkat p less.
bV bied on balnos of pqapnts dab.
V Fil yer - Aprillbrch 31. Flgres refar t. Central GCnrnt qeratlons.
Esthtebd.
Februrry 1965



- 25 -
AnnexI
Page 5 of 6
JAAICAs ECN0h4C HtICATORS
1976-01       1981-84        19140
OIMER 1IOICATORS
1wI Growth Ibte CS)                      -1.9            0.9           0.2
NP Wr Capita  rOFOW  Pt R S)             -2.9           -0.1          -0.8
ICOR                                    -17.7           10.6           8.5
IUIrglIn  Seviug Rate                     8.0           16.4          S3S
Imprt Elasticity                          4.6            0.8           0.8
Anmal Growth Rate (S)
Aimunt                                    (at constant 1974 prices)
(mllio ln t6S at
current prlss)                 Actwal                             Est.      Projected
Ind.cator                        1984          1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982          1993   1986    1990
EXTERNA TRAE
;rchlndies Exports Cf.o.b.)   735.7           6.6   -7.0    0.9   -Z.1      0     -13.2        0.6    4.8      7.2
laxittAlLAuIn               501.7          17.Z    3.6    0.0    7.4    3.3   -29.7          0.8    0.0      0.0
sug.rrB,nanr                 48.2          -6.1   -7.1   -4.6  -32.7  -12.7    14.3          0.0    1.1      1.5
Other                       188.8          -5   -31.4    5.6  -10.9   -1.8    26.7           0.3   14.5    15.1
1brch1nd1m  Imports  c.l.f.)  1188.5         -5.5   -7.3  -11.3  -11.8   12.5   - 0.3        -10.6    0.8      1.4
Food                         87.0         -21.2    2.7  -31.6   -64   22.8    24.6         -12.2    1.5      2.2
Petroleman                  354.0           1.4  -14.7   18.5  -17.8   -2.7   -14.0          0.0    0.9      1.3
Capital t oods              287.7         -14.8   -7.2  -14.6  -21.3   30.5    17.3          8.9    1.5      2.2
Other                       459.8         - 9.1  -12.9  -21.8   -2.5   13.3    -4.2        -10.6    0.5      0.6
PRICES
Export PrIce Index a/ C1974-100) -        154.0  248.6  319.4  380.9  379.1   354.3        431.6  1071.8  1390.8
hport Prlev Index (1974.100)    -         125.7  205.8  310.8  369.7  421.7   396.7        465.5  1201.2  1581.9
Te  n' Trade Index (1974-100)  -          122.5  120.8  102.8  103.0   89.9    89.3         92.7   89.2    87.9
Caupositlan of lirchIndle  Trade CI)             Average Annual Incress CZ)
(at current prices)                        (at constant 1974 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1981   1986   1990         1971-76 1976-41  198144    195-90
Exports                          1CO.O  100.0  1(1.0  100.0  100.0  ICO.O            -3.0    -0.9      -3.0        2.9
Deuxits/AImuin                   49.3   63.9   60.4   781    50.2   39.2           -2.5      5.3     -7.4       -60
Sugar/Bnanas                     31.8   14.5   21.6    5.2    9.9    7.4           -6.0   -13.7      -3.9        5.8
Other                           I.9   21.6  18O   16.7   39.9   53.4             -3.6    -9.7       3.2       14.9
bIports                          IOD1O   1000 O 10.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            -6.1    -L5        0.0      -2.0
Faod                             16.6   13.5   11.6    7.0    6.6    6.8           -7.2   -1O.S       4.1        0.1
Petroleum                         8.3    6.3   L9.2   33.5   30.7   29.4          -11.9    -3.9       -4.0      -1.0
lbchinmry and Equlpmnt           18.7   29.5   30.9   20.3   19.S   21.9           -7.9    -9.3       8.5       -5.0
Othr                             56.4   50.7   38.3   39.2   43.2   41.9           -1.7    -6.8        '.0      -0.8
a/ JS lndlesa                                                                                              February 1985



- 26 -
Aln I
hep a of 1
JAICA - M.ANC eF PAYISIIS, DTIU. CDITL A0M OIT
ImIlam of U1  at awrent pe INO
Astual                          Est.      Preojebd
1M    1977   1378    373   1910   ISI   132   103    lowi           1990
MAAE OF PAYISITS
Exports of OIMS                17.9  967.4 10.0 1165.2  361.7 1403.9 1234.3 125.0  1376.3   2129.4
Of which. Mrohandl f.ob.   656.4  750.6  794.5   147  967    975.4  761.5  657   617.7   117.2
bots of OiFM                 1123.5  922.5  104W.1 1220.6 1407.1 1737.3 163.3  158.6  1363.4   1343.6
Of whichs lMrctudl c.l.f.   907.9  75562  855.6  14.0 1159C6 1457.4 1375.1  1310.9  1060.7   130.
Net hcator Services            -74.0  -13.  -142.4 -167.2 -212.3 -154.5 -134.2 -139.0  -311.1   -344.0
Not Tranufers                   5.8   20.0   25.7   80.0   10.8  124.3  150.4  14.0   163.3    203L.
Current Account Selmncu         -38  -28.9   68  -1426 -166.9 -373.6 -3864   -6            -134.2     44.9
Prlivat Direct Investunt         -0.6   -7.0   -M8    -iMo4  27.6  -11.S  -15.8    m        N         n
WLT ansn (itl                    79.2   -5.9  176.9   71.1  207.4  240.2  446.0  321.0   140.0        0.0
Oter Capital I/                   11.3  -18.1  201-.  -4.2 -128.8   65.7   41.5 -312.1    65.2        30.1
Chae In Reserves                213.9   59.9  13D5   142.1   60.7   79.2  -6.3  279.7  -71.0    -75.0
Intewnatll Reerves Cnot)      -116.3 -176.2  -314.7 -456.8 -57.5  983  -515.0 -794.7   367.9   -67.9
EXTBWA CAPITAL NO DEST
WoaN Olburamnts               179.5   830   112.9  171.7  295.8  4489  6632   165605 350    450.0
Project Lan.                  31.2   26.6   42.6   32.0 - 47.8   632   34.7   37.0   100.0    150.
Special Financing              -     10.4  118.  125.S  1395  214.2  234.2  211.1   24.6          7.0
Other Official                73.0   71.0  -71.0   20.3  135.1   60.3   67.3   63.0    70.5       62.5
oerunt Gucrenteed             47.0   3LS   23    11.3   50.6   50.0   31.7   3J5         75.      86.5
Privete Direct (nt)           -O.S   -7.0  -2.7  -3.4  -11.0   -         r       n       no       -
Lines of Credit tnet)          -     11.3   33.6   11.5  -9.2   n         m nn      n    n u
Other c/                     2.8  -67.6  -67.7   -2.7  -57.0   41.2  275.3  176.0   34.1          S5.0
Official Debt Outstanding      831.8  926.2 1036.1  112.0 1313.6 1769.0 2259.0 2532.0  3412.0   3712.0
DObt Services Totel Service
Paynnt          102.6  159.1  144.6  165.S  177.6  300.4  320.6  472.9   723.9    850.0
Intxrest          54.2   66.0   62.2   97.9  t26.4  186.7  218.6  267.3   3589    4010
Psynnt as X of
Expwts           11.2   16.0   12.8   13.6   12.5   21.4   22.9   35.7   S.6    39.9
Aerage Intorest RNte on Nw
Loana CS)                      -      -      -      -       -      -      L6    8.7       9.0      9.0
Averagr Iturity of Now Loans
(y"er)                                                     -                I- 151   15.S    11.7  11.3
a/ Includes errors and aulsslone.
b/ PubiIC metr Iafl  only.
cl IncludeB refinanming flos.
February 1N5



- 27 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Baak Loans as of September 3U, 1984
--USA million---
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                            (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                bank  Undisbursed
21 loans fully disbursed Il                                435.6
1516    1978    Jamaica Public    Power                      M.0       .6
Service Co. Ltd.
1517    1978    Sugar Industry    Agriculture               18.0       1.8
Authority
1716    1979    Jamaica             Forestry                12.0       U.3
1740    1979    Jamaica            Highways                 16.0        .5
1978    1981    Jamaica             Exports Development    37.U        4.3
Fund
2U17    1981    Petroleum Co.       Offshore Petroleum       7.5       4.5
Exploration
2U70    19d2    Jamaica             Third Education          6.8       5.0
ZIUb    1982    Jamaica             Technical Assistance    6.1        1.6
21U7    198Z    Jamaica             Kingston Export Free   13.5       12.4
Zone
218d    198Z    Jamaica             Power                   3U.5      23.U
ZZ93    1983    Jamaica             Highway                 15.u      14.5
2294    1983    Jamaica             Industrial Credit       15.1      13.9
23XtJ'u/  i983    Jamaica           EDF Ili                 30.1      30.1
2389    1984    Jamaica             Urban Transport         16.U      16.0
Z414    1Y94    Jamaica             Export Crops            15.1      15.1
242    1984    Jamaica             Water Supply and         9.0       9.U
Sewerage T.A.
Rehabilitation
2423    1984                        Public Administration   4.5        4.5
Reform
Total (net cancellations)                      626.8
Of which has been repaid                         71.7
Total now outstanding                           55J.1
Amount sold                       1.6
Of which has been repaid          I.b             U.U
Total now held by bankL                        555.1
Total undisbursed                               157.1
1/  lacluding a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to che Jamaican
'Telephone Compaay and cancelled in the same year.
_/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
Annex II
2age 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Lnvestments as of September 3U, 1984
US4 million
Date        Borrower            Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-t4ix Ltd.    Pre-mix concrete       U.2        -      0.2
1969   Pegasus tiotel of
Jamaica Ltd.            Tourism                2.2      o.7      2.9
198U   West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.            Glass containers       2.3       -       2.3
1982   Jamaica Flour Mills      Food and food pro-
cessing               5.u       -       5.0
9.7      U.    U10.4
Leos cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments           2.5       -       z.5
Total commitmentsanow neld by IFC               7.2       0.7     7.9
Total Undisbursed                               0.1        -      0.1



- 29 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
JAMAICA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Loan Request Made to Bank        -   June, 1984
(b)  Preappraisal Mission             -   July/August, 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission                -   September/October, 1984
(d)  Negotiations                     -   February, 1985
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness  -   July, 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Prior to Loan Effectiveness:
(1) subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and JECIC
satisfactory to the Bank would be executed (para. 52);
(2) a coordinator and a consultant(s) with qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank would be hired by JECIC to assist in administering
TAFEX (para. 52);
(3) a subsidiary agreement between Government and PIOJ, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be executed (para. 67);
(4) a consultant(s) with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank would
be hired to assist PIOJ in the coordination of free-standing
technical assistance (para. 59);
(5)  agreed upon operating procedures for TAFEX would be approved by
JECIC's Board of Directors (para. 52); and
(6) agreed upon operating procedures for the management of TAL 2 would
be adopted by PIOJ (para. 59).



I         -.PAU~~U         ~A
Ass~~         ~     ~ AS    -                                 
lw                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
ioo     R -E    L  A 
R    L %       N                                                                            1
'NO
_:To E  l  I  ^8|A. E  T 14\  >  \                                         .
Elevations                                                C1     E                            I                                 A  R E       i
feet          m.tio. CEF  R                                                                                                C AR
2.904          9                                                                                                      ;00
2M954  900enr lBreork t ' - ~ LACK .RIV                                                                    k.i.
~- o8,00y   mongod  ,  450
AN    H   ~ fH                  1)
*         ISbrOtooAiprs'                                                                                                           rdPor
0         0                                            1Oepd
Average Annual Rainfall in nd'es                                                            .
Main areienal roods                                                                                      .
Romlwoys
4' MainPortsI
4. International Airports                                                                                                  *ockr PFnm
Regional Bouncdaries                                                                            ,.
Pbrish Boundaries
- - -   County Boundores                             a C                 10       IS
-   - -   International Boundaries             MTLES C       5       10      15
eKIOMETERS a-          1           20    27



____________________ ___________________ ___________________IBRD    18111
.. APRIL
USA
A 
4,
MARIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 5 .-- -                             A .9 J9 _~ ..
a. 4  JAMAICA. b~'FAIWFW    .WA
T-c  :.   o. ',
xO - -I,
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.
BPP"SH~~~~_ _B lv    _                                                                   J tb _           0
I~ ~~~~~F Royal_ 1 *r
BOT~~~_                                                    __         r     r     __          G       _
JAMAICAf_o^_ od*
a7                                     oo10'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.fff.M
!                                        _30



