Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. i2089
PRojECT COPLETIO  REPORT
JANMACA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(WAN 2507-aN)
JUNE 28, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12089
Type: PCR
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a resricted disribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performa   of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authorzatoj



LIST OF ACRONYMS
AJ                -      Air Jamaica
AJL               -      Aquaculture Jamaica Limited
ARP               -      Administrative Reform Program
ASAL              -      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BOJ               -      Bank of Jamaica
CAIS              -      Comparative Advantage and Incentives Study
CARICOM           -      Caribaean Common Market
CAST              -      College of Art, Science, and Technology
CET               -      CARICOM's Common External Tariff
CIS               -      Customs Information System
FIS               -      Financial Information System
FPMIP             -      Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
FSL               -      Fiscal Services Limited
GCT               -      Genera! Consumption Tax
GFS               -      Generalized Food Subsidies Program
GOJ               -      Govemment of Jamaica
HEART             -      Human Employment and Resource Trust
HRIS              -      Human Resources Information System
ID                -      Institutional Development
INTEX             -      Information Technology for Export Study
JAMPRO             -     Jamaican Modernization of Industry Program
JCTC               -     Jamaican Commodities Trading Company
JECIC             -      Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation Limited
JPUP              -      Jamaica Pre-Investment Program
JSE               -      Jamaican Stock Exchange
JTC               -      Jamaica Telephone Company
LATPS             -      Latin America Technical Department Public Sector Management
Division
MIS               -      Management Information System
MOF               -      Ministry of Finance
NIBJ              -      National Investment Bank of Jamaica
PAMCO             -      Project Analysis and Monitoring Company
PCR               -      Project Completion Report
PCU               -      Project Coordinating Unit
PESAL             -      Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
PJOJ              -      Private Sector Organization of Jamaica
PPAR              -      Project Performance Audit Report
PSIP              -      Public Sector Investment Program
SALs              -      Structural Adjustment Loans
SAP               -      Strucual Adjustnent Program
STATIN            -      Statistical Institute of Jamaica
TA                 -     Technical Assistance
TAFEX             -      Technical Assistance Fund for Exporters
TAL                -     Technical Assistance Loan
TFSAL II           -     Second Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment Loan
TOR               -      Terms of Reference
UWI               -      University of the West Indies



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wshington, D.C. 20
U.SA
Ollb. d DIrolr4mra
-pda &va1dlon
June 28, 1993
MEMORAUM TOY) 1E CUTMV  DI}E3=RS Amn TH3MSDN
SUBJEC=: Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Second
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2507-JM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Second Technal Assistance
Project Loan 2507-M) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Offie In hleu
of the usual Part II prepared by the Borrower, a separate document is appended. It is entitled
'Projest Completion Report" and was commbssioned by the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ).
Ihe PCR is of hi',h quality. It is comprehensive, thorough, analil, and balanced. It
provides insightful lessons of experence on technical assistance (TA) for public sactor management.
The project (TA 11) was largely successful m achievng its objectives of supporting
institutional development (ID) in seral entities and in financig important studies and other
acivities in direct support of compliance requirement of Bank SAL and SECAL   ti at
The PCR describes TA IIrs objectis as "clear, foused, and [of] limited scope*" The projectwas
nonetheless complex, with 13 components involving 26 separate activities utcies in multiple
public sector agencies. Annex I of the PCR provides an excellent assment of the objectves,
activities, costs, outcomes and liewly impacts of each of these components, nd how these varied,
if at all, from planned implementation.
-The PCR concludes that performance was satisfactory on 22 of the 26 activities and that
TA II played a crucial role in the Government's implementation of SAL m  and a series of
SECAWe  The overal outcome is therefore rated as satisfactory, with partial istitution
development impact The sustainability of the ID imprvements is somewhat uncertain given the
poor conditions of pay and employment in the civl service that continue to conn the publc
sector's capacity to recruit and retain .taified and motivated staf including those trained under
TA IL
An audit of the project is planned to confirm the resilience and ascertain the wider
applicability of the lessons of experience identified in this PCR.
Attachment
Iwft docuo eZ  a    a        c ld _t and my be usd by    cay i fpfi at d   d
mbf  y not owbc dbeddod vid* Wadd B4nk sl



FMR MM=CIL USE ONLY
aDN Zi-M
TABLlF O F CQHM
Pp No.
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUNM            ARY ........................... .. .    i
PARTI: PROJECT FROM THE BANK'SPELWECIVE
A.  Pre j  Id-Aft  ......... .. ....S ...................    1
B.  Bacgoznd  . .................... .................    1
C.  P      Objecd dDes               ................                        2
D.  PfojedDeXtdCpandSn 4
G.  Pioem                                                                   10
0.  Prjc  utinaiiy.... .   ..   .....      .     .   13
H, Book fnua** .                                                            14
L   Borower Perrian1..                  .*.1S....          .    .....   i
K.  Co=uWngSsiow&u                                                          15
L   Projectnx       _        andData  .                                     16
L LesosLAared .                                                             16
PR&BL: PROJECrREVIEWFROM THE BORROWE'S PERSPCTVE
PAIUl: STATISTICALINFOTRMAITON
1.  Rd.ad BookPrcXects .................................   19
3.  LoanDi*zurasms
C2 Poailmu tbe  ......... a.d A..... . .................  23
4.  Pr$ecP Fitaci   ........   .....             ....... ...   24
5.  Su zof Covueu    ...........,......................    25
6.  U    ofBank R es    .......................                             27
7.  Projec C4st Braon by Cwn.emt                                            28.....S.......S  So
Ths document has a ute distdbution and may be ud by  nonly in thepefmane
of their ocW dutie Is contents my    othewwi be dilo    tutWorn.



PFfle No.
&jX2g> SuSmmy of Beneficiaty Agncies, Actitie  and Outputs  .....* .... ......  29
PCGRsubnitted byPIOJ  ..................                ...........  51



1AMArA
aLAN 2507-JM
PREFACE
(i)         This is the Prqject Compleion Report (PCR) for the Second Technical
Assistae Project in Jamica (CAL D), for which Loan 2507-3M in the amount of US$9.0
milLion was approved on April 12, 1985. TIhe Loan was closed on October 31, 1991 (Me
original Loan closing date was Octobe 31, 1988). The Loan was fuly disbursed on
dmiary 29, 1992.
(ii)        Parts I and I of this PCR were prepared by the Public Sector Management
Division of the IAC Technical Deprmt (LATPS) with the colaborion of LA3C2 on
that porin of the project (Adm       Reform Progam Component) managed and
supevised by them. This report is based upon an examnation of Appraisal Reports, Loa
Agrement. Project Agrments and Amendmets, Superion Reports, Project
Correspondence Files, Financial S_ttemets, and inlte w  in Wasngton. In addition, the
rport benefitted from a rview of maters from sveria consultant reports for the ARP I
(2423-JM) (Abramson, 1988; Glessner, 1987; Mwckinsn, 1987; Kivg, 1988; Hashim,
1988). Finay, the report benefitted from an examintion of the PCR and the Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for Loan 2106-JM (Technical Assistance Lon ), the
PPAR for Strucal Adjustment Loans I-M (2105-3M, 2315-3M and 2478-3M), and from
draft and completed vions of rlated Sectof Adjustment Loan PCRs for Loans 2848-3M
TFSAL, 2849-3M PESAL, and 3174-3M ASAL. The Planning Intitute of Jamaica (PIQI)
has submitted the attached report in lieu of the usa Part II.



SE3COND ICM9AL    .   LQANN
OaNm 2S07-AJS
EVALtUATION SURMY
Introduction
1.   The Second Technical Asdstance Project (TAL II) was conceived as a mea  to
continue efforts begun under T.AL I (2106-M  to recoup badly deteriorated admiistraive
capabilities and to deepe insttutinal support for the Structr Adjustment Program. TAPL
H was directed toward: (a) continued support for the stucturl (and later sectorl) adjustnent
progam; (b) support of export development; (c) piority projcts in the areas of human
resource development and puaton. The Project corrcy idetfied the single most
serious obstacle to timely project execution and susinabilit as the lack of sdIlled personnel
in the public sector, the Loan was an attempt to address this problem in part through the
provion of technical assstance and an even graer focus on institution-buildig than in the
pas. It was intended that this focus complement the ongoing Adm istrtve Reform Project
(ARP: Loan 2423-JM) appwved May 22, 1924 for US$4.5 million.
Dbiectives
2.   The project was originally inteded to provide crtidal tecical asstance (TA) to
ihelp the Government implement, monitor and sutain its structural adjustment effort as
suported by the Bank under a series of SALs. TAL II was designed to male direct
contributions to the achievement of these strucural adjustment goals by providing
consultants, taining and equipment in suport of: (a) inst         and improved
fiscal performance of key public-sector entties; (b) rmio of ==rs and (c) how
These objeciv  prented clea, focused, and limited scope for the
conduct of the project. In addition, as the result of a mJor amendment to the Loan
Agreement in 1987, USS 3.3 milLion in funds originally allocated to the Technical Assistance
Fund for Expors (TAFEX) were realocated to support swveral activities, including support
for the Public Entprise and Trade and Finance SECALs, the prepaation of an Agltural
SECAL, assstance to the Modenmizon of Industry Program (JAMPRO), assia    to the
Revenue Board in the implmentation of and training for the Generl Consmption Tax, and
fther aistace to the ARP. While the allocation of $1.9 million for inteim financing
under the ARP was oiginally intended for the illaton of computerized financial and
human resource MIS and preaation of ARP H, subsequent decions by the Bank, and
agreed to by the G01, led to a refocusing of the use of these fumds for the redesign of the
financial nagement inorma    sytem and bugeng tems to be used, and to be
finnoced by what becam  the Financial and Progam Man  t Improvement Project
(PPMEP:Lan 3386-) appwved in June 1991.



3.    Most of TAL IU's 26 activities were implemented successfuly in accordance with
their objectives. The project directly supported measures requred in connection with SAL
m, the Trade and Finance Sectr Adjustmt Opaions I and El, the Public Enterprise and
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operatons and other areas of the Government's adjustment
program. The least successful activities wee the TAFEX, covered in pam 4 below, and the
Customs Information System (CIS), which fell vctim to lack of inter-agency coordination.
Annex I provides details of objectives, acvities, cost, and outcome of each acdvity.
4.    The TAL U was implemented over a six year peiod (from effctdveness in September
1985 to loan closing in October 1991), substantially longer than the original throe year peiod
orginally envisaged. Three extensions were agreed to over the life of the loan (July 1988,
October 1989, and April 1991). Much of the reason for this extended period of
imPlemenion is the reallocation of funds origimally intended to support the TAFEX to
subsequent support for the sectoral adjustment pograms and the ARP. The President's
Report correy noted that "the potential demand for the resources to be provided under the
reavely novel TAFEX is uncertain," and provided for formal review of the progress of the
activities under TAFEX. By 1987 it became clear that demand for the TAFEX had been
oversimate. While the TAFEX was pehaps the single largest disapoinment under the
Loan, the reallocation of its $3.6 miion afforded an oppottunity to provide further support
to Jamaica's adjustment efort Eady regdton of the lack of productivity in this
component resulted in altenatives of funds.
S.   In the case of the reallocadon of funds to interim ficing of the ARP and
prearaon of the follow-on project, there were substantial delays and a significant alterion
in the pmpose of the use of funds The initial i     for the use of the realocated funds was:
(1) to complete the insrion of a  rfimne budgetig stem in th remaning
Government entities; (2) to instal a compiuteried financial MIS and human resource MIS
based in part on the new budge  systm; and (3) to prepre a Second Adminis ve
Reform Project along the les of the originl prject. However, Bank missions between
December 199i and June 1988 easssed the oiinal projct and the directon of the
proposed project, and eom   d on tehnical grounds hat, rather than proceed with
items (1) and (2), th emphasis be placed on the preprion of a fincial and progam
management Improvement proct. The new focus was on reformed ystems in the Ministry
of Fnace and line nmni, a new compszd MIS to spport this and an a ed
human rsurc  MIS, and ma_agemt Improvements wich included civil service reforms
and the eoraiat  of mi        through a corporae ptang pros. Thus, installation
of the computezed MIS was not carrd out and most of the remning resources were
u    d for ostai  to rdesig te fnncil stem and th computer needs for
financidal m m t. This sbift in project purpose resulted in  bst     implmentation
ddayL In additio, the derm tion to edesign the purpose of inteim finacing led to
intensive efforts to p e the new prqect ov  the next two and one half yea, such that



in
"pe-appraiaw for die Financial and Progrm     Magement Inrovement Proect (3386&JM
in 1988-1991 involved some 106 staff weeks.
6.   It is difficult to make short term jvd;ements on the longer term sutinailit of
efforts aimed at stng  the institutional envimet of reform. In some cases,
activities served   t tem purposes without intending to effectut longer term insDtutional
support. Thesc were clearly sucessful in achieving their short-term goals. Others have a
fair chance of success in the near future wit? confirmed help from other donors. In still
others, the potential for susaining results .naybe contingent upon improving pay and
employment conditions in Jamaica. This may be the single most important lesson to be
derived fom the project: without substantial modification of the conditions of pay and
employment, the su   ity of institutional effors  may be at risk. Clear progress in
strengthenig STATIN and PIOJ, for example, will require substantial alterations in incentive
systems for pasonnel.
7.    Simily, the high use of consultants during the early years of the ARP, and the
subsquent shift to whole new sets of (primarily inatina) consltancies with the use of
TAL H financing, resulted in substantial delays and potential saility problems in that
portion of the use of Loan proceeds. Finally, the Bank's shift in the underlying basis for
ARP I from an integrted            refm project to a technical asssnc project for
financial management and a performance oriented management system occurred during
ubmulent times both for the GOJ (chnge of government) and the Bank (reation  d a
shift ir. project spervion of TAL 1). One result would seem to have been discontinuity in
the project and a need to reestablish Bank-Govenment eltions and GOJ commitment to the
ARP, following the change of govemment.
Findings and      Leamred
8.    Sevrsal key lesons emerge from the project. EMM when TALA  e linked to
suotg  coaitions of adjustment opeatons it is critical that pe    indicators be
included in SAJSECAL design. Here, the several comnts of the TAL wer specifically
linked to ononaes under the SALs in an effort to assu  effctdve compliance, yet the
SAL documetation did not make expcit the  link, either in desig, supervison, or PCR
report. SMd, efforts at institona devel  ent in the public setor that do not
rcognie the need to sengthen the human r  =oue dime     for the loWer team may not
be sutanable. OneAseious conern for t        ilit of efft under this project (as
well as others in Jamaica) are the poor conditions of pay and employment that cotinue to
plague the public sector's capacity to recruit and rean  qualified and moivated staff.  d,
computer systm  should be tested immdely on a pilot basi in a worlkng environment
before proceeig to software completion for the full army of systems. The Customs



iv
Infomation System (CIS) experience inicaes the need for pilot tetng and cvaluadon.
Eh , -ALAso dsod not be overy ambitious, particularly in tuulent  m t      and
political envioments. Te poct design and implemntion gained valuAble insight from
the shortcomings of the earlier TAL I in providing fewer, more focussed, and clady
directed components involving fewer agencies to support the SAP. The decision to preare
an interim evaluation under TAL I (Sunshine Report) proved effectve in pwviding the design
of TAL I with clear lessons on the need to focus activities and to link them to the SAP.
EiMh. while some flexibility in the use of project funds is appropriate, the existence of large
amounts of unallocated funds nay lad to        project advities, difficulties in
monitoring, and, in the case of TAL II, delays in implementation. Neverthes, wiiinge
to alter the course of ImplementAtion (i.e. reallocated TAFEX funds), proved very positive in
permitng prtject activities to resond to ongoing reforms. Sigh, the proce  of transition
from deign to implementation can be facilitated by careful front-end project preparation
work. In this case, the prpaton of an Operting Manual for the project, the efforts to
clarify the respective mles of the PCU, beneficiary agencies, and the Bank, and clear rules
en procument, contag, and disbursement impved project implemcntation. In
addition, the transfer of funds from the TAFEX to be used in support of continued activities
under the ARP and to assure a unoo thnsition to the new FPMIL Project (3386-JM  was
intended to assure this font-cad prpaion. Howeer, substantial alteratikm of the purpoe
for the use of these funds and mid-couse redesign of the interim financing reuted in
significant delays in the inteim period and a less-than-smooth transition.



ERQmQM LKE1QNRT
JAMA,CA
OaN= 2507-M
IART I - PROMECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSP
A.   PjectW   Ideydi
Name        : Second Technical Assistance Project UAL II)
Loan Number: 2507-JM
RVP Unit   : lain Amerca and Caribbean Region
country     : lamaica
Sector       Technical Assistance
B.  ak
1.   Jamaica began the 1970s with brisk econic performance, a trend that was abrpty
rvesed in the post-1973 period. Significant decines in virtally aU ewnomic ndators
chrceie the remainder of the decade; the exceptions were rapid inreass in curent
expenditures as a rest of decreasing private sector confidence and the growth of
Govemment expenditures. As a result of Goverment's    n   y  poLcies for the public
sedtor during the 1970s, fiscal  formance was weak over the perod. Ihe Central
Government current account, which had regisred a suplus of 6% of GDP in 1974/75,
showed a deicit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trnd wbich was reflected in
inreased overal deficits. Rdlectg this - and diing poducon for eort, partcualy
in bait/aluina mana , sugar and bananas - the balance of payments was under
continuous pressure. Many q  d  pesons In the civil service left thir posts for more
lucadw jobs in h private sector and abroad. Emigration of siled persons accelerated.
After a deep and sustained contracton in the 1970s, the economy of Jamaica by the early
1980s moved into a period of stagnaton, with mounting diffilties in serviing extena
debt  Seiou sucual defi¢cies I the economy, impeded the uhlzaton of the country's
producive capacty and hiered job crat.
2.    The Government which came to power in October 1980 was faced with cble
economic problm, but was committed to a refom of past econo   polcies, and to
cans deigned to rre the economic declie of the 1970s. It saw the prate sedor as
the main engine of economic growth, and cosequently sought a reducdon in te role of te
public sector, throtgh dergultion and divesment of governmnt-owned asets. The
dedopment of exports, partdculay outside CARICOM, was considered the main impets



-2 -
for economic recovery. The Govenment also sought to improve the overall investment
climate, in parcular to atrct forign private invement in sectos with potential for
export. The Govannwnt embarked on a stuctul adjusment program (SAP) in 1981; hie
Bank suppored this progran with three stuur adjusment loans (SALs) in FY82
(US$76.2 million), FY83 (US$60.2 million), and FY8S (US$55.0 miUlion).
3.   The Bank made intensive efforts to assist the country resucture its economy in order
to mabo it snore producdve and competitive. The first SAL included measures inntded to
improve balance of payments management, economic rformance in industry and
agriculture, and to strgten both public and private savings and investment. SALs U and
m, approved in June 1983 and November 1984, covered the same policy ateas, but with the
additon of acdon prorams in the fields of energy and public admililatinon. The technical
assstance requirement of the structual adjustment prgram (espcialy supported under
SALs I and II) were met through a US$6.1 million Technical Assisance Loan (TAL I, 2106-
3M).
C. Pmet WeivObes and aDonif
4.   The Second Technical Assnce Loan (TAL UI), aved by the Board in March,
1985, was intended to continue the efforts of TAL I in providing critical TA to hep the
Government implement, montor and sstan its structural adjustmet eot as suppord by
the Bank under a sries of SAL  The President's Report for TAL I notes that fiture Bank
lending was likey to be directed towards: (a) continued spport for the sructr adjustment
progrm; (b) proects in   t  of export development; (c) prioity projects in the aeas of
human resoce devepment  d popaon; and (d) prxects aimed at rehabili  and
maintenane. TAL U suppored the first th  of th   ara eplicitly. In a major
amendmet in 1987 that obiojec   was expanded to include the sector adjustment progams
(SECALs). The Prsdnt's Report corcdy noted that the sigl most serou obstcle to
imely project executon and s a         was the lack of silled peronnd in the public
seotor, and that the Bank was atempting to addrss ths prblem in large measure though
the Public AdminIstrati  Reform Prject (ARP) (2423-3W  and in part rugh the prvision
of technical as ce and an  en greter fo    on institution-buiding tan in the pat
5.   The pincipal goals of die strucur adjustmen progm  (SAP) included: (a) incred
domestic s   s through improved tax-revenue and pubLc ent e renue genatio and
reduced Goverment ep      r;   ) an improved balnce of payments through expanion
of exports; (c) nbl on and d ment of human rouces and (d) ixnr d
instituion capacity, in patcular for intuions involved in the exen of, or imortnt
to, the  uctrl adjustment effort
6.   TAL U was desgqed to make direct contrbudons to the acht of thae
stru a adjustment goals by provn conslts, taining and eqpmnt i upport of:
(a)                     and impred fidal performce of key pubLi-so  ent ite;



- 3 -
(b)         Of<h and () hman                            These objectives, as
defined in the President's R t, presented clear, foused, and limited scope for the conduct
of the project
7.    The Annex to this report provides a deailed descripdon of each of the activities
financed under TAL II and its outcome. The project, as originally designed, conisted of TA
for:
a.    Insional Development (S 3.140,000!. The project's institutional
development (ID) objecives were: () to mpve and sustain the performancm
of key public-sector entites earmarkod for attendon under the SAP, especially
with rgrd to better fiscal performance; and (ii) to help improve the
Government's ability to coordina and adminster etnally-financed TA.
The TA was intended to address two ID needs: strengthening staff capbiities
through taining and countepart relat0-ionips with the consultants; and
strengtheing managerial and opetdonal stems through   anions and
simplificati. Entities and  tvities trgeted for asdsia    included: ft
Ebaa Insft   of I=       1pIn the Revenue Services; h Suitc
had= UtO; =    J       andthNa"Ivsmn  l
b.    Ert Promotion (S 3,20.000). Complem   the ID component, a major
thust of the SAP and TAL I was promotion of the expasion of non-
CARICOM eoWrts. TAL II initially included two export-promton activities:
(i) a                   an_m dxa g=d= h   to be camred out by the PIO!
to examine the impac of the existing Jamaican and CARICOM incendtves
system on productive activities in Jamaica (see par 28 for results); and (A) the
esalishment of a    t ehias sistance fund for v=   Ap=    in the
Jamaica Export Crodit and lnnce Copoaden aENC, including fiinang
of consltant suprt for the eslishment and   m   _  of the Fun4.
Funds we  intended to make US dollar d aw   d subloans to exporters on
favoable tm  for the provision of consulting services;
c.            ResormcesDO      mnt (I 4ML-.). IThe proct origdnally financed
as_since in two areas: (I) strpegthening of the Manpower Division of the
PlOy in its work of identifying ways of mnozing, ting and employing
buman reources thro   the preparon of a      n       and the ngoing
mnitoring of the country's situion in regard to employment and skl
development; and (H) SUOtac    th   nr      odn        to strengthen
management of the educatl sysem by asesing the audit and accoutig
capabilities of local school memt;
d.               Acitivends Mn      The loan ageement also inuded a general
category of additional udi, selectve tnig and other tnical assa
as required to foster the objectives of the Project; and



-4-
e.                  =.0         For existing componmts.
8.   The human resource and institutional development activities, ((a) and (c) above) were
implemented larey as foreen in the President's Report. However, the USS 3.3 mMilion
originally allocated to the TAFEX were reallocated due to lack of demand for the subloans
(see pa. 22). The realocatd funds supported the Public Enterprise and Trade and Finance
SECALS, preparation of an Agricultural SECAL, asdstance to the Modenizon of Industry
Progam (JAMPRO), assistance to the Revenue Board in the implementation of and training
for the Genea  Consumption Tax, and aistance to the ARP for insalation of a
computerized management infrmation system (MIS) and prparaton of a follow-up
opvrton (3386JM.
9.    With respect to the latter, however, a assssment by Bank personnel between
December 1987 and June 1988, as well as the decision to transfer supervison of the ARP
portion of TAL II a ivity from LATPS to LA3C2, led to a redefiniton of the use of funds
for interim financing of the ARP. Concern for the sodness of the approach to budget
systems and th implemention plans for installation of computer systes resulted in
decisions to change the entire approach to Bank support for ARP to a program of technical
assistce to support financial management systems deveopment and a corporate planning
and management improvement progam. This sift in objectives resulted in substantial delay,
a change in long-term consultants for the progam, and a le than clear commitment on the
part of the 001 to the new emphses. Delays continued for almost two years as the TAL II
fiuding became a means for an exened prepaisal for the follow-on projecL
D.     ect Dodo andgatia
10.  The depn of TAL H was well-ooncedved in  re measure bocaue of dirct linkages
of the proct to the tructura and sector adjusent prom. TA was, for tne most part,
tgted eith  for institia reenforcemnt or to finance studies on which subsequent
policies wer based. In addition, in an effort to frh   smooth the way from design to
implementation, an Opertn Manual for the proect was prpared, which was helpful in
claifying the respectve roles of the c   agency (PIO), the beneficiary agencia,
and the Bank, and provided clear implementation agemets and lines of resonsilit
regarding couamoa, pacueent ad disbursement.
11.   An extenive mid-term rview of TAL I in 1983 (caried out by the firm of Russell
Sunshine Assoias under contact to the Bank) provided many valuable insights for the
dein of TAL I. It was thought that an indqepnt review by an institndevelpment
spcalt  would benefit both the lBak and the Borower. This was the firt such evaluation
of a TAL caried out with te dspodf objcdve of provid   the bais for mid-course
crctio  and praing a somund basis for design and    etaton impo ents in a
ccesr opetn. In accornce with the findings of   review, TAL II was degnd
with fewer activities than TAL I, and those activities deady and dircdy uppored the SAP.



WYith fewer components, the av e cost of TAL I atvities was coniderably larger than
under TAL I. Thirteen components with 26 acdvltie/cosultancies were included in TAL II,
as compared with some 52 activities under TAL I. The PIO  was in a beter position to
administer a smaller number of arge contacts and, therefore, did not require the
procurement/corntracdng assistance provided by UNDP's Office for Project Services under
TAL I.
12.   The project's explicit focus on ID also stood in contast to many of the TA activities
financed under TAL I. The earlier loan intentionally had D as only a secondary objective.
TAL I was conceived and designed to funish a barge number of emergency injections* of
TA experdse - short-term studies, public-enterpfise management audits, etc. - to help the
Government implement its strucual adjustment prgwam. While that TA stategy was a
reasonable response to the prevailing crisis, the TA desip lesson confirmed by the TAL I
experience was that a host insitto must absorb and WMap the e ise if the imat of the
TA is to survive the consula=t's depre.  Care was taben, herefore, in designing TAL
II's ID component to build in mechanisms to sustain the institudol tansforaon. These
included exteive exchanges with prospective TAL II host agencies on lessons learned from
TAL I, including the need to intview candidates before hiring them as consultants; the need
to upport consultants with adequate setling-in, orientation assistance, and lgistc  s;
and the need for consultants' terms of reference (TOR) to ss transfer of tchnical
experts to counterparts as well as formal training, and cleary disnguish betwoen line and
advisory functions. The aforementioned olions with host agenies also led to a greater
sense of commitment and ownersip of TAL II activities than TAL I.
13.   Unlike TAL I, many TAL U activides wer in dirct support of compliance
requimets of SAL and SECAL conditionalitis. In a number of cases, the       to
srgthen the institutional bas for SAL c          and goals is cear. For example,
support for taining and equipment for the GCr was diroctly reated to tax rforms initiated
under TFSAL I and II aimed at providn a moden and comprehensive rsysem of axing
goods and svices on an ad valorem basis, with full x credit proviion for expot. The
prepartion of a series of woring papes on agriclua policy direcay supored the
preari  of the ASAL (3174-3M). An Export Intiv  and Comarat  Advantage
Study (CAIS) was completed and TA was prvided to esablish the TAPEX, both SAL m
second tranche codioaio e  Other actvities in beeping with the human resources
development objecdve of the TAL, upported lIg opeaions        not in direct
fulfillment of SAL c,  including financial                 ipn pt  for the Ministry
of Education (¢299-3M,  ds and preadon work for the Socidal Sector Delopment
Opeaton (Food Socurity Study and dt  Social Well-Being P m in prpaion for 3111-
3M).
14.   The Proect Completion Report (PCR) for TAL I (dated June 30, 1989) concluded
that the ceble flexibility in the use of un_aocatd ad ealocatd funds led to approv
of activis not antirely in leeping with  e proects objecdve. TAL 1I acvites wer
mainly Himied to the projets SAP rented objectivs w n l   co      _ mponen  ad few



-6 -
executing entida. In additon, both the Borrower and the Bank concluded that TAL I had
financed studies that could have been carried out by the Bank as part of the ESW or appLied
resech. This was avoided in TAL II because of its clearer focus. Most TAL II
components also benefited from closer collaboration of projects staff (SODs) than TAL I
during design and implementation.
15. In 1987 the TAFEX was cancelled and $3.3 million was reallocated to support a
number of adjustment reated opertons. Particular attention was placed on bridge financing
betwen compeon of ARP I and effectiveness of a second Aminhst   Refonrmhect.
Under the existing ARP I, the closing of activities was to occur in June, 1988, while some
activities deemed desirable of continuity would remain unfunded beyond that date. In
addition, preparation for appraisal for a second ARP prqject foresaw the likelihood of
funding needs to assure continuity in cntical areas prior to approval of a new project. The
initial decisions as to the use of these funds called for the funding of the insllation of two
computerized mgangement infonnation systems to carry forward fte modIe rizton and
restcuring of the Pinancial Management System and the Human Resoure Management
System Informaton. Approximately $1.3 million was to procure and insll the FMIS and
HRMIS systms, and $600,000 was to support the preparation of ARP II. However,
substantial alteron in the intended use of these funds occutred as the result of supervision
missions in Deember, 1987 and May 1988. As a result of these two missions, a dramatic
shift occuned in the Bank peeption of how funds for the Administrative Refbrm
Pgamnume ought to be utlized. While seveal  aluations and progress rep    on the A" I
(Ganr, 1987; Abramson, 1988; MacKinson, 1988) uge positive progrs in achving
refom goals, an alterave set of Bank evaluations (Xivang, 1988) and miion BTORs in
late-1987 and ealy 1988 (Ono, 1987 and 1988 BTORs and Aide-Memoi) suggested a much
less positive peformance of ARP I. In particular, Bank criticisms focused on the ovely
ambitious agenda of ARP I (resulting in the failure to complete key rerms needed), an Ad
m approach to assistan  by consultants to individual endties based on the percepton of the
libhood of introducing changs ra   than a master plan, the   p    ss of the
budgeting and financial management program that was being imp ted under the project
at the time, thee            of the sategy fr om      aon, and the need to rfos
attention on key mement functons, espcally those rated to intgrted financial
ngemnt Systems.
16.   With regrd to the performance budgetng system as proposed and in the prooes of
implementatio, the Bank revi    from 1988 onwards prferred the judgement that these
were thnically incomplet and           for Jamaican c, pa lly with
the absence of appropriat performm  inicato  and the failure to link budget
classifictions to a functional basis that would inom budset accountg, and at needs.
With rerd to the financial      t system more broadly, the argument was ftat there
was an absence of an intgrated approach wich could be subjocted to  efive computezd
Iegration. Finally, t  Bank pXe  ostonggested a cla  it away from use of funds for the
human resource            dimension erier cont led for the usw of funds. Ihe end
rsult of thee    ged pewstives within the Bank led to an _ateaion in the   roach to



-7-
the use of funds, non-continuation of the extant ARP advisory team, and a more focused use
of interim financing and prepaton for a financial maagement project. Some $700,000
was to be reoriented to support these new consultancies, $500,000 for assuring continuity in
computerizing line ministerial links, and the remaining $700,000 for the design of the
financial management system to be implemented under the proposed Financial Management
Program loan. While this shift in design may have been waranted from a technical
perspective, the shift to an almost exclusive focus on consultancies for technical assistance
financial management and computer2ation led to significant fnction in Bank/GOJ relations
and substantial delays in project implementation. The earlier goals of instalion of the
computerized systems in line with existing implementation plans and in accordance with the
effrt to alter the maining 20 budget entities to a performance budgeting system were
abandoned.
E.    &     Impleimentation
17.   The TAL II was implemented over a six year period (from loan effectiveness in
September 1985 to loan closing in October 1991), substantially longer than the original ee
year period. Three extensions were approved over the life of the loan (July 1988, October
1989, and April 1991). Anner I provides details on the objectives, activities, costs,
outcome, and impact (where known) of each of the 13 components, and how these varied, if
at all, from planned implementation. Bdow is a list of activities implemented under TAL II
and their relationship to the SAL/SAP/SBCAL program.
18.  TAL II activities 6rectly suppordng SALs/SECALs incuigi
Eiort Incentives andaCoive Advantage Study fCAIS=). Completed a study on
incentives to economic activities and on the comparative advantage of exporters in
flfillment of SAL m (2478-JM) second tranche conditionality.
General Consumpi on Tax (=CT) Training and Egcipment. Assisted in the
itoduction of the GCT as part of tax refrms su:ppted under sevel adjustment
operatis, including TFSAL I (2848-JM) and TPSAL 11 (3303-3M).
ManageriaL Financial and Technical Assiance to Air Jamaica. Identified specific
actions necessary to achieve fiancal targets established under SAL m.
Public Sector Inves=nent E==g am Assistance RSIP). SAL I second tranche release
was conditioned on preparation of a three-year invesment program and the institution
of a quarterly reportng system aimed at improving tracking the physical and financial
progres of investment projects. Tbis activity was supported under TAL I and
taining of line agency staff -ontinued under TAL II.



-8-
_ Assistance d fr _ M               A  -    tEstablished te TAFEX in
fufilment of a condition of SAL IMl second tranche releas. Once established, the
Fund never got off the ground.
AdmniWstrative Refom  rO=aMfARPMP1 ancad Pmram   aaeen
ImxQm) n. Financed the services of a senior management adviser to the ARP in
fulfillment of SAL m second tranche conditionality, which required progress in
carrying out the borrowers administrative reform program.
19.  TAL I1 activities directly supporting SALs/SECALs mdnsitutiona
strnglong:
ra tf the Agculral Sector Ajuent Ln.  Prepared working papers on
policy area such as agricultural pricing and ru  credit policies requird for the
ASAL (3174-JM).
IdWhM and Tariff Structure Stu. Provided a plan of action for a revised taiff
strucure as required prior to second tranche release of the PESAL (2849-JM).
Establishment of a Unit in the NIB to Divest Public Enterrises. Release of the
second tranche of the PESAL (2849-3M) was coditoned on atsfatory pgress in
achievement of the Government's divestment progm  for FY87/88. Wbile lth£lt
was never 1 ;WIdMd, the TAL finced consultant worked closly with the NIBJ in
privatzing or    ucturing major Public Enterprises in fufillmt of second tranche
condionality.
bnetr of A s    Liabilities of Public Ent_re. Completed sa ctily the
inventory as required for second tranche releae of the PESAL (2849-3M.
Food .aalft  59. Reviwed the Jamaica Commodity hding Company's (JC`C).
Pricing Policy as required for second tne  relea  of the PESAL.
20.  TAL U activites which did no dicly sAU or SECMAs but which
suppoed the Govenmment's SAP:
Cost Seof fi   u          ng Sector anStudi o             g    es.
Created a daa base which pemts analysis of the impact of tarff refoms and
changes in fiscal and monetary policy on sdected key manufctin  sectors in
keeping with recommedations of the CAIS; aimed to reduce marbet risk for
Jamaic commodty produces and taders thereby impoving the business climate for
the privae sector.
Mlanzwcr1Iunina..anidat A~saisM . Identfied  manpower gaps, espiy
those reulting from  e r    g  of the economy, and recommended



-9-
corresponding adjustments to curricula to training institutions. Provided a framework
for analyzing employment implications of proposed legisladon and policies.
_       __mcial Mmagm= Assistance to the    _     .ga of Education, Asessed audit and
accounting capabilities of local school boards complementary to and in line with
agency rstrucuring and financial reform begun under the Administrative Refonn
Program Project (ARP) (2324-3M.
Assistance to the Statistical Institut of Jamaica (STATIN). Developed better and
more timely data that could be directly used in improving national accounts estimates
and other statistical infomation required to inform the SAP.
Money Demand and Supnly Study. Developed an econometric model to strengthen
BOJ's capacity to forecast and project money demand.
Customns Infonnation System (S). Strengthen revenue systems was a priority area
within the structural adjustment program.
Modemizao of Industr Prozm aABOUm Assisted manuuers to become
competivve under the low tariff regime supported under seveal Bank adjustment
opertions by improving efficiency of production and markebility in several
manufacturing subsectors.
Promotion of the Infomation Prooessing knduW. Stimulated and facilitated new
employment and foreign exchange earning oppotunities and development of non-
traditional industies.
21.  In addition to the above acdvities, TAL IH also included advisconsultants for
Technical Cooperdon Management (for which UNDP grant funds were later substituted);
onsultanies to NIBJ to improve production and markting in several state-owned
companies; a report on the ran  of beneficiaries under various social sctor programs which
helped inform the Social Sector Development Operation (3111-3M); a review of the extension
and research systems for small farmers implemented by PAO; and a study of the feasibility
of convertng the preent manual system of the Jamaica Stock Exchange to a computer driven
(orgaly part of TFSAL H conditionaity, but dropped before TFSAL II was appowved).
The PI0 rquested TAL financng for this activity in keepng with the Borrower's Private
Sector Development orientation.
22. The most striking variance between planned and actual prqject implementation
oocurred with respect to the TAPEX ($3.6 million). The President's Report orrectly noted
that "the potential demand for the resources to be provided under the reatively novel
TAFEX is uncertain," and provided for formal review of the prgre  of the activities under
TAPEX. By 1987 it became clear that demand for the TAPEX had been overestmated.
Only $270,000 was disbursed for TA to establish the TAFEX. No subloans to exoers



- 10-
were made. Several Bank missions to Jamaica in 1986 and 1987 concluded that the lack of
demand for the remining $3.3 million was due largely to the availability of similar credit
facilities. (see para. 25). The Government concurred and requested that the TAFEX funds
be reallocated for other pnonty asstance. More extensive consultions with other donors
at the design stage might have avoided inclusion of the TAFEX in the TAL in the first place.
23. The proposal to amnnd the loan submitted to the Bank's Board on October 29, 1987
noted that the reallocated TAFEX funds would be used to support five adjusmuent related
operations:
*    consultant services needed to assist in fulfillment of conditions of tanche
release of the then recently approved Public Entere (2849-M) and Trade
and Finance (2848-3M  Adjustnent lhans;
*    diagnostic work required for the prepation of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment loan (3174-M), which was an integral part of the Govenment's
structual adjustment program;
*     funding to install computerize financial and human resource systes desged
under the Public Administratioc Refbrm Program Project (ARP) (2423-4W;
and
*     consulting sevic  required to prepare a follow-up ARP operation (see paras
15 and 16 above).
24.  The Preident's Report identified the main project da as: (i) the degree of skill
taser achieved from consultants to local professional counte   may not be wholly
adequate to sustain instituiol deveopment; (ii) managnt problems expeiened under
TAL I would pest; and (id) the demand for resources to be provided under the TAFEX
was uncertain. Skls were adequately tnsfered in most cases (e.g., STATII, JAMPRO,
Air Jamaica), however, as inicated in pam 25 below, the main tat to ssinbilit is
civil service pay and employment policis. As indicated in paras. 11-14, The PIO was able
to manage beter TAL II than TAL I due to modifico  in the proect design. Finally the
risks assoated with the TAFEX had acually been un, as per pamr 22.
P.   ftWet Results
25.   While it is difficult to offer a single judgement on the succ  of some 26 differeat
acdvides completed under TAL II, with four epions (TAFEX and Customs nomation
Service components, and in leser tems, the Money Demand ad Supply consultancy and the
institutional   etenng of the NIB) most of the activities idther s ded in aceving
their immediate objecdtvs or the work completed has a fair chance of doing w in the nea
futu  (eg. Ministry of Education, PSIP, and PI0J's TA Coonation). TAL II played a



- 11 -
cmcial rie in the Goverment's implementation of SAL m and a sris of SECALs. It also
laid the ground work for the FPMIL and prvided importnt background inforation for the
Socdal Sector Development Project. Annex 1 provides a detaled summary of the activities
conducted under the loan and their results. The most pervasive problem in sustining these
reslts, however, is pay and employment policies of central government which may be
inadequate to retin staff trained with TAL funds. As indicated in para. 4, the ARP
supported by the Bank was to have addressed this problem. However, the successor
operadon to the ARP, the Financial and Program Managenent Improvement Loan (3386-JW
de-emphasizes civil service reform.
26.   Among the activities under the loan that did not yield positive results, TAEX is the
most notable. The innovative effort to create a mechanism to support Jamaican exporters
through technical assistance did not materia ize, a result of the availability of alternative
credit facilities with more favorable terms (paias. 22). While the TAFEX was perhaps the
single largest dsappointment, the realocation of its $3.6 milion afforded an opportunity to
provide further support to Jamaica's adjustnent effort. Early recognition of the lack of
productivity in this component resulted in effective alternatve uses of funds.
27.   Assistance developing a Custms Information Sysem (CIS) was also disappointng.
TAL II originally intended to finance consultants, trinng equipment and overseas courses,
which would assist aU Jamaican Revenue Services (customs and excise, income tax, and
inland revue collectors), as part of priority areas within the stuctural adjustment program,
to strengthen revenue systems. The objective was to incre  revenue, expedite clearance of
legitimate imports and reduce competition from illicit imports. While the need for Customs
reform was clearly understood, the diagnosis of the existing problems did not reult in a
cear and wel consdered view of the fumdanmtal principles which should govern the future
organiztion. In an effort to imrVve the focus, a Danish semi-govenmental firm was
contracted to develop and help implement the CIS. A master plan was produced by the
codltants, and adopted by the Revenue Board in 1986. The systms developed by the
Daish consultants between 1986 and 1989, however, were not adopted or implemented by
Customs. Instead recommendations of a furtier study by consultants financed by the
Commonwealth Secri in 1989 was adopted by GO in 1990. The consultants who
prepared this study were retined by OJ to implement the proposals. At the same time
(0 agreed to a plan of action for development of customs systems suggested by the Bank
dudng disussons on TFSALII. Each of these systems reqired significantly different
implementation acdon, and the difficulties aring from this were compounded by allocation
of resonsibility for Customs reform to a newly created Division of the Ministry of Finance
(Rnue Protec    Division) while responsibility for the work of the Danish consultants
remaned with the Raeenue Board. ITe inuagency problems which arose, coupled with the
nn-adoption of the majonty of the computer based ytem  financed under TAL II by
Customs as the ultimate user, negated the benefit which had been hoped for from the TAL II
financed as_sia. Under the ongoing (revisd Customs Reform program-under the
respobility of RPD-thc government has recently taken a decision to accderate the
compurIzton of the Cutoms. A few of the systm financed under TAL II were put to



- 12 -
use during the past year. The deign of new computerized systems, more suitable for the
reformed customs is underway. This and other aspets of customs reform will be supported
under a proposed Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan (PSDAL).
28. A second activity aimed at improving revenue collection has proven more successful
(the GCI. The exercise was well prepared, and the timing was critical to the avoidance of
delay in the introduction of the tax supported under TPSAL II. Although, revenue from
GCT has been much higher than originally expected, there is room for improving its
administraton. The Country Economic Memorandum currently under prepation is
reviewing issues related to tax administraton and will make recommendations for
improvements which may be supported under future opetions.
29.   A number of the activities aimed at stnghening the PIOJ yielded high quality
studies and recommendations. However, in some cases the recommendations served more
for immediat input into policy without longer term application (CAIS), or have not yet led
to policy action while developing much needed data bases (e.g., Manufacturing Sector Cost
Stctue Study). The CAIS was relevant to its time and helped inform the CET
negotiations, and focused attention on the need to relieve direct and indirect exporters of
internal and tariff tax burdens. In several activities, short term benefits in strengthening
PIOJ's technical capacty (e.g., Technical Cooperation Management, PSIP) provided
immediate needed support, but may need to be reinforced such that longer term captue can
occur. Similarly, extensive training of STATIN staff, both on the job by TAL-financed
consultants, and during study tours to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics and Census Bureau
have built a solid base of technically qualified personnel. One of the more important sets of
activities conducted under the PI0J component was the mana gIa ing and related
studies. While the Manpower Plan deveoped under this activity was never adopted, that
study and several related studies (e.g., the redundancy study, sveral small studies aimed at
particular segments of the labor market) informed social service and employment prgrams
under the Seaga Government. Howeer, training efft for PIW0 and, to a lesser extent
STATIN (see pam  34) ae at ene_d by the possible dqeue of quality staff due to poor
pay and employment conditions.
30.   Activities aimed at strengg direct foreign investment in Jamaica focused
attention on insuonal support to IAMMRQ, to national manuftm  involved in vanous
industrial sbects, and to the development of inormion procesing sstems (INTX.
Virtually all acvities under this component yielded positive results in improving the
productvity and markeabilit of several industi, and in providing a survey of training
needs for subsectors. The INTEX study identified the consequenc of tariff cianges in
telecommunications, tecal rsu ig  needs, and potential marke. Whilo sbstantial
promise is evident in the actvities inidated under this component, addional sot is
necessary. The proposed PSDAL (and the ongoing 1DB loan) are supng actions to
furt  clarify JAPRO's mandae to focus its acdons on investment expt facilitan and
rmoving remaining control fmnctions. These activities should increa  its effectiveness.



- 13 -
31.  In the case of AkirAia, the TAL 1 financed Acting Deputy Geneal manager
worked with the senior management of AJ to tmain counterparts and was instrumental
improving AJ's operadonal and financial performance. Ther has been system wide
acceptance and some institudonal changes e.g., a computiz  revenue accounting system
was designed and put in place, the fleets expansion study led to the acquisition of new airbus
300 and was a critical input Into the 5 year stategic plan, a training program in maintenance
and quality control was established, and quality control and maintenance deprments have
been fully developed. This contributed to approval of AJ's maintenmce procedures by
Bdtish and French aviation authorties. Howeve, despite these improvements, Air Jamaca
has managed a financially non-viable public entity, PIOJ has put AJ on its investments and
has completed preparatory work for privatization (to be supported under PSDAL).
32.   As has been noted above, the reallocation of TAFEX funds to support interim
financing of the ABPI and the preparation of a follow-on project suffered from a number of
shortcomings in implementadon. While some 30 of 50 entities had adopted the performance
budgeting approach recommended by the first set of consultants under the ARP at the time of
the change in direction, the move to what is refed to as a wperformance-oriented"
budgetng system begun under intenm financing still has not been adopted by all entities.
The lack of continuity has meant that results for these funds are only visible in the context of
continuing work under the new lending opeton for financial management (3386-JbM.
Neither the Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) nor the (Integmted
Financial Management InformIon System (FMMS) envisioned at the time of fund transfer
have been realized to date. Seveal amendments to the use of funds under the reallocation
sulted in increased portions of funding for consultancies and reducwons in transfers of
goods, and the prposed installation of software and hardware did not occur at the time.
One of the more positive consequences of this reallocation has been the development of a
rporte planning mdhodology and trning that is curently being  plemented. Whle the
current proect seems to have gained clear tecbicalat     dirctdon from the lengthy
hiatus resulting from redirecto of purpose, several years of implementation intentions were
lost.
G. S
33.  It is difficult to make judgements on the longer term snabilit of efforts aimed at
strengthening the insitutional envirnmnent of reform. ID activities are not one time
inserdons of TA. The ut        of a number of activities under the project is uncertain
(e.g., most assistance to the PIO) due maily to difficulties in raining qualified civil
servant trained with TAL funds). In some cases, activites intentionally serd short tem
pupose without defect   longer trm instiuonal suport (e.g. most PESAL reated
activites). A number of actvities proved useful, but wer aimed at long term insdtitional
chan. In yet othr poject acdvities, the lonwer term purposes of insdtutional strengthening
requr that condnued spport for actvities and agencies be fiothcoming. Such is the case,
for example, in the substantial work that has been conducted in the Manpower Panning



- 14 -
activities under the loan, where sustainable institution strengthening after consultancies have
terminated are not assured.
34.   sf made a serious effort to sustain the development of btvter and more timely
basic data for improved national accounts supported under TAL II by: (i) making training an
explicit objective of each consultant assignment; (ii) developing relevant stadstics curricula at
local taning institutions (with TAL financed consultant assistance); (iii) assigning several
counteparts at senior and junior levels to work with each consultant; (iv) extensive use of
overseas training courses and bonding of trainees; (v) estabishing Omentorst in each division
(regular user division members with extra PC training), which relieved some pressure on the
limited number of computer systems staff; (vi) developing and/or acquirnng video training
cassettes and establishing a self-learning computer. About 75% of STATIN staff tained
under TALs I and II had been retained as of October 1991. This will enable STATIN, at
least in the short to medium term, to sustain the institutional strengthening achieved under
the TALs. It is less clear that staff with marketable statistical and computer skills will
remain with STATIN in the longer term, unless Government payment and employment
policies begin to approach those of the private sector.
35.   Nevertheless, with recent libelization/deregulaton STATIN has lost reliable sources
of data. Redefinition of its role is now needed to enable STATIN to meet the data and
analytical needs of Government and the private sector. Until this happens and pay and
employment policies are improved, there is little chance that further institutional
development/modernization efforts will be successful.
H.   Bak
36.   Both the Bank and the PIOJa dapted the lessons learned from TAL I to the design of
TAL II, as indicated in Section D of this PCR. In general, Bank supervision and
performance during the first three years of the project appean reasonably strong. As
indicated in pam. 14, SODs were more closely involved in the design and supervision of
TAL H than TAL I. Strong decision-maldng with regard to the use of TAFEX funds
resulted in a reallocation for more productive purposes, for example. More intensive
consultations with other donors dunng the design stage, howeer, might have averted the
need to cancel the TAPEX. Decision to use project activities in direct and indirect support
of conditonalite under SALs and SECALs may have srgn  the capacity of those
progrms. However, portions of the project were caught in the intenal dynamics of Bank
reorganiz n in the ARP) and shiftg operational esponsibilides within the Rk that
clearly resulted in implementation delays and some friction between Bank and Borrwx  It
is not clear that a sense of Borrower ownership of the revsed ARP I was present at the time
of the decisions to shift the purpose and finding of acdvides. For a period of time (from
late 1987 through 1988) the lack of continuity in supervion of the ARP and the changing
use of ongoing consultancies by the Bank resulted in delays that are a function of intra-Bank
divisional shifts.



- 15 -
I.            P
37.  Borrower perfornmnce under TAL II was improved fom its predecessor loan. The
decision to involve fewer entitles in the project resulted in much more coordinated
implementation and concerted acdon tirough PIOI. However, several isu  of Borrower
petformance have been noted in detail above and are summized here. First, some TAL II
beneficiary agencies (e.g. JAMPRO) expressed concemn over delays in PIOJ's processing
new consultancies. Second, ommu   ons between Bank and Borrower note the continuing
problem of the lateness and poor quality of Project Audit Reports. Third, proess reports
were frequently late and lacked assessments. Fourth, while fewer institutions involved
generally meant better inter-institutional coordination, there were exceptions. In particular,
the failure of the CIS component was in large part due to failures in effective coordinaton.
The shift of responsibility for customs reform from the RB to the MoP without the
concomitant transfer of management of the TAL II financed customs consultants resulted in a
net loss of utlity of this effort. Fifth, the period subsequent to the realiocation of fuids
from the TAPEX proved to be a period of flux and delay on the part of Government, and a
clear waning of commitment to the course of the use of remaining funds is evident. While
the effects of Hurricane Gilbert and the expecations of immnent elections account in part
for this delay, repeated efforts by the Bank to encourage Government to act in support of the
requirenents for a new project were not heeded, pardcularly through mid-1989.
J.    Pxie  Relationsbig
38.  Te main difference between TAL I and TAL II in the rdationship between the Bank
and the PIOJ was that the PIOJ remained the main point of contact for the Bank for non-ARP
ativities throghout implementation. They were not bypassed as under TAL I.
Counterparts were assigned to work w-th consultants (unlike TAL I). Consultants were given
complete TOR with clear divisions of labor between themselves and their counpt.
Unfortunately, interagency coordinaion was weak on at least one activity-the CISsulting
in virtual loss of the TAL investment. In addition, the use of rlcated funds to suWport
ongoing ARP activities and the preparation of ARP II was an effort to assure the
coorination among various lending opaions, and although implementation delays were
significant, the support provided is evident in the new FPMIP.
K. lEgnmudne Senrvices
39.  Inividuals and firms, natdonal and intratonal consultants were employed under the
project. Consultant peformance under TAL II were generally of good quality. In most
cases, the clear design of consultant activities with specific ta  and lines of reo t
meant that completion of work on time and of good quality was the rule. Where consultant
actt  did not lead to clear results it was often the   ence of lack of clarity of
mission provided by the Bank and Government or changes in gaonal reationships and



-16-
responsibilitis in the Bank  d Govrenment. One clear exception to the above was the
repated dlays and poor quality in the provision of timely and accure audit reports by the
consulting firm.
L.   &Wect_and
40.   Documentaion for the project itself is generally of good quality. The project
benefitted in the early stages from the existence of a careful mid-term eview of the earlier
TAL I. Tht documentation, tethe with intansive efforts to provide clear direcdon for
project implementation i the SAR and comprehensive Project Operating Manual, provided a
useful framework and proved invaluable in the early stages of the project. Similaly, the
legal agreements for the project (Loan Agreement, PIOJ Project Ageement, and JECIC
Project Agreemnt) and subsequent Amendments to the Loan Agreement pwvided clear
direction for implementation.
41.  However, an examinaion of President's Reports. Supervision RUps and PCRs for
SAL m, the ASAL, the TFSALs I and II, and a draft of the PESAL do not uggest the clea
links of some TAL activities. For example, while the PESAL refom mnatix refers to the
telephone rate structure study, to the food subsidy study, and to the assets and liabilities
inventory required for tranche reease, no reference to the TAL role is noted. Within each,
thr is a somewhat hermetic ereatment of activities and performance, in spite of obvious
relationsh  to the TAL. Similarly, BTORs of these loans do not assess the performance of
the TAL in reationsip to conditionalities included. In addition, the documentation in
TFSAL H took no account of the TAL funding for the CIS or GCT. Had it,done so, it is
possible that the confusion of 00M inter-agency responsibilities (Revenue BWd/MOF) might
have been more effectively addressed.
42.   Preparation of this PCR benefitted from the availability of constent superion
rWo  on tie P1O0 managed part of the loan throughout the life of the project. In
particular, the final squ ision rport (November, 1992) was prpared with consideration for
the needs of PCR prepartion and carefully documents the activitis caried out under the
Loan. Sevea  interim evaluati  of the ARP provided furth   formation useful in
prepation of this report.
M.
43. There are several lessons to be learned both for the broader issue of the role of TALs
in the ontext of public sector reform and SALs, as wel as for the specific contect of
Jmaca.
i     When TA. activities aine to coditos of ausnoeons, it is
irt da ta perormnceindicator be included in fth SAISCLdsg  n



- 17-
reflected in the TAL documentaton. In the case of TAL II, the documentation
for related adjustment opeations (including supervision reports) did not
include either explicit indicators or clear link with the TAL.
ii.   The real cost to Borrowers of implemendng SALs and SECALs may be
underestmated when separate TALs are required in order to fulfill
conditionality for tranche release. Clear linkages to the TAL (or other source
of essential TAL) must be reflected in SAL/SECALs along with a realistic
time frame for institutionalization.
iii. Effots at institutional development in the gublic sector that do not recognize
the need to strenglen the human resource dimension for the longa term are
nAot susnable. One serious concern for the sustainability of efforts under this
project are the poor conditons of pay and employment in the civil service that
continue to plague the public sector's capacity to recruit and retain qualified
and motivated staff. While early loan documentation indicaWt that civil
service reform was to be supported by the Bank under series of operations, the
successor operon to ARP I does not address this problem as envisaged.
iv.   Cmuter Systems should be tested immediatly on a pilot basis and in a
of           before proceeding to software completion for the full
array of sytem (CIS). The CIS experience indicates the need for strict user
analysis of procedures and work places, though specification of user
requirements, pilot testing and evaluation, parallel manual/computer operation
at'the introductory phase, and systematic arangements for evaluating and
adoptng idenified needs for change priorAt full installation of the system.
V.    Extensive cnltioswith other donors is an essetial Var of proi-c deign
to avoid overlap and duplication (rAFEX).
vi.   TALs should not be overly ambitious, particularly in turbulent administaive
and political envionments. Size of loan, complexity of operation, and the
number of component activities all place burdens on borrowers as wel as the
Bank. TIh project design and implementation gained valuable insight from the
Shortcomings of the earlier TAL I (as reviewed by the Sunshine Associates
mid-term eWaluation) in providing fewer, more focussed, and clearly directed
compoents involving fewer agencies to support the SAP.
vi.            =Sm rquires not only  contn
the part of Govenment. but also eve. continued, and coordinated
muwisnion on the part of the Bank. Institution building refoms are labor
mtesive in   vion terms by thdr very nate and demand caril
assurance of continuity on the part of both the Bank and the Borower. The
cdrcumstnces of Bank   ni , changed divisional reponsibilities for



- 18-
suprision of the ARP, and changes in Government aUl prved to add to
delays in implementation under this project.
viii.  The mm  of   sition fom design to inan eeb
cafl ft-nd oWe rt ia                In this cae, the prepaion of an
Operating Manual for the project, the efforts to clarify the repective roles of
the PCU, beneficiary agencies, and the Bank, and clear rules on procurement,
contractng, and disbursement improved project implemention. Major delays
did occur in the project, but primarily a result of the reallocation of TAFEX
funds.
ix.   While some flexibilit in the ume of proeWt funds is athe
of lar  amounts of nalctdfunds may. lea to Mnaod=ri  prtWj-c
actvides, difficuldes in monitoring, and delays in implemenion. Flexibility
during implementation, and the willingneSS to alter the course of
Implementation, proved very positive in permitting project actvities to respond
to ongoing reforms. The reallocation of TAFEX funds in this rgard stands
out as a key strength. The use of funds to support SECAL activities and the
ongoig ARP and the development of ARP II were a positive efforts intended
as means of assurng that the proess natue of institutional development
would continue.



-19 -
PRJET11PLgON REPORT
JAMAIC
aIDAN 2507-JM)
PART M1: STATISTICA  INFORMATION
Tablo 1: Reltd Po
Projec/La No.   Purpos                                       Yoar of    Status
and Tide                                                     Approval
2105-JM:          Stuctural Adjustme  aimd at fting eport- 1982          Fully disbursed
Strucural         led gowth and the pdvate sector through
Adjustmet Loan I  attnon on the need for public sector savings,
public investm  restruct    to favor
Infrtucture, aand dergulation. Non-tradidonal
exports, arcultual and mAu    r received
particular amtontion.
2106-3M:          TMe project itet was to support the recety    1982     Fuly dibursed
Technical         initiated and ambious SAP prgm of the G03
Assisac Loa       and the broad SAL of 1982 though the provision
($6.1M)           of onsultn  for studies and highlevel experts
for key advisory positons and training of local
managers.
2315-JM:          Struc  Adjusme was Intended to deepen    1983          Fully disbwsed
Sucur             Initiatives undetake under SAL I wih the
Adjustnt Lon I addition  inclusion of action program  to
($60.2M)          Impove public aministaion.
2423-lM: Public    aos  on significant acions taken by GO in    1984    Fully disbursed
Admitration       conetion with SAL 11, this loan was intended
Reform Project    to fiance the forei exchange costs of
($4.SM)           clAces, training, and toehical assistco
Inecsry to support the G(0 progrm  of
AdmbInistratie Reform Progm. n padtular,
tho effrt ws to strehn theadminive
environment for reform in three core ministiles
(Fiance, Public Soevice, and the Public Service
Comlmission)and to focus attention in the ar ea
of facia              human reource
and line agey restucturig.



.20-
2478-JM:          Structural Adjustment project continued to focus  1984  Fully disbursed
Structural        on the medium term but included measures
Adjustment m      aimed at achieving the stabilization program,
($55.OM)          including criteria for financial performance of
public enterprises, a new energy program,
budgetary reforms, a revised PSIP, and
enhancement of export development programs.
2848-JM: Trade    The objective of the project was to support  1987     Fully disbursed
and Finance Sector  ongoing Structural Adjustment and Stabilization
Adjustment Loan I  Prgrams as revised to take into account
($40.OM)          recommendations of Tripartite Commission
(IMF, IBRD, USAID) that visited Jamaica in
1985-1986. Principal foci included efforts to
simplify tariff system and reduce non-tariff
barriers, separating monetary and fisc  policy,
eliminatig financial market distortions, and
creatng the institutional and fiscal eAvironment
to strenthen capital akets.
2899-JM:          Objectives of the project were to assist G0I to   1988  Fully disbursed
Education Program   prepare options for basic education rehabilitation
Preparation and   and development program and to strengthen the
Student Loan      Government's student loan progm  fr higher
($8.3M)           education with studies, technical assisuce,
-,  and funds.
2849-JM: Public    The objectives of the project were to support the 1987  Fully disbursed
Enterprie Sector   SAP of the GOJ by improving the fiscal
Adjustment Lon-   perfomco of enise through improved
PESAL ($20M)      monioring and control,  woved operaig
balances, the eliminaion of governmnt arms,
and a redon in the size and scope of the
public sector.



- 21 -
3111-JM: Social    Objectives of the project wero to improve  1989      Currently in
Sector            efficiency, delivery, and management of social        operation
Development       services, especially health and education, by
Project ($30.oM)   supporting the Government's Human Resource
Development Program (HRDP).
3174-JM:          Purpose of the project was to support      1990       Fully disbursed
Agricultul Sector  Government ongoing program of adjustme
Adjustmeat Loan   through improvements in the sector incentive
($25.OM)          framework, continuation of the divestiture
process, and assistance in establishing an
insfitutional basis for dealing with the improper
use of pesticides.
3303-JM: Second    Purpose of the project is to strengthen and  1991     Currenty in
Trade and Finance  deepen initiatives and reform efforts begun under     operation
Sector Adjustment  TFSAL I.
Loan (S30.OM)
3386-JM: Financial Purpose of the proJect is to support GOJ efforts  1991  Currently in
and Program       to impove the efficiency of financial and human        operation
Mnagement         resource management in the Central
mrovement Loan  Ad tion, building on and incorporating
($11.5M)          lessons learned under ARP I. Principal
componen  focus on financia management,
program manement, oomputer systems,
training, and the overall management of refrm
through the Office of the Pime Minister.
Under  eation   Purpose of the project will be to promote firther 1993   Under
Trade and Private  rationalization of the trade regime and public   (woposed)  Preparation
Sector            enterprise public sector expenditur; and
Dovelmt           ctinuaon of regulatory reform and
($50.0)           p*Vat on.



-22 -
Table 2:   P     T i2
Activity                        Original Loan Dates            Actal
Initating Activities             June 1984                     June 1984
Pruappralsal Mission             July/August 1984               December 1984
Appraisal Mission                September 1984                 September/October 1984
Negotons                         February 1985                  Februay 1985
President's Report               February 1985                  Februay 26, 1985
Board Approval                   Marh 1985                      March 19, 1985
Loan Agreemen                    July 1985                      April 12, 1985
Effetvese                        July 1985                      September 16, 1985
First Loan Amendment                _                           November 13, 1987
Second Loan Amendment                                           Mach 20, 1990
Loan Closing                     April 30, 1988                 October 31, 1991
Loa Compledon                    October 31, 1988               Februay 28, 1992



-23-
(US$ millions)
Bank FY
1986    1987    1988    1989       1990    1991    1992
Apprada EstnaIte             4.0      6.7      8.1      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0
Actul                        2.8      4.6      6.2      6.9      8.2      9.0
Acual as % of
Esdimate                     33       42       57       69       77       91      100
Date of Find Disbuwrement: February 29, 1992



-24-
IWa 4A&: bEWodFAdog
($000)
Clatogoy                            04MOdi    Modifiod"  Modifieed    A1a
k1) PIO-Goods                       SOO       500         500         223
(2) (i) Consultants' Services
and ang   for PIOJ
subproject                         4,505     5,855       5,855       6,511
(Ii) Consultant recruitment
costs for PIO) project               25        75          75         -
(3) Consultant' Services and
training under Part F(b)            290       270         270         124
(4) (a) Sub-loam under
Part F(b)                        3,080      -           - 
(b) Transfer from TAFEX
to amended components:
J (ARP-Goods)                               730      -    ,50.       54
(5) PIO Special Account             400       400         400          2
(6) Borrower's Special
Account                           200       400         400         -
(7) Consultants' Services and
Training for Part J of the
Project                             -         770        1,450       2,086
TOTAL                               9,000     9,000       9,000       9,000
J As of August 31, 1992
1L A    _MW. to Lou Avzomt of Nwoibv, 19S7.
ta Ammdmmt to Loaw A w     .t onk 199.



-25 -
Table S: Sttus of Lo  Cove
Sctlion             Brief Descripdon of Covenant                Compliance and Remarks
3.01b               Borrower shall make available to PIOJ       Complied
proceeds required for PIOJ Sub-project
3.01c               Botrower shall relend to JECIC amount of    Loan Agreement amended
Loan proceeds allocated for purposes of     as noted below and
flfilling JECIC Subproject to make          TAFEX Sub-Project
Subsidiary loans                           terminated
3.01d               Borrower shall exercise rights under        Amended as noted below
Subsidiary Agreement and Subsidiary Loan
Agremnt so as to protect bodt Borrower
and Bank intrests
3.01e               Borrower shall mainin and adminie           Loan Agreement amended
account for purposes of making Subsidiary   as noted below and
loans                                       lECICTAFEX Sub-
Project terminated
2.02                JECIC dsHll establish, maintan and          Project Agreement
administer an account denominated Techical  amended and Project
Assistce Fund for Export for purpose of    teminated as noted below
makin Sub-loans to Beneficiaries
2.03                JECIC shall make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries  Project Agrement
on satisfactory terms and condtons                  and Project
terminted as noted below



-26
PIOI hwi
2.02                PIOJ shall enr into conual                  Complied
arragements with STATIN, Air Jamaica,
National Investment Bank of Jamica, nd
such other entites a required for Pau B
and I of the Project
2.03 - 2.07         PIOJ shall comply with prcuemen,            Complied
consultant, reords maintenae, and other
obligations in accord with Bank ronm
4.01                PIOI shall maintain records and accounts in  Complied
accordance with sound acounting pcices
and with periodic audi requirements as
specified
ntNovrember,
3.01                Borrower doclares coitment to Projet        Amended Loan Agreemnt
objecties as s4t foth in Schedule 2         modifies PIOJ
(modification of original) to cry out Part J  responsibilities, deles
and to cause PIOJ to peorm its ogationb     3.01 (c & o) wi
induding ose of Part I                      r_eeon  to JECIC Sub-
Project, and ddetes
refenc   to Subsidiary
Loan Agre_m
Complied as Amended
3.01 -3.04          ARl rfoences to JECIC and to Subsdiy         n effect temint the
Loa ad Projeat ae ddeted                    J1CIC TAFEX Subsidiary
Project
4.01                Borrower dhal maina all approriatd                          f
records and accot  procedures for                     to Schedule 1
fblfihg Pat J (addioti) to the Project     to include new cateory of
eenditures for P10 to
carry out added activities
under Pas J nd K of
a_ene Schoedul
Teminated                                   Complied with and
A     _=                                                       _transfer of hands achieved
in amended Schedule 2



-27 -
Tahlg    Us f6:        uurA
A. Staff
Stoge of Project Cycle                                    Acu  Staff Woob
Pre-Appralsal/ApprabWr                                    4.5
Negodatos                                                 6.0
Appraisal Through Board Approval                          19.9
Supevision Through I 1192                                 68.2
TOTAL                                                     98.6
Project Compledon Report                                   7.9
B. Bank Suprvion Missionz'
Number of     Days in       Spcaliraio              Prform            Type of
MoY               has             M                                    Raes '4   R-p
6/85             I              7          ECN                         2                M
11/85             1             5           TAO                        2                M
8186             2              6          TAO, ECN                    2                M
7187             3              5          TAO(2), LEG                 2                M
5/88            -2             12          TAO, STA                    2                M
10/89             I             S           TAO                        2                M
11/90             1S                        TAO                        2                M
10/91             3             12          TRCITAO. COM               2                M
lL     The Pf        auu bdu  iaded d  ou my loa of, oougy  _omma, ashia aume
otheo and a_tm aioI dweopma ejsoa (an). Addio  staff wm&b inour in Wduiilms    a
p_aw  o  TAL  we   oded ai  pb repao ofSAL m (27841).
Ti Op, don not rnges gh u. upeisl SAL M an pwalnS an *ueviuag 2W4M, 28484M,
28494M, 31744W1, 3034M,  and  33863M dwiS   abs    d  omnpoatnos of TAL 1 we am suevied.
Qhi Tbl do  oo ggotthlad Do aff dme spot suprvlubg do AR couponit of TAL 11, whib ws
howd to p_rpuion of 3386M.
Auny's hr upeui h ase a blos: IWN-mhowlt FNA -Pham  MP-Maao,m_ ;
OPA-PMI A.ahlum; TAO-Teoho l Aiaom Ofer, COM --CTl   C-TIdsnd
CopuSuIzi- - STAmb _is, LEO-Law.
P-P*W1u  P-PInanuisl, M -mM    _,umI I-l_hSfhL



-28 -
AM=E I
Activity                                                                             hat  
(USS)
1.    Planning Institute of bamdaca (PIM                                              28
1.    Export Incentive and Comparative Advantage Study    520,000
2.    Cost Structure of the Manufacturing Sector            80,000
3.    Commodity Forecasting                                 50,000
4.    Technical Cooperation Management                     100,000
5.    Public Sector Investment Program Assistance          200,000
6.    Manpower Planning and Related Assistance             730,000
II.    Mise of Education                                                             34
7.    Finanial Manat Assistance                            100,000
m.   Statistil           of Jamaica TI                                               34
8.    Various studies and training assistance              645,000
9.    Money Demand and Supply Study
(With Bank of Jamaica)                               30,000
IV.   Revemie Board                                                                  36
10.   Customs Information System (CIS)                   1,900,000
11.   General ConsumPtion Tax Training and Equipment      780,000
V.   Imaa Invesueet Promotion A&=  aAMPRO                                            39
12.   Modendzation of Industy Progm                        270,000
13.   Promotion of Infrmation Procossing Industry           70,000
VI.   A;Jamaica                                                                      40
14.   Managerial, Financial, and Tec al Assitae            800,0
VIL.  Pubic Earise SctorAdlIUM o          nLw                                        42
1S.   Telephone and Tariff Structure Study                  8S,000
16.   Establishment of Divestitue Unit in NIBI             250,000
17.   Speciized Cosuacy Acdvities to NIU                    20,000
18.   Iventory of PE Ast an Liabilities                     60,000
19.   Food Securty Stdy of JCTC                             12,000
20.   Social Wdlleng Program                                60,000
VIII.  ASiectouamar   Lont   ALn                                                      44
21.   Pr}paaIon of ASAL                                     75,000
22.   Small Farmer Dovopme  Assistac                        50,000
Jx.   Assistance to      Stck xcan                                 9,000              45
X.       icl            Pund  for   1    aA=                                          45
24.   Managemt CoDsultt and Maras, and on-lending          270,000
Xl.   A niaU.            h                                                            47
25.   Seaior Mang       Advir                               90,000
26.   Asistn  to ARP                                      1,900,000
TOTAL                                                           99000,000



-29 -
SUMMARY OF BENEMICIARY AGENCIES,
ACTI     ES, AND OUT0VTl
1.     LANNN  INSTuE OF JICA  (1t10
1.    EXPORT INCENTV    AND COMPARAMV  AMANTAGE STUDY (CAM
(SS20.0). This assistance formed part of a series of TAL II activities related to tariff
reform and efforts to resucture the manufaturing sector along export-onented lines. For
most of the 1980s the Jamaican Goveanmnt pusued a program of structural adjustment
designed to facilitae the transforon of the economy from a substantfally import-
substitutiongrowth model to a model with a grer bias towards exports. One of the more
tangible outcomes of the Program was the elimination of quantitative restrictions and the
replacement of these with tariff protection. However, this process was not a smooth one,
often suffering from an inadequate information/database from which to make decisions on the
approprite level of tariffs. For this reason, SAL m second tranche conditionality required
that: Oprogress shall have been made in carrying out a study on incentives to economic
civities and on the comparaive advantage of exporters in the Borrower's teritory." The
SAL HI PCR recorded under the 'Action Taken matrix that: 'the consultants are in place
and working. The study is going well so far, and is on schedule for completion by
December 31, 1985.' The Comparative Advantage and Incentives Study (CAIS) was
completed in November 1985.
2.    The President's Report for the First Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment Loan noted
that the CAIS had identified the advere effect on Wxorters of a combination of excessive
tariff protecxon and wide rnging incentive aement.   e study's recommendation that
the GOJ aim for a flat tariff rabe of 25% proved to be unaainble during the negotiations on
the Common External Tariff (CEI). A rebate scheme for eports was prposed and was
introduced in 1985. It was welcomed by exporr, but was later terminated at the insince
of the IMF. The remmendatons emerging from the TAL study that the replacement of
tariff rebates by a drawback scheme do not appear to have been sucesul in gaining tWade
support. The aim should be to develop a system of duty sunion reief for exporters
while retni  thw  rawbck syswem for txhe who may in pa r        sances find
drawback more convenient (i.e., occasional exportes for whom it may be uneconomical to
establish full suspension       . The futue of the Anti-Dumping Duty d
legislation recommeunded une the study also apper undecded since there is doubt that the
Jamaican market would be a likely target for dumpng on any significant dumpig. The
prposa to cease apovals under the Incentive Act, was accepted, and incves are now
tawgetd in a more focwssed way an specific sectors. Exporter we given the choice of
reaining the benefit of th Expt Industr  Act or pting for payment of expoft rebat.
Many chose the latter option, and the terinato of rebate, and disfaction with the
drawback scheme which replaced the rebate has anagonized exporters.



-30-
3.    Alhough external fars and subsequent developments have eroded most of the CAIS
poposals, the udy was relevant to its dme (1985/86), helped to inform the CET
negotations, and continues to focus attention on the nted to rdieve direct and indirect
exporter of intenal and tadff tax burdens. This tdy also identified the lack of daa on
comparative costs in manufacturing and the need to analyze this data on a continuous basis to
properly assess the effects on the competitveness of Jamaican manufd products of
international developments, domestc devaluations, fiscal and monetay policies, changes in
price of imported and domestic inputs and other cost.
4.    CER U
This study was completed in February 1991 and complements tie Export Incentives and
Comparative Advantage Study. Its immediate objective was achieved. A data base and
mini-computer programs have been created which permit analysis of the impact of taiff
reforms and changes in fiscal and monety policies on sdected lky sub-secto  of
manufacWting: food/agricultural, beverage/tobacco, footwar/lea, taetilegarment,
chemicals/products, dectrical/eleconic, non-melallic mineal products, wood/fuinitue, and
paper. The data base and the methodologies adopted facilitate monitoring and analysis of
sector developments, including the import co-efficient of specific inputs to manufu . It
also provides an indicadon of the comparative efficiency of manu   within each sector.
S.   It is acdowledged that the program has not yet been a  cor in shaping policy
decisions. It will require igh lee supr to perae decidsion makers in other agencies to
use the information available. PIOJ intends to carry out more exesve economic analysis of
co-t struc  to convince policy makr of the relevmce and usulnes of the data base. If
PII's Ecmic and Sector Diviion can aciv the appropiate level of consultation, the
Unit hould prove a valuable aide to infomed policy decisions. The recent libraliaton of
the Jamaican dolar may enowag use of the dat base to track h effect of more volatile
echange movmets. Much depends, however, on the ability of the PIOJ to retin
experienced and trained staff. Of the oiginal four PIQJ staff assigned to this task, only 2
remained at the time of the final TAL II suevi    mission, and if they should leave before
suceso  are trained and expedenced, the opeaon coud be in considerb  difficulty. in
the absence of pay and employment poliis ta recogiz the market value of skilled staff,
the future of this and  milar units remains highly unceain.
6.                      _ASIN.(L LS            One of the objectives of this assis=ce
was to reduce maret ris  and uncertainty for Jamaican producs and taders thereby
prviding an imprvd bu        climate for the pmte sector and upport for tade poicies
that maximize access to        markets. In L;eu of devdfong a sopisIced
commodity modlling opation within PICI (as originally proposed)- which would require
extsive training and higly sildLed officials who would be difficult for the PIQI to retain-
the P101 agreed that foeatg globat or Jamaican markoets oudd be better served by
analyzing info tin already avaiable from other surc. TAL II financed the visits of
hee P101 staff to he Ba's Intnat  Commodity Division, USDA, and the DOM



-31-
Commodity Forecasting Units and to the Sugar, Coffee and Cocoa nternaonal Commodity
Organizaions in London. TAL I and USAID assistance was used to set up a data base
which will be updatd periodically through conta  made and publications funded initally
through TAL II.
7.   The objecdve of enabling PIOJ staff to develop the ability to monitor and analyze
world commodity markets in order to coordinate the policy aspect of the activities of
commodity boards seems to have been achieved through this access to curmnt information on
intemational commodity markets. The Commodity Foresting Unit is wel connected to
sources of information and market intelligence about changes and developments in the world
commodity markets. The Unit has regular contact with Commodity Boards and the US
Department of Agrculture. It tracks the relationship between domestic and border prices,
the premium potential for certain Jamaican produce (e.g. cocoa) and is focusing on
lnderdeveloped market potential (e.g. yams). It is hoped to extend the agricultual index,
the range of information sources, and the Unit's foreasing ability. This will enable the
Unit to imprwve the identification of crops with a competitive advantage, and to compare
domestic and border prices. The information available has also been used in trade
libralizion analyses. For example, cocoa prices are tracked to review the realistic
premium expectation for Jamaica produce. It is intended to extend the analysis of
commodities to demand side items (e.g. fuel) and to products (e.g. fruit residues, orange
oil). The unit effectively acts as a catalyst, providing information for others to act upon.
8.   The program, therefore, appears to have achieved its initial objctwves. The thr  to
ssainability again appears to lie in the ability to reain expeienced staff, as per para 5
above.
9.    TEHIC    C OPlRA-00MAA G TAL II originally had
$240,000 eanarked to srength  the Technical Cooperton CM  Departmt of PIOJ. The
President's Report provides for TAL II assista   to impro  the capacity of PIOJ's
Tchnical Cooperation Divison (TCD) to: (i) coordinate and adminster fiee-stnding TA
and; (ii) coordinat and administer TAL HI. Consultant assistance with respect to the latter
activity was completed. A long term (one year) cnultant assisted in putting into place
measres to implement TAL H, replacing to an extent the servies that had been sWplied by
UNDP's Office for Projeat Services under TAL I. Following the departm of the consultant
it was prposed that fuither streng ng of TCD be carried out with the fnancing and
as_sin   of a joint UNDP/IDB grant in the context of a UNDP/IDB proet cycle
management p    t Agements are curenty being finalized for a $500,000 UNDP
project to comlete the work envisaged.
10.  
One of the conditions for release of the second tache of the first structural adjusmnt loan
was the preparation of a three-year investment progam and the instiuion of a quartely
repordng system on its progress. With financing from TAL I, consulnts helped the
Government develop formal qsyems for the preparation and moniting of the PSIP. TAL HI



-32 -
continued financng of the consultant who prepaed -the format for a manual system of
quarterly eportng aimed at improving the tracking of the physical and financial progre of
investment projects. This report was to be based on information submitted from line
ministries. The consultant conducted extensive training courses for core and line ministry
staff. The reports were to be incorporated into yearly expenditure statements which in turn
were to feed into the thee year rolling plan, as agreed under the adjustment program. Only
one cycle of three monitoring reports was completed (1988). There was difficulty in getting
some ministries to comply (particularly the Ministries of Agriculture and Works).
Consideration was given to withholding warrants for non-compliance, but this idea was later
dropped. In addition, the process of producing quarterly reports was disrupted when the
manual process developed under TAL I and II was replaced by a computrized one, which
did not work.
11.   Officials in the Ministry of Finance and PIOJ expressed the view that the system
developed was both sound and important, but it has not been continued following the
departure of the consultant and the initiation of the computezation attempt. The reporting
formats and related instructions prepared under TAL II are, however, still available. In
order not to lose the substantial investment under TALs I and II, PIOJ agreed to take the
lead in ensuring that follow-up initiatives currently under consideration for UNDP and IDB
financing would take full advantage of the consultant's work financed under the TAL.
12.   Other TAL H financed PSIP-related assistance included two consultac. The first
was a continuation of a TAL I activity in which the consultant trained the staff of the
Projects Division of PIOJ in development and appraisal of capital investment projwects and
management of computer systems purchased under TAL I. A second consultant developed a
follow-up proposal to integrate the computezed systems for the PSIP, the Jamaica Pre-
Investnent Program (JPIP) funded by the IDB, and a related consultants register. The
sustinability of the consultants' work, however, is likely to be impeded, by thdir own
account, by high staff tunover. Finally, TAL II financed two vehicles for the Project
Analysis and Monitoring Compny (PAMCO) which is the agency responsible for monitoring
the physical implementation of projects.
13.   MN W                   A-     ,SSITACE (7,0. ne
assistance of a long-term Manpower Planning Specialist (1986-1991) and related studiaes was
included in TAL U with a view to deveMoping a mechanism through which labor market
signals could be monitored and projections of demand and supply made, so that mnpower
gaps (especially those resulting from the retructuring of the economy) could be identified
and recommendations made to training institutions (eg. CAST, UWI, MOB) to adjust
curricula accordingly. A prog   in manpower studies has been introduced at the UWI as a
result of this activity. A five year       and Redund ancy S t ud were carried out,
largely under dte guidance of the TAL financed Manpe Planing Specisis  The
Manpower Planning specialist's TOR were, however, somewhat vague and not adequatly
updated with each contract extension. This information would have prvided GM with more
precise indicatos with which to assess the Manpower Specialist's outputs.



- 33 -
14.                    was intended to facilitate implementation of the five year
Development Plan (1990-1995). While the Manpowa Plan itself was never formally
approved, elements of it were included in the Five Year Plan. It was prepared by the PIOJ
and reviewed by the Human Employment and Resource Trust (HEARi) and the Ministries of
Education and Labor. Its main objective was to provide linkages between the private sector
and government. It also provided the framework for analyzing employment implications of
proposed legislation, policies and programs and facilitated reading of market signals, which
in tum would impact on training curricula. TAL II funds were used to update the Plan in
CY91.
15.  While no labor market information system was put into place, as originally envisaged,
the research and other work carried out by the Manpower Planning Specialist in the areas of
supply, demand, productivity etc. have informed policy and otier decisions in areas relating
to social services and human resource development, including formal education.
Counterparts in the Manpower Division of the PIOJ were trained. However, this is one
among several TAL II activities whose sustainability after the consultant's departure will
have to be monitored.
16.  Theundanc St    v  was carried out in 1987 and traced the sts of wo rs laid
off between January 1984 and March 1987 as a result of the stucura adjustment program.
It is esdmated that 30,000 workers and 100,000 dependents were affected. The Study
examined the effects on family life, including dependents (e.g. dropout rates from school to
seek employment), and the response of different skill groups to employment. It made
recommendations for retaining workers; examined the extent to which redundant workers
were utilizing existing social programs; and evaluated the effectiness of the Redundancy
Act (public and private severance pay arrangements).
17. The results of the study revealed that many of the social programs, such as food
stamps and various self start programs (including busness start-up) have not been utilized,
largely because potential users were not aware of them. While no formal cost/benefit analysis
was undertaken, the study concluded that the it is lielly that the savings in salary payments
under redundancy progams are offset by otier direct and indirect costs. The results of the
study were taken into account in the Seaga Govemment's Social Well-Being Program. It was
not clear to what extent they were used by the Manley Government.
18.                    During the last two years of the TAL, the PIOJ with the
asistance of the Manpower Planning Specialist completed the following sdies. Thlis work
was carred out jointly with other concerned Govment entities, as well as the UN and
Jamaica's Prvate Sector O  on  (PSOJ). The studies were mainly oriented toward
employment generation and enhacing linkages with the private sector. Since most of the
sdies were only rcentdy completed at the time of the final Bank supervision/PCR mission,
it was not possible to asses eir impact.



-34 -
(i) UNDP/INISTAR assisted in reviewing the  _ani          dk    g
Structure for the EMViyMent Service Unit of the Manqowe Services Divsion
within the Minigt  of Labor. This study was an outgrowth of the 1985
Manpower Plan and recommended further expanion of the Ministry of
Labor's ability to place low skdll and seasonal workers. The recommendations
of the consultants were under consideration at the time of the last Bank
mission.
(ii) A Business IncubatorWlkshg. co-sponsored by UNDP and JAMPRQ,
was completed with a view to developing a demonstration incubator facility
and program to help new and early state and informa entrprises. The aim is
to minimize the project risk and costs of start-up of new businesses. Target
industries were identified with an emphasis on furniture and crafts, where it
was considered that the internal and/or extemal demand exceeds the supply.
UNDP has not, however, been approached for follow-up financing.
(iii) A local consulting firm was contracted to assess the FnaibiliyR of aL
lncetxve Scheme Aimed at Malcing ffe Arentceshi ENS=  Athve to
EmpoIersn The study offered several tax related options intended to
encourage the private sector to take more apprentices. The recommendations
from this study were under consideration at the dme of the last Bank mission
and would require legislative changes to put into place.
(iv) Te Sciene and     lob y Master PlN for the MiS  of Education is
intended to idendfy major impeiments to the uccessf  implementation of a
science and technology program in primary, secondary and tertiary schools.
The MOE believes the outcome of this study could be of direct relevance to
the Bank's Education Progamming and Student L1n Project (Education IV)
(2899-JM, which uppot development of a wunified currica" to bring up
the level in math and science for those at the bottom range, paricularly in
rual area. MOE also believes that the findings wil be rlevant to the
prmary and secondary level curricula master plan to be deveoped under the
proposed Social Development II projet.
(v)
idaXc was undertaken with the assinc of CARICOM consultants.
Development of vocatona matris was included in TAL I financing with an
emphasis on inprang      ren         ills in regular school curricula,
including under the auspices of HEART and CAST. This study will be
relevant for Education IV activities in curricula development.



-35-
IL MWM~TBY OFEDUCAI1QN
19.   TINANChL MANAUE                ASSISTANCE (S100.)he need for this
asstance was identified dunng supevision of the Bank's Third Education Project (2070-
JM). It complements the Unit Cost Study and other TA financed under the Bank's Education
Program Prparation and Student Loan Project (2899-M) and the line agency estucuring
and financial reform work begun under the Administrative Reform Program Project (2324-
J3. The study made recommendations to strengthen MOE's management of the education
system by assessing audit and accounting capabilities of local school boards and with speca
eference to regional offices and improving accounting at the school level and structural and
organizational weaknesses at the Ministry level.
20.    IAn dW.M.   kn keeping with TAL U's main objective of prviding
institutional development asnce to key institutions supporting the Government's stctura
adjustment program, the combination of TAL-financed consultancies, training, and basic data
development have resulted in a more capable and efficient statistical office, according to a
comprehensive Bank review of the Bank financed aistance. One of the main goals of the
sTATIN component of TAL Ii was to develop beter and more timely basic data that could
be directly used in improving national accounts estmates. TAL II funds continued work
begun under TAL I in th    sh_n an                faCI    ai     fBsia
istablshment (CRE) and deveopment of a comp    ive progam of indi and
construction aDDan rice aal=e1 for the national account serices. This work was carried out
by highly competent consultants to whom counterparts were assigned and who continue work
begun by the consultants.
21.  The main task of the =l consultant was to establish a base for STATINs economic
surveys by developing a central register of business esablishments. He dewloped surveys
and data collection for small esablishments - in the first round for business establishments
employing 10 or more employees and in the second for tiose employing less than 10.
Previously thee had been no rel mea  of the efects of small busineses on the economy.
The consultant also devdoped a aistical base on the growing infrmal sector. STATIN
staff have been trined to catty out follow-up wor  The inpotnc of the CRE is in its ue
as a sampling fame for the qurtly and annual STATIN economic sunreys. Efficient
sampling can now be caried out since the registe can be sorted by various charaterists
such as size and oder comc characteristics. This data is essntal for informed policy-
maing in such SAL-related areas as export pwmotion and tax rnue gener . Ihe
CRE is now firmly established, and updates are being done.
22.  The second long term statisdcian's ts  wee mainly related to impoving methods of
collecting basic data for use in quarterly natonal accounts estiats. He provided STATIN
advice on: (a) compilation of the production indices on a quartely basis; (b) compWilaon of



-36-
agricultural, industrial, and minerl production indices on a quarterly basis; (c) compilaton
of employment, wages and earning indices; (d) improvement of quality and flow of transport,
baning and insurance, and hotels and restaurants; (e) improvements to the import and export
indices and compilation on a quarterly basis; (f) the development of other price indices, such
as retail, wholesale and other relevant price indices; (g) analysis of income and price
elasticities of different income and expenditure groups; (h) preparation of projections of price
movements between various stages of distribution; (i) the commodities and services and
weights to be used in the new CPI based on the 1984 Household Expendiure Survey; fO
review of the labor cpu and designed a new two stage stified random sampling technique
for the labor force survey, and recommended changes in the questionnaire; (k) revision of the
sampling technique of the survey of establishments to improve the response rate and
recommended changes in the questionnaires to render them more useful to other STATIN
divisions; (1) review of the scope, coverage, and methodology for compiling index numbers
of mining and industrial production; and (m) the new Household Energy Survey conducted
on behalf of the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
23. Extensive =aininj of STATIN staff, both on-the-job by the above mentioned
consultants as well as during study tours (the US Bureau of Labor Statistics and Census
Bureau) have built a solid base of technically qualified personnel. Externa training for short
periods in areas such as surveys, national accounts, demography, production and price
analysis, measurement of wages and salaries, constucton price statstics, labor force
characteistics has been directly useful to STATIN. TAL II funds were used to purchase a
substantial amount of computer and cartographic equipment, mainly to replace outmoded
equipment purchased in the early 1980s under TAL I. STATIN staff have also been trained
at the College of Art, Science and Technology (CAST) and the University of the West Indies
(UWI) in courses developed by TAL II funded consultants. ReLated trwng in video
cassettes and computer software have also been acquired. Systems and Tinng consultants
successfuly set up and tWaned STATIN staff in the use of PCs and asssted PC users in
developing PC based systm  for the analysis of extnal migrtion, national accounts
processing, trade indices, and shipping and aircraft statcs. An interesdng and successful
program of establishing "mentosw in each division (regular user division members with extra
PC software training) has helped reieve some pressue on the limited numbers of computer
systems staff. This informal leaming/sharing system as well as the self-learning computer
systems unit set up by the consultants have befn most effecdve. About 75% of STATIN
staff trained with the TAL funds were retained as of October 1991.
24.   This taining combined with acquisition of taning and cartorphic equipment will
enable STATIN, at least in the short to medium term, to sstain the institutional
strengthening achieved under the TAL. It is less clear that staff with sistical and computer
sIdils acquired with the asistance of TAL II will remain with STATIN in the longer term.
Most STATIN staff tained under TAL II have remained, in part because they are bonded.
STATIN's Director acknowledged, however, that Govemment pay and employment policies
make it difficult to retain staff trained in markeable skills.



-37 -
25.  MONEY                 D SUPPLY STUDY ($30,M    An ovesea consultant
developed an econometric model m order to strengthen the capacity of BOJ to forecast and
project money demand and supply. The consultant trained counparsu and returned
intermittently to Jamaica throughout 1986 and 1987 to refine the forecast model for use on an
annual basis, install an effective exchange rate index in the model and prepare a final report.
In assssing this assistance the BOJ indicated that this effort, while appearing theoretically
elegant and statistically advanced, did not generate, in the final analysis, a means of trackdng
money demand in Jamaica with any degree of confidence. The results, therefore, have not
proven to be very useful. Instead, the BOI, largely by its own efforts, developed a simple
model which generates annual forecasts of money demand on the basis of projections of
inflation and the performance of real G.D.P.
26. In addition, TAL II was to support a collaborative effort by the Stadstics Institute and
the BOJ to conduct a flow-of-funds exercis. An internal Bank note covering this assistance
notes: "In the past, the Govemment has lacked a consistent macroeconomic framework and
has relied primarily on IMP and Bank missions for forecasting and consistency checks across
sectrs. institution of the flow-of-funds technique provides a simple but powerful analytical
tool which will help Jamaican technicians and policy-makes better undend the
inteelationships between fiscal, monetary, balance-of-payments and growth perfornnce.
Tne obective was to enable the Government to allocate scarce financial resources on a more
rational basis. SAL m conditionality required that a report be submitted: won the flow of
funds under the Borrower's national accounts for the years 1980 through 1982, together with
a progam for the adoption, as part of the Borrower's country economy plmning mechanism,
of a reporting system on the flow of funds of such accounts." The SAL m PCR rcorded
under the "Actions Taken* matrixthat this work was completed on time and to the
satisfction of the Bank. BDM did not, however, request reimbursement from TAL II, for the
consltant's services.
IV.             BA
27.    CUSTOMS INFORMATION SYST    CM   (Sl.9 MLLN               TAL II ofiginaUy
intended to finance consultants, training equipment and oveas cowurses, which would assit
all Jamaican Revenue Sevices (customs and excise, income tax, and inland revenue
collector), as part of prionty areas within the suctura adjustment proam to s engthen
revenue sym. Reform of Customs was essential to reduce the burden of inefficient and
inequitable procedures on importes, manue, and exporte. The objective was to
incre  revenue, expedite clearance of legitimate import and reduce competition from illicit
imports. The assistance was intended to complement the USAID financed tax rorm
proam. While the objectives of this component remained unchanged, in early 1986 the
Revenue Board rquested that the approach be raised so as to concentrate on the vital areas
of Customs and Excise Taxation by designing, develping, implemeting and trining staff in
the use of a coterzed Customs Information System (CIS), including the development of
Jamaica's new General Consumption Tax (GCMl) system.



- 38 -
28. The need for Customs reform was clearly understood. The Revenue Board were very
aware of the scale of inefficiency, and the frstaion caused by the procedures and practies
prevailing. However, the diagosis of the exisdng problems did not result in a clear and
well considered view of the fudamental pnciples which should govern the future
organization. A Danish semi-governmental firm was contracted to develop and help
implement the CIS. A master plan was produced by the consultants, and adopted by the
Revaeue Board in 1986. Niueten pnt of entry terminals were acquired for use at the
Customs House and other locations to record tax asments and collections, and a software
program was acqwred ("Powerhousew") and staff were trained to maintain the CIS. Cash
terminal and valuations systems were developed. However, between 1986 and 1990 many
important changes occunred. A plan of action for Customs was discussed in 1989, and
adopted in connection with TFSAL II (3303-JM). At about the sane time a report by
consultants funded by the Commonwealth Secrtat was adopted by GOJ. Responsibility
for management of Customs rform was transfred from the RB to the Ministry of Finance
(Revenue Protction Division), which subsequently formulated detailed plans based on ghm
later consultants recommendations. These consultants were retained by RPD as long term
advisers. However, rsponsibility for management of the TAL II financed consultants
remained with the RB, even though the RB no longer had input to the customs reform
proces. The computer develorent agreed in 1986 under TAL II was not significantly
amended to match the changes to the Customs plans for refom which flowed from the
reaalocation of   bilite, tie introduction of a separte group of consultants, and the
plan of action agreed for ;T sAL I.
29.   I is doubt  wheter the software dervelopment funded under TAL II will have
sgnificant residual value wh  the pros    of Cusms  fom  is completed. Apart frm two
sysems (cash terminals and valuaton) none of the systems developed have been adopted by
Customs. The failure of this exercise is attributable in part to the lack of liaison between the
vaious agencies concerned, and the absence of continuous COdinag ovrview of the
progress of th proect and the implicatons of the various changes on fte relevance of the
rmiginl ssms specification.
30.   The outcome of TAL II financing for the CIS, therefore, has been disonting. The
majority of systems developd during the ptoject have not been implementd by Customs.
urthermore, thes sysm  have been ovak  by changes in policy deriving from the
report of consultants eagWed  paately to rview the Cusoms Depmt and by the plan
of action se tly agred in the context of the TPSAL II loan. Prumably the reform
proce will be _suined by the Revenue Pwecton Depamt (RPD) of the Ministry of
Finance in accorne  with the plan of action. The viabity of the sytems developed under
TAL U would have to be radically rewd in the context of oeatonal expeie    of
changes made as the plan of acton is progively implentd. It is quesonable,
howeve, w    e the ystm  develped will be adaable to the procedures cuey
planned. Wholly manual procedures would not be desiable in the long tem, but the cost of
oping aproprae sstems is likly to be c        e



- 39 -
31.  Two of the lessons to be learned from the ( X failure are the need for strengthened
inter-agency codinaton (as indicated above) and immediate systems testing in a working
environment. In retrospect, rath  han proceed to softwae completion for the full army of
systems, it would have been more practical to ensure that the first systems developed were
acceptable to the ultimate user, the Customs Senrice. Subsequent softwae development
could have benefitted from realistic experience of earlier operation in the worldng
environment. As major changes occurred in the planning of Customs reform, the relevance
of developed software should have been rviewed to asses its current usefulness, and intat
nocessary changes to the contrat.
32.   GENERAL CMUEIO   TAX
tS780,000I. Assistance in developing software for enalcing the existing GCT module and
implementation support and trning was finmced under TAL II. This assistance was in
lkeping with the tax reforms supported under several adjustment operations, including
TFSAL I (2848-JM) and TFSAL 11(3303-M, which aimed at rationalizing the economy-
wide incentive system. The successful introduction of a GCT would eliminate a confusing
and relatively inefficient range of excise duties charged at a multiplicity of rates on a wide
range of diparate products, and reLieve exports of hidden tax burdes. The GCr will
replace a variety of existing indirect taxes and has a potntially high revenue yield, provided
revenue agents and auditors are propedy trained. The TAL financed work was performed in
ful conformity with these underying concepts.
33.  TAL II funds were available at a critical time to provide computer enhancement for
the introduction of multiple rto, for essential EDP tring, and for application and
impleentation support, to take accout legsative and other late stage changes. The same
firm that developed the CIS (see paa. 28 above) was contracted to: (i) modify the GCT
system to make it comptble with GCT legisaton expected to be enacted; (ii) convert the
existing Customs Import System from batch processing to on-line and inmlement the sftware
modifications to realie the interbce between the GCT Computer System and the Customs
Informaton System; (iii) updae the procedure manuals in accordance wtth provison of hie
legislation; and (iv) train about 220 staff in acounting, ait and compiance procedures,
systems procedure and in import/export procedums. In adition, the pmonnel of Fiscal
Saevices Ltd. (001's data poessing agency) wer trained in the use, managmt, and
devlopment of central conul data base and opeo  procurea. Many aspects of ths
exercise were innovative for Jamaica.
34.  The part of this exerce funded by the TAL was well prepared, and the timing was
critical. The Revenue Board, FSL, and Geneal Consumption Tax Office believe that the
TAL financing for this GCT training was timely and contributed to the avoide of potential
delay in the introduction of the tax. The roles and responsibilities of the OCT Commis
and the consultants were well undestood and the project work was completed in a timely
faion to meet the date of intoduction of the tax. The dectiveness of the system cnges
and e     nts cannot be vay asseL;d until they are seen to operate ecty and
wth reilience in the wing evinmt. Liwise, the effectiv   of the taining coudd



.40 -
not be asessed at the time of the final TAL II supervision/PCR mission, however, because
the tax did not come into force until the end of 1991. It is unlikely, however, that the
taining given at this stage will be sufficient to sustain effecdve tax control. It will need to
be supplemented over a considerable period of tim  by furter training to improve audit,
control, credibility, and am ent tochniques as problem areas are identified and experience
grows. Arrangements for funding this further training were not in place at the time of the
final mission.
V.  
35.  MODERNIATON OF INUSR  PROMM M .M  JAMPRO is a
statutory agency established in 1988 through the merger of three previous agencies
responsible for promotion of foreign direct investment in all sectors, the promotion of
exports, and industdal and commercial training. The objectve of ftis activity was for
JAMPRO to assist national manuers to become competitive under the low tarff regme
suppoed under several Bank adjustment operations, and thereby icreas expo. The
program focused on improving the efficency of producton and the marketability of products
in the subsectrs of tailor, upholstery, appar and sewn products, elecrois/engineern,
furnure and wood products, and footwear. Some of the consultan  were reruited with
the assistance of UNDP/UNIDO. The various colacie were highly regarded by the
sponsoring agencies and the industrial sectors involved. Problms of efficiency and
productivity in many secto  are likely, however, to require additional assistance.
36.   With the exeption of the Tailoring and Footwear/Leatr scts the project was
successful in achieving the specific planned objecives. The tailoring was trminated for lack
of practical sut from the industry, and the footwear because of the state of decline of the
industy at that tme. The  ectronic/engineering project succeeded in establishing high
quality vocadonal taining in a rfurbished Toolmakers Institute, with suficient student
intake to tak up the places on offer in each of the three yea  of the planned curiculum.
Ti is to be supported for a two year period by UNDP. The remaining progms
(upholstry, appare/emw products, funtr/Wood products) were completed to a high
sandard. A problem attendant of the success of thae effors is the extensiv scale of
identified pblem  (hcal, plant maintenance, producin methods, planning, layout,
training, Orga ization and mnaget). It is likly that problems on this scale wil have to
be resolved with   Abfurther long term cnsgny and busns investmnt. In
addition, it is unlikldy that count staff could  b etly emulate the high sadards
and eprience and tehnica skill displayed by the individual conultnts. This is not the
result of any coalepWd   misl_ .- I  on the part of the rsonsble Govemet
agecies or consultants. It reflects more the abence of a master crftsman tadition in
Jamaia. For this reason future oi are lily to be arranged on a four module
basi, to verify that the steps recommended in earlier modules have been completed before
prceedg  to the next.



-41 -
37.  A       g needs       covered substanially the same sectors as fth modenization
consultancies, and the findings are compatible with the outcome of that effort. The catalogue
of identified needs for large scale human resowurce development in each sector is so great that
priorities will need to be set in each sctor. Extnsive technical and management
development progams will need to be related to implementaion of the recommendations for
modenization and efficiency m each sector to have optimal effect. UNDP/UNIDO are
currendy providing asistance in this respect.
38.    PROMOTION OF THE INFOMAT               PROCESSI    INDUSTRY (7.000).
One of the most promising activities financed under the TAL II's JAMPRO program was in
the area of information processing for overseas markets, especially voice based services -
eg. 800 series phone service and telemarketing. This activity formed part of the effort to
stimuate and facilitte new employment and foreign exchange earning opportnities. The
ZITEX study identified the consequences that would flow from tariff changes in
telecommunications, and what technical restrucuring would asist further development. It
identified the mariet pospects for high sped infom on procesn and voice services. It
highlighted tie comparative advantages of Jamaica in language literacy and accuracy and the
critical di age of high transmision cost for the most promising sector in the 50/500
keystroke per page range. Telecommunication tariffs an insuc    are being re-
examined in the light of this study. TUhe G0 plans to sponsor a high tech business park
dvelopment in Kingston based on information processing service and close to the site of the
Govenment computing center (FSL) as well as severl institutions of higher leaniung such as
UWI and CAST. In ths connection TAL II also financed JAMPRO's partiipation in several
trade shows in potential markets: U.K., U.S. and Canada. It was not known at the time of
the last  ssion whetier the conats had yided clients for Jamaica, but the potential is
very promising for the development of export oriented services.
39.  The su    ility of the develoments which flow from the study depends on the
ability of JAMPRO and the tephone company (in assomato with AT&I) to atatr the
needed investment. The succes of the DIGIPORT entrprise at Montego Bay indicates that
the potental eists, partiary if the teeo mmunication arff and inastuc  is tailored
to economic  mison costs for the high volume sector of this market
VL 
40.                                                                         TheEN & AND TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE (S8m.m. The
objective of the TAL II asista    was to assist in identfying specific actions nessary to
achieve finacal arets established under SAL m. Since its ablishment AJ has required
subidies to maintain its viability, th TAL financed four long tem inteaional consultants
and one study. The consultants included: (i) an acing Deuty General Manager, who
worked with the Gneral Manager to develop comupart and was instrumental in improving
opaonal and financi petformance; (*d) a Reenue Accounting Adver, who reviewed and
evisod accounig procedur  and trained financial staff; (fid) a Quality Control Adviser,



-42 -
who insttud procedures to ensure that Al was accepted interatonally as a maintenance
organition; nd (Civ) a Technical Taining Mauger, who restrucured the aircft
aprenticeship progrm  and upgaded the related syllabus at CAST. The consultant
assignments have boen succeuly completd and counterparts have been trained and were
functioning independently at the time of the final TAL 11 supision mission. A Fleet
Expansion Study was also completed.
41.  The TAL I financed Acting Deputy General Manager worked with the senior
management of Ai to tsan counteparts and was instumental in improving AJ's opeational
and finandal pefornmance. He also advised Al in the preparation of its five-year stategic
plan form 1990-95. In accordace with reomna   made in this Plan and a cost
reduction study, a general sctuing of the organiadon at all levels was undertakn to
raionaie the functions and reduce stffing levels comm urate with te se of options.
A; has been successfil in renegotiatng its leases on the 727 section of its fleet, as asgreed
under the Pubfic Enterprise Adjustment Loan, and has used the equity generated to finance
its current operations. The airline made a meager opeatg  profit of JS1S,OO million in
1990 because of a decline in turism. However, in the absence of sfficient capitaliation
and a high debt ratio, AJ continues to be losing money. The GOJ has not been able to filfil
the equity requiements exessed in the Deputy General Manager's report to the AJ Board
on eoa      n of the company because of intentions to divest AJ.
42. The TAL II financed Revenue Accounting Adviser was also considered by Al to be of
high quality and his coutrpart beneftd  gifintly. The comnercial procedura
instituted with the help of this consultant to reduce the time-length of the line of credit
available to the travel agents though commcial ba  is firmly establshed and is also
beng used by other airlines opeting i Jamaica
43.  Two other te       conancies eped ebsh mainnance f ties and
tablished a aintenmace taining program. Thm    maintenane capbiies impartd by te
TAL consultant has enabled Al to be cerified to perform "CO type services on A300 type
acraft in Jamaica and hence bas reduced the costs of mainang the aircraft outside the
country substantially. The Ft  Expansion Study (1986-1995) provided a phased fleet
reqirement plan and  aret gowth tren  with a view tomaxindig car  financial
results. The study's findings have been used by AJ to pln its marketing sategy with
regards to traffic growth and arrange additiona aircraft leases, and was a crtical input to
AJ's 5 year scttegc plan.
44.  Whlde most of the work financed under TAL U i sustainable, a rest ri  of the
company in 1990 led to the laying off of some employees who h  gained skills through
countepart relationshls.;



.43.
45.                                                             The Jamaica
Telephone Company (JTC is die largest entity in the telecommunications sector and is
responsible for domestic seice. The overall financial position of the company was weak in
part because rtes had not been adjusted for several year. The President's Report for the
First Public Enterpdse Swctr Adjustmnt Opratdon (PESAL) (2849-JM) indicated that based
on a TAL II financed JTC Tariff Study a rvised tariff stuctr was to be implemented prior
to second hunche rdease. Condition for release of the second tranche included:
'eeomunications ub-jMt:  (a) a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank for
implementng the recommendations of the tariff study cunently being carried out by the
Jamaica Telephone Company shall have been furished to the Banl; and (b) arangements for
the leasing of the equipment used by Jamaica Boadcasting Corporation for AM tansmissions
and of the equipment used for the tnsmission of the morning televiion segments shall have
been finalized." According to the draft PESAL PCR, the JTC study financed under the
TAL was completed atilstorily. The adjustment to the rae stus were undaken
and the study was expanded by JCT managnt to cover other aspects of ognizial
restructuing as noted below.
46.                                       _
fhZs.X). In keeping with the Government's policy of divesdng public owned companies,
a special sertariat was establishd  within the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIB1)
to carry out valuation exercises and to arange for sale or lease of publicly owned compames
reerred to it by the (overnment.he action program on Divestment std in the
Preident's Report for the first PESAL (par. 48) indicat  that a condition of second tranche
release would be  ysatctory progress in achvement of the Governent's divestment
Pm    for FY87188, with completd divetment of at least J$1SO.O million of public
nterpre assets prior to second tranch release. A TAL financed local consultant produced
a pri n poicy prpol for publc entarprises and assited Goverment to implement
this policy, including coodinatin of the  suring of the Caribbean Cement Co. and the
pdvaon of the National Commercl Bank and Jamaican Brang Corpotion in
1986. The consua_nt also assisted in the divestment of the fish frming oeation at Spring
Plain and asdsed in the n atons for the establmt of a teeport facility in Montego
Bay, and   abli n of a debt swap  ft.
47.   While the cosltant made a ignificant contribution to the przation effrt, TAL
It funds we not used to stgte NMJ itself  rtialdy its ability to monitor financial
peom a   of enwpris) as foreseen in the TAL's President's ReporL Te consultant did
submit a plan for  t       the NMJ to provid the 0I with capcity to ove
investments. The Plan was neer implemented. However, under subsequent finncing from
USAID conslants hired under TAL II continued to assuit in Govement privadiztion and
strengtn NM's privatization unit wch is now fuctoning efctly.



48.                                _                                An overseas
banana specialist was employed short tm to offer technical advice to tre banana
companies owned in part by NWJ. SAL m second unche conditionaity ater waived)
included completion of a plan for reuctudng of the Banana Company of Jamaica Ltd. The
'action taken" annex of the PCR indicates that: "All non-marwketin activities of the Banana
Company had either been centalized in the Ministry (research and extension) or put up for
sale. The Banana Company was closed down in Mach 1985. Marketing of bananas was
henceforth done by the Banana Export Company, a public pnrvate joint venme company."
Assistance and advice was provided to this company through a TAL II financed NIBJ short
term consultancy. A TAL financed NMI consultant was also employed in 1985 to complete
work on a freshwater fish marketing study initiated under TAL I. This consultancy provided
valuable advice on the production and processing of freshwater shrimp by Aquaculture
Jamaica Lt. (AJL) and evaluated the North American market.
49.             Y OF ASSETS AD                     PUBLC
aSff.0001. In conjunction with past Government efforts to Mprove its capacity to mondtor
and supers public enterprses, a variety of ad hoc attempts had been made to develop a
listing and inventory of asset and liabilities of public enterprs  together with adequat
income statements. Lack of a comprehensive evaluadon, however, inhibited the
Govenmuent's ability to control the overall public enterprise deficit, to radonalize the scope
of activities of the public entprs sector, and to develop a longer term divestment strategy.
The President's Report for the PESAL indicates that a condition for second tranche rdease
was stsfactory completion of a PubLic Enterpe Inventory of Assets and Liabilities. Also,
th Goverment was to prepare a program that wud outine aons to be ta   for al the
public entities included in the inventory with regrd to liquidation, divestmt, and finenial
and managerial resu     for each entrprise.
50.   A TAL U financed local conultant word togedtr with the Anirive Staff
College to update a 1984 roster of PEs and Statutory Bodies (SBs) with a view to
tionalizng the sector by eiminating duplicatug and ovlapg functions. The draft PCR
for the PESAL indicates t the Inventy was comple0td and furnid   to the Bank,
togethe with the action progrm for future action for each entity.
51.   EoD SECURIIY SIUDY   12M    The Jamaica Commodity lT g Company
(JCTC) is one of the laest public entprises in Jamaica and is responsible for the
importaton of cerin basic foodstuf, phameutical, and au  b. The ICTC had
been utlized as a vehicle for subsidizing basic foo   either though cro subsidization
between products imported or by direct Central Govment subvent. The Proddent's
Report for the PESAL incate that pdor to rlease of the soond tanche of the PESAL, a
review of the pricing policy of the JCrC was to hv bee completed, including an
assessment of the impact of the poiocy on overall domesc agriculu  de t and a
determination of the most fisally efficient method of providing food subdi  to the pooreaL
Satsfactoy agreement wa also to be reachd on i   nt   of the reo             of
te stdy (see pam. 52 below).



-45 -
52.  The drft PCR for the PESAL indicates that the TAL E financed Food Security
Study, carried out by local consultants (repordng to the PIQJ), was submitted to the Bank.
After a number of adjustments, the study was finalized. The Bank's Social Sector
Development Project (3111-MJ) approved in July 1989, benefitted from the results of the
study in addressing "improved targeting of mulinational aid (mncluding the gradual phaing
out of food subsidies) and tightening of eligibility for food stamps". The TAL II financed
study also informed the Agriculture and Trade and Finance Adjustment Operations.
53.   SPIn following-up on work begun
under the above study, local consultants were contracted to help prepare the social well-being
program, which laid the basis for the Social Sector Development Operztion (311 1-3W).
Under the Seaga Government the Social Well-being program was intended to reform those
sectors of the economy which deliver vital social services and which provide for the more
vulnerable groups in the society. The consultants also prepared a report on the range of
beneficiaries of programs, nutritional benefits, efficiency and effectiveness of programs
targeted to the poorest and their costs and benefits.
V.M. AGRICULTUR
54.  PREPAR ON OF THE AGECLURAL SECTOR ADJSTMET LA
MSZ&). The ASAL objectives supported by the TAL included the following: (i)
improvement in agricultural pricing policies, by improving trade policies and by reducing the
scale of the Generalized Food Subsidies (GFS) program of the Jamaica Commodity Trading
Corporaton (JCTC); (i) adjustnut to agritura credit poLcies; and (iii) maintenance of
adequate macroeconomic policies, condstent with an efficient development of the agrcultural
sector. TAL II financed the serces of consltants who prepared six of the eleven workdng
papers on specfic policy areas that helped forn the basis for an Agricultural Policy
Framework Paper and the Bank's Agriculal Sector Adjustment Loan (3174-M. The
office of the PM coordinated the worL The papers included policy studies on the
agricultural sector institional framewk and support servces; an assessment of the demand
for and constraints on agriculturl creit; the identficatin of institudw-al, legislative and
policy reforms neded to stabilize, reclaim, revilalize and dedo   e hillside and watshed
areas; the identfication of important policy issues (mncluding institutional isu) with respect
to irrigaton and the formuaton of action plans to addr  the iss; and an analysis of
domestic marketg       ei s, including recommendations regading price controls.
55.  The immediate objecdve of infoning the prepration of the ASAL was met and the
loan was approved by the Bank's Board on March 6, 1990. The draft PCR for the ASAL
dated August 8, 1991 indicates that the Government undertook those actions agreed under the
loan, but that it was too early to asse the impact of the ASAL on the sector's and the
economy's actual perfnc.



-46-
56.   S                                                        This actvity
complemented the ASAL's objectdve of widening the distribution channels of the agricultural
Credit Bank loans to small farers. Under the auspices of the FAO, consultants were
employed to review the extension and rech systems, mcluding research agronomy. In
addition, specialists in livestock and dairy were employed. The loan also contibuted to the
financing of an ornamental horticulturist under and FAO Export Crops Project. The
consultant worked under the Marketing Division in the Ministry of Agriculture in
collaboaton with JAMPRO. All consultancies were successfully completed and the
agricultural research specialist made a significant contribution to the ction plan for creation
of an Agricultural Research Institution as a statutory body for consideration by the Ministry
of Agriculture.
Ex.  
57.   US$60,000 was earmarked for this assisnce at the time of the 1987 loan amendment;
however, only $9,000 was aually disbursed. A high level international consultant was
employed to make recommendations on converting the prcsent manual system to a computer
driven one, taling into account possible linkages to the Cambean Stock Exchange. This
assstance was orgily included in TAL H because of early hnkages to the proposed
TFSAL II conditionality, which was dropped before TFSAL U was approved. The report of
the consultant recommended several short term changes in the operations of JSE, but it
rmnained unclear wheter the volume of business of the exchange warted computerization,
or wat the cost mght be. In spite of these uncertainties, the ISE decided to proceed in any
cas with the automation of the Exchange in consulation with the US based Midwest Stock
Exchange, Inc. The PIOJ decded not to fund additional demonsraon and site visits and
1tFPs with TAL II funds, since it was felt that private sector funding would be a more
apprpriae vehicle for these.
X.                                  N   F
58.        M_              LI             _       One long-term intenatiol
consultant, with re t private sector experience in project apprisal and term lnding, was
employed to ait Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation, Ltd. (JECIC) in
etablishing and maintaining a system for TAFEX management. TAL I funds were also
used to spport JECIC's TAPEX promotion program, including exporters' seminars and the
production and distibution of information materias. In 1986 responsibilities for the TAFEX
wee tferred from JECIC to te Ex-IM Banl  Despite these efforts, the TAPEX never
becme operaona.
59.        AF  W3. 70.a . SAL m second tranche condility included mth: "A
rview of tie Borrower's technical assin   proam for eportes shall have been carried
out. The SAL m PCR  acdion takenmaix reorded that: tl thechical assist



-47 -
progam for exporte  ha been reviewed and endorsed by the Bank. The Fwnd (TAFEX)
has now been established, and its Board appointed and spplicadons are being rMedved, and
processed." The TAFEX was intended to finance direct TA to non-CARICOM Jamaican
exporters (manufacturers and farmers). The technical assistance was to have included
consulting servces for market reseach, tstig and development and for production, product
and packaging development, as well as limited quality-control equipment. Loan proceeds
were to have been onlent form the government to JECIC at an interest rate 3/4% over the
Bank rate to establish the TAFEX. These funds in tun wae to have been used to make US
dollar denominated subloans to exporters for TA at an interest rate equivalent to 2% above
the Government's onlending rate for a term of 4 to 10 years, including up to thre years
grace. Demand was estimated at about 10 loans per year, avenaging $80,000.
60. Despite an extensive publicity and information campaign, which began in September
1985, by September 1986 there were few expressions of interest and no drawdowns
occred. Applications received did not meet financing crtena. In hopes of expediting
utilization of the TAFEX, the Financial Sectary suppored Govrnment assumption of the
forein exchange risk and introduction of a 'grant" element, i.e., reimbursing exporters a
predetermIned peentage for unsucessful venture, and introduction of an 'integated
approach to    otig exporters who had to approach the Ex-IM Bank with seprate
request if they also required funding for raw material, equipment or or types of financial
or technical assstance.
61. Howeer, the above mentioned changes were never effected and, when the situation
remaed unchanged over the next twelve months, the Bank poposed and Govenment
agred at the TAFEX be canceled. In presenting te core s ig  amendment to the
Ba's Board in October 1987, it was noted that: 'The demand for the TAFEX has been
consably less than epected largdy due to the avilalit to Jamaican exporters of
similar credit faciLities on  i y   more favorble terms: only $270,000 bave been
disbursed or are commiedagainst the TAFEX consutant seri.es/promotion catWoy. lhe
Govenmet wishes, therefoe to cancel the TAFEX and use the remining US$3.3 milLion to
finae priorit assace in spport of five ajwuent reated opeions.  The amendment
was aproved and the funds wre realocated.
XLREOMADOGA
62.    _                                 MA00)  SAL M soond wanche
conditionality includd: Progress in carrying out the Boower's  mini aive  m
program, as a d beween the Bower and the Bank,  hall have been made. The Report
to the Bank's Board on SAL m 'actns Wa' rorded that: 'Excilent progress has been
made in carying out e adini     n reform program and the progam is on target.'
Stps ta   include the omleon and adon of a prgmm to resrue          the Miity of
Fnan., the rna    of peonnel management practces, reducton of the p



-48-
bacelog, preption of a program budgeting rysm to be istaled n two mnstris in
FY1985/86. A long term expiate senior public adnion specialist was hired under
TAL II to assist in the establis t, staffing, and policy orieation of the ARP, and
continued though 1987 with TAL II fnding to advise the Executive Directorn for Civil
Sevice and Financil Management Refon. Theraftr this consulancy was financed under
the Public Administaon Reform Loan (2433-3W.
63.    ASSIAN    TO THE ADMSTRATV  REFORM
PR_PARATION OF AlP I (S19 hMILO , In recommending reallocation of the $3.6
TAFEX, the Board recommene the following with respect to the ARP I support:
"The Government plans to introduce computer-based information systems in the area
of Financial and Human Resource Manaemt, as part of the stucural adjusmnt
process, suported by the . D ed implemtation plans have been drawn up for
ControLership and Accounting, Budgeting, Trasury and Supply in the Ministry of
Finance and Planning; and Human Reces in the Ministry of Publc Sevice.
Howver, the loan (2423-JM) amount is not sufficient to complete the inlation and
computrzation of these integratd sysm. Additiona assia    is also required to
prewe for the second phase of the process.
The Govnment's ompeiatio propoal was reviewed by a series of nissions
which took place between Deoember 1986 and June 1987 and was found to be well-
defined and tecically sound. Most paru of the ingated financial system are
xpectd to be opeaton  by June 30, 1988. Once completd, each of Jamaica's 19
Ministries and Dear      will be lind togeth  with the Ministry of Fimance in a
way that the entie annual fiancia cyce-from budget prepartin thrwgh t  final
clsing of the yea-end accounts- will, for the first ime, be under the discipline of a
well-desIgned, accuoe and timely compuIzed financial manageme_ t system-. Te
Human Resour   Manaemet Inforation System will provie th Govment with
accuate, dmely and    sble data on its public service employees in order for an
efective, computzed payro and pe      on system to be i led as part of Il.'
64.  Thus, the initl intent for the use of the raocated funds was: (1) to complete the
inrton of a peformanCe budge_t  stem in the reman Govenment entities; (2) to
install a cmutdesized finacl MIS and human resource hMS based in part on the new
budgetng sys     and (3) to prepar a Second Adm        Refm Poect aog the lines
of the original pojc The initial decisions u to the use of these fd calW  for the fundn
of the insalladon of two computezed m n mIt informaton systems to carry fowad the
modizaton and restcun of the financialmgU emen system and the humn resource
management system under L. Armximatey   $1.3 million was to procure aN  insll the
FMIS and ERMIS systems, and $600,000 wa to  pport the prep ari  of IU. How   ,
substil alteron in the intaded use of tme funds oured a the reut of suevision
missons In nDecember, 1987 and May 988. As a rest of these two missin, a drmatic
shift ooued in the Unk perceptio of how suppot for the AdmInistraIve Refrm



-49-
Progamme ought to be utlized. While seveal evaluatos and prgre  report oni the I
(Glaessner, 1987; Abramson, 1988; MacKinson, 1988) suggest posiive prog   in achieving
reorm goals, an alteMative set of Bank evaluations (Kivanq, 1988) and mission BTORs in
late1987 and early 1988 (Ono, 1987 and 1988 BTORs, and Aide-Memoire, May, 1988)
suggested a much less positive perforIance of 1. In parcular, Bank criticisns focused on
the overly ambitious agenda of I (resultng in the falure to complete key refoins needed),
an ad bm approach to aistance by consultants to individual entities based on the perception
of the lielihood of intoducing changes ather thn a master phn, the inapr  of
the budgeting and financial m em t pgram that was bei  implemented under hie
pioect at the time, the in_aprraes of the sategy for compute , and the need to
refocus attention on key management functions, especially those related to integrted
financial management systems.
65.  With regard to the pforance budgeting system as proposed and in the process of
impleentation, the Bank reviews proffered the judgement that these were tochnically
incomplete and inapoie for Jamaicn icumsnc, particularly with the absene of
appropriate pefonnance indicators and the failure to link budget clifi    to a
functional bais that would inform budget, acoounting, and auditing needs. With regad to the
financial management system more broady, the argument was that there was an absence of
an integrted approach which could be subjected to effectve computeri-ed integration.
Finally, the Bank posiin suggested a clear shift away from use of funds for the human
resource ngemet dimension earier contemplad for the use of fnds. The end result of
these changed persectives within te Bank led to an alteration in the approach to the use of
funds, non-continuation of the extant advisry team, and a more focused use of interim
financing and preparation for a financiagem  tprojecL some $700,000 ws to be
reoriented to support these new consultanles, $$S00,000 for asuring continuity in
comuerizig line  miniseria lnks, and the rmaning $700,000 for the design of the
financial management system to be implemented under the proposed Fnancial M-gemet
Progam loan. While this shift in redesgn may have been war-anted from a teca
pepecte, the shift to an almost exclusive focus on cosultancies for tchnical asisnce in
financial management and computerizaton led to significant ficton in BakGOJ reatons
and substntial delays in project implemenn. The earlir goals of installation of the
computerized Stems in line with existing ilentation plans and in accordance with the
effort to alter th rmning 20 budget entitie to a performance budgetg system were
abandoned.
66.  Te  edign of the budget  system and the focsed emphas on the prpation of
a financial management project becme the new thn   for the ue of remnng fundL Thus,
insllon of e compuiu MS  was not carried out with lo  funds, and most of the
renmining nesur   were utzed for con is to redesn the budging sysm and the
computer needs for the financi met project. Ths shift in proe  purpose resed
in mlementation dedays and a lengthy period of inawvity or sowed activity. In adition,
the d     aon  to redexn the purpose of interim finacing and loan ppt  resdtod
in very labor intensive staff suevisio for the next two and one half years, such that pre-



a      . 1         .          .
I      iui.....i.   p      *.I1I
I.~ ~~~~ .If
CL ~ 0  ij  
co~~~~~~~



- 51 -
ATTAClMENT
Project Completion Report
for
Technical Assistance Loan 11
World Bank
Prepared by
Maxine A. Hnry.Wlison



- 52 -
CAIS           CaWparative Advantage Incentives Study
CIS            Customs Information Systms
CCC            Caribbean Cement Company
FAO       -    Food atd Agricultural organixation
GCT       -    General Consumption Tax
G6J            Governmnt of Jrmaica
HEART     -    Huaan Employment and Resource Training
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
JAMPRO    -    Jamaica Investment Promotions Limited
JIDC           Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation
JEiC           Jamaica National Investment Corporation
IPCC           Manpower Co-ordinating Committee
MCB       -    National Commrcial Bank
xBJ       _    National Investment Bank of Jamaica
PIOJ           Planning Institute of Jamaica
RADA           Rural Agricultural Development Authority
STATIN    -    Statistical Institute of Jamaica



-53-
IMonUv  smau  or  uCy OON an=   an ZCNCL
AaBsUin  ULOAN 11 (I33DL
This summary contains a synthesis of the main findings
of the evaluation of the Technical Assistance Loan 11 (TAL
II - I8RD)
The suumary is presented under the following
subheadings:
1)   Introduction
2)   Objectives of Loan
3)   Project Preparation, Design and Organisation
4)   Project Implement including predictable and
unpredictable risks
5)   Sustainability
6)   Lessons Learnt
a.   _ntrodzSIen
The agreement for the Second Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL $I) from the IBRD was signed on April 12, 1985. The
original agreement included five beneficiary agencies. TAL
II was a sequel to TAL I designed to provide 'mergency
injections' for short-term studies and management audits of
public enterprises. Institutional development was,
therefore, only a secondary component of this project loan.
TAL II was specifically conceived to help the
government of Jamaica inplement, monitor and sustain its
structural adjustment efforts. Specifically, it was



- 54 -
designed a) to help to improve financial and managerial
perforawnce of JAmaica*a Revenue Services, capability within
Air Jamaica Limited and b) to strengthen the Planning
Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ), the Statistical Institute
(STATIN) and the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ).
The loan financed a total of fifty four activities within
the above named major beneficiary agencies.
The loan should also have funded a facility to provide
financial and technical assistance on favourable terms to
exporters and to undertake a study to reorient the
incentives system. These subprojects were eventually
discontinued.
The original allocations under TAL II were:
PIJ - US.$5.4m
JECIC - U.S.$4.5m
Due to the low level of success of the JECIC Project in
1987, PI0's allocation was increased by U.S.$l.4m,
providing the latter agency a total allocation U.S.$6.8m.
Based on this increased allocation to the PIOJ the Ministry
of Agriculture and JAMPRO were identified as two additional
beneficiary agencies.
2.   Okieotbve
The major components of the project were in the areas
of institution-building, export promotions and human
resource development.



55 -
Consequent on this, the project had the following
objectives:
a)   To help government improve its planning and admi-
nistration of externally financed technical
assistance.
b)   To help improve financial and managerial
performance of key government agencies.
The following elements were identified as intrinsic to
achieving these objectives:
i)   Increasing domestic savings through improved tax
revenue and public enterprise revenue generation
and reduced government expenditures.
ii) Strengthening and expanding non-traditional
exports through direct technical assistance to
exporters.
iii) Improving balance of payments through expansion of
exports.
iv)  Increasing institutional capacity in particular of
institutions executing or important to the
structural adjustment effort.
The matrix in Table I presents an analysis of the
subprojects. This analysis indicates a consistency between
the intervention strategies chosen and the goals of TAL II.
The organisations in which interventions took place were
strategic to the execution of the Structural Adjustment
Process (SAP). The policy instruments selected to carry out



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Obi ativa  of IntervetAnt - tI
-ational
4p="    ancourago  =rovo  LigRationali-                      Planning    Enhance 
*prveo    Encourage   Znprowe      Tightaned   zation of                 Increase    Capabiitty  Institu-
1~ad  and P.2. Bairnl  Xnntive   Rv. Col  Public                        coapetiLti  (Private    tional
Fiscal    or Saving   and          tlon Tax    Investment  IncentLves  no" of        Public       strahten-
&20mntL                J    1mAetimltv    ei _  aAReLgx  Pro.  for xEL ort S                      ______
' Scon. and
-cost
.tehical         t
Cop "ePt-                                                                                                                   %A
p A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Airlarannin
*  _lt Jauic                                                         //
*    tin                                                                                               .                 I
ev*en                                                          I            I                                         ,     '
Board
' 513                           /                               -.    I                                     I            I
Moderniza-
tLon of In-                   I .                                                           /             I      .
Agrilu l                      I           I                         JI   .
sector Loan
*'h3(ITKI)          I                        I                                                              I ./  



- 57 -
the interventions were also appropriate, given the wider
objectives of TAL II.
3.  iRocogt iren&rat on,. Desia  and Oranisation
The planning for this project commnced towards the end
of 1984. The actual selection of the beneficiary agencies
took place prior to the beginning of the project and was
based on joint discussions between the IBRD and the
P10W/Government of Jamaica.
The Planning Institute of Jamaica was assigned
the role of co-ordinator and facilitator from the beginning
of the project. Through TAL II, the PIOJ was slated to
obtain techu lcal assistance to systematise and improve its
freestanding technical assistance capability. The local
(PIOJ) counterpart to the technical assistant consultant was
in place by November 1985.
The P10J's role entailed establishing contacts with
agencies and attempting to obtain from them some definition
of their technical assistance needs. Some beneficiary
agencies were of the view that with a stronger technical
capability, the PIOJ could have played a more definitive
role in the client agencies' project design and preparation.
This input should have been at the level of advice to
agencies on the options available to them. In addition the
PIOJ could have assisted with development of more precise
terms of references and realistic time-tables.



- 58 -
The delays in the start up of projects in sone agencies
resulted from the difficulties experienced by the PIOJ in
obtaining from these agencies proposals which were
compatible with tho torms and conditions of the loan.
Further many of the agencies aseed to have experienced
difficulties in translating their organisational needs into
actionable project elements.
In terms of the subprojects, some of the beneficiary
agencies expressed dissatisfaction with the specific areas
addressed by the project. The agencies were of the view
that the Bank's policies and terms and conditions of this
loan led to a preference of project elements which were not
necessarily the priorities of the bezieficiary agencies.
Some agencies expressed the view that the project (as
distinct from programm) approach limited the efficacy of
their overall institutional development process. The PIQJ's
interface with beneficiary agencies included the provision
of written guidelines together with on-going clarification
of the project procedures. Yet many of the agencies admitted
that they only understood these through a trial and error
process.
In the main, there was the view that soveral of the
activities and beneficiary agencies selected in this project
were crucial to achieving a coherent approach to the
structural adjustment needs of the country. However, the
failure of the TAFEX project reduced the integrity of the
total package, both in terms of the capacity to address



- 59 -
sustainable structural adjustment.
A very positive aspect of the design of the TAL II was
the explicit attempt to link this t-chnical assistance
project with other similar or coiplementTry projects being
undertaken by other multi-lateral or bi-lateral agencies.
This was important in providing continuity and coherence in
the institutional development process of the beneficiary
agencies. This should have assisted in thereby reducing
overlaps, duplication and conflicts caused by such
interventions.
There has, however, been a negative aspect of this
collaborative/linkage approach. This relates primarily to
the subsequent attempts to evaluate the outcoms and impact
of the TAL IX. A few agencies have found it difficult, in
some in tance, to disaggr gat the activity which
discretely resulted from TAL II and have, therefore, been
hardpressed to provide a critical evaluation of its impact.
4.  Zmais±at.lmmnLsE
There were many variances between the planned and the
implemented. These were in the content of the proposal and
the achievement of stated implementation deadlines. Some
beneficiary agencies contended that many modifications were
important to ensure that the technical assistance
interventions in their agencies were effective and lasting.
For other agencies, changes in planned interventions were
caused by the dynamim of the Jamaican enviroment and the



- 60 -
need to ensure the relevance of interventions.
All attempts were made to have consultants and
counterparts assigned at the very start-up of projects. This
meant that some consultants had to be engaged very quickly.
As a consequence, there was sometime inadequate time in
which to recruit suitable persons. Some agencies did not
seem to have made adequate arrangements for skills
transfers. In some instances, such transfers would have
required formal means of transferring knowledge.
Procedures for nre=aration of terms of references,
contracts 2etc. were often long and tedious. Generally,
there were delays in getting responses from the Bank and in
project implementation. On some occasions, this reduced the
timeliness of proposed technical assistance interventions to
soje beneficiary agencies and reduced the overall efficacy
of the subprojects. The PIoJ was seen as being particularly
helpful in assisting agencies in complying with these
procedures.
The guality and nrofesgional cogmetence of project
consultants varied. There was also variability in their
willingness to transfer knowledge to their local
counterparts. Several beneficiary agencies were of the view
that foreign consultants engaged by their agency was
reluctant to be guided by local counterparts. This the
agencies saw as a severe shortcoming, given the evidence
that many overseas consultants were not conversant with the
local environment.



- 61 -
The PZO7 exprienced c ninuina diffiaulIX in obaiin
Xr=s from the project beneficiaries  This delayed the
disbursement of funds and, ultimately the implementation of
project activities. Benficiary agencies claim that this
was due to too many and too complex procedures of the World
Bank.
In terms of the  _tusAiaryLZmcilJtntory.rle 91&y2g
bv th PUIO, the management of the technical assistance
activities was very decentralised, with the client agencies
being responsible for their day-to-day implementation and
decision-making. This included client agencies drafting
terms of references, recruiting and selecting consultants
and ordering equipment. The approach taken by the PIW0 was
consistent with the terms of reference of the Loan.
The Technical Assistant Consultant to the PIWJ was to
hve been responsible for putting in place certain monitoring
and planning systems.. This was not done. Generally, the
PIWJ's appraisal of this consultant's competence and
expertise in the required areas has been less than
favourable.  (Unfortunately, neither the consultant's report
nor the comments on this by the Head of the Division (1986)
was available for this consultant's perusal).
The officers of the P20J are of the view that the role
required of the Institute in the implamentation of TAL II
was well within the capability of the organisation. However,
the full capability of the PIOJ was never realised due to
some confusion about the responsibilities and output of the



- 62-
overseas consultant.
In summary the PIOJ played a satisfactory intermediary
role. However, its limited technical capability and role in
decision-making did not always allow it to be of maximum
benefit to beneficiary agencies.
The implementation of the project highlighted some
risks - both predictable and unpredictable. These could be
summarised as follows:
1) Tardiness in activity identification and sub-
project design due either to institutional
incapacity or poor understanding of the parameters
of the TAL It project.
2) Misunderstanding or misapplication by the
beneficiary agencies of the lenders rules,
procedures and regulations.
3) Incapacity of beneficiary agencies to spend
allocated funds effectively and an a timely basis.
4)   Discontinuities in personnel, prograes and
priorities of agencies due to changes in public
policy emphases, political regimes or general
policy environmental needs.
5. En.a4,,ahdltL=
The level of sustainability will depend on the clarity
of the design of the sub-project - how clearly defined the
problems have been and how consistent are the potential
interventions with alleviating of the identified problems.



- 63 -
Further where ther has been timely testing of new systems
the necessary revising of system and persons trained, the
project will have a greater chance of sustainability. These
indices of sustainability can be related to agencies as
follows.
i)   Air Jamaica         -  Problems seemed to have
been clearly identified and
remedial elements
appropriate. Trained
counterparts-but at least
three have left agency.
Adaptability of systems not
adequate hence limited
capacity to respond to
environmental changes.
ii)  Min. Of Agri.       - Problem identification
seemed too unspecific and
amorphous; high staff
turnover limits
sustainability of
intervention.
iii) Planning Institute  -  T/A - no transfers;Nanpower
of Jamaica           - training - limited-
original counterpart no
longer employed to agency.
S=XE - minimal if any
transfers;
commodity  nzma i  -
some technology transfers
primarily through overseas
training.
iv)  JAMNRO              - Transfers directly to
clients in sectors;
operating manual prepared.
v)  STATIN              - Training & skills transfers
despite some staff turn-
overs: Latter addressed
by on-going training.
vi)  Revenue Board       -  Limited expertise within
agency itself; system
tested but only minimally
on-line;



- 64 -
Many of the sstems which have been established have
high foreign exchange maintenance requirements. This ranges
from updating software and hardware for computers to
purchasing oversea journals etc. Difficulties in obtaining
GOJ budgetary allocations for these could hamper
sustainability. (Examples - STATIN - computer applications:
Commodity Forecasting - data bases).
Continued high staff turnovers in these agencies will
have serious implications for sustainability. Salary
increases under the Administrative Reform programme have not
assisted to any significant extent (eg. STATIN).
In some instanc, the activities introduced through
the TAL II prograe have been accepted system wide and are -
integrated into the culture of the organisation. (STATIN;
AMr Jamaica's Bank Statement and Maintenance Systems).
In agencies where there are on-going training
programmes, testing and adaptation of these systems (eg.
STATIN, Air Jamaica) it is likely that there will be more
sustainability.
o6  LS aM
a)   Many of the needs for institutional support and
structural adjustment of public sector agencies
are not best met through technical assistance
loans of the nature of TAL It   Private sector
agencies are not interested in borrowing to
undertake institutional development.



- 65 -
b)   There needs to be more realistic planning and
projection of the range and scope of activities
which beneficiaries can effectively and
efficiently implement within the designated time
periods and with the allocated funds.
c)  Beneficiary agencies require technical assistance
and advice in designing their proposals.
d)   Nore tin  needs to be taken in the recruitment of
consultants. An ongoing evaluation needs to be
done of their capacity and ability to transfer
technology. Failure to achieve this should be an
explicit condition for the termination of their
contract.
e)  More rigorous and analytical documentation of the
proJects needs to be done on a continuing basis
during the life of the projects. This will reduce
the likelihood of obtaining superficial assess-
ments for project completion reports. There needs
to be more shared responsibility and information
about the project activities at the agency level.
This will minimise the information gap, in the
event that the responsible officer leaves the
agency.



-66-
1.0
1. 0     ZEUS? Ag DfSION
*1 I Ratonal* ani DackeURou
Studies undertaken by the World Bank and other multi-
lateral and bi-lateral institutions indicated that non-
traditional exports could play an significant role in any
expected economic recovery. In the past, any growth in
Jamaicafs export trade which had taken place was primarily
in the CAICOx market, with only minimal increases in non-
Caricom exports. The diagnosis was that the major
constraint on the  anufacturing sector attaining growth in
exports was bias of incentives towards the domestic market
and away from exports.
1.2 Qkiaalrs.as
The broad objectives of the interventions in this
Division. were to begin to reorient the manufacturing sector
towards export.markets.
Theco.ponents of this intervention weret
a)j  Comparative Advantage and Incentives Study
*   :  .      b)   Comodity Forecasting
*        c)   Cost Structure of Manufacturing Study
The objectives of each component were as follows:
*         ~~~a)   euaativ  Adrtaae and Incentiveg Study
* .    .            (i)  To examine the impact of existing Jamaican



- 67 -
zad CARICOX incentives on productive
activitie  in Jamaica in order to support
Governments' policy of trade liberalisation
under the Structural Adjustment Programe
(SAP).
(ii) To identify with more precision probable
effects of these policy changes upon
manufacturing and other economic sootors.
b)   cgmaiA.t.y.xsegaaZna
(i) To develop in-house analytical capability to
monitor and analyse world commodity markets
and their implications.
(ii) To collect information on global, marketing
behaviour, repackage and redistribute this
information.
c)   Cost           of Manufacturing Study
(i) To assess cost and individual components in
manufacturing process for specific subsectors
(eg. food, agro-industry) and for individual
products within sctors.
(ii) To identify the impact of the following on
total cost.
-    indirect taxes
-    changes in interet rates
-    changes in exchange rates, labour
costs etc.



68 -
(iii) To design and create a data base on a
micro-computer which will produce costs for
selected product products.
In summary, the overall objectives of these components
would be:
(i) To provide information to redesign trade and
industrialisation policies to foster more rational
use of resources, faster economic growth and
higher employment levels.
(ii)  To analyse Jamaicas' incentive system and
international competitive position.
(iii)  To make proposals for policy reforms designed to
orient production toward Third Country export.
(iv)  To identify products in which Jamaica has
comparative advantage.
1.3  Relevas- to WiAer Obtectives of rM  e!
The camponents of this subproject are compatible with
the wider technical assistance (TAL XI) programme. They
address aspects of a subsector (viz, manufacturing) which is
critical to any Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP).
1.4 Sub-Projgct Damia
1)  Bach component had its own substantive design.  In
the case of the Comuarative Advantaae and
Incentive tIUdY (CAI*, it was proposed that a



- 69 -
unit should have been established in PIOJ for
technology transfers and for on-qoing monitoring
of the programme. A foreign consultant and a
local counterpart were to have been engaged to
undertake an  lhiashuaent u-=v   This survey
would provide data on a nix of industrial /
manufacturing establishments. These data were to
be inputs into the design and testing of policy
proposals.
The local consultant was required to draft
questionnaires and conduct the survey. The foreign
consultant would develop computer methods and
instruct the PTOJ personnel in their use. The
strategic approach which should have been taken
was to have been a consultative one between the
local and foreign consultants.
The specific outputs should have facilitated:
(i)      Building a data base
(ii)     Monitoring performance of the economy
(iii)    Undertaking policy appraisal.
2)   The 5132 QL.Eit llFSreast     component involved
engaging two enior level specialists and the
training in community forecasting of the head of
P10O's unit at the World Bank/UNCTAD. Books,
journals and other data sources were to be used in
building a computer-aided information system.
During the design stage of the CSQgjt



- 70 -
FgXucMrtin  component, there were shifts in
thinking. The initial proposal involved providing
Jamaica (PIOJ) with its own capability for
evaluating ipternational trade and industrial
policy as the GOJ wanted independent information
on commodities.  The 1BRD, however, suggested a
re-thinking of this approach, which in the Bank's
view was too complex.
Discussions between PIOJ and Commodity Boards
indicated that the latter had data which could be
used in system. It was a question of making this
data more accessible by systematising its storage
and retrieval. The proposal was reviewed,
consistent with these findings.
3)   The Cost Structure of Manufacturina studi involved
the use of a local consulting firm to do a field
survey. The data from the survey would build a
computer data base to be developed by the firm.
PIOJ personnel were to be trained in the use of
this data-base.
Initially, the PlIO and the Bank had different
concepts of the objectives of the study. The Bank
had the ipression that the study was being
carried out as a part of the Tariff Reform
Programme. The PIOJ on the other hand saw the
project as being critical to assessing the major
components of the cost competitiveness of local



- 71 -
products in comparison with products of
competitors.
The absence of clear Conc _Mal 2h_ectives of both
the cO2noditv forecastina and Cost Strauture of
Manufacturing Study delayed start-ups of these
components.
1.5 1 1. ..nkaZiti
One of the major difficulties encountered in the
implementation of the S M  was the low level of responses
from establisa.ments included in the sample. This was
primarily due to a change in the policy environment, given
the government's decision to immediately (1985) remove
quantitative restrictions. As a consequence, many members
of. the manufacturing subsector became disenchantment, and
reneged on their original undertaking to participste in the
survey.
Another drawback to obtaining satisfactory responses
was the view by some members of the subsector that the
information being requested was sensitive and, therefore,
could not be unconditionally disclosed. A third factor was
that many of the establishments did not have the data in the
form required by the survey.
The opinion, however, was that 'despite the
shortcomings, sufficient data was gathered in conjunction
with personal visits... to warrant a calculation of
effective production rates'. (p. 160 - Appendix to final



- 72 -
report).
The borrower/client agency was of the view that their
foreign consultants did not maximise the opportunities
presented through this project because the latter did not
draw on the client agency's knowledge of the local
situation. Hence, certain decisions which were taken were
based on flawed premises. The local consultants concurred
with this viaw.
zs:titut   XlsraLqn nts
The unit which should have been benefitted from
technology transfer was not established.
f 3oXait
A project manageress was identified from early in the
project   The project manageress functioned as an
administrative assistant rather than as a local counterpart.
She, therefore, benefitted only very minimally from any
technology transfers.
The data bank which should have been built through the
interaction between local and foreign personnel was not
done, usina the identitied methodoloU.
The final draft report which was submitted was
favourably reviewed by the Bank. Local consultants were
asked to coement on this report. Their proposed
modifications were submitted. (The consultant doing the



- 73 -
project completion report was not able to locate these
comments)
The policy r commndations contained in the report were
accepte  with some sodifications by the governmnt. These
recomendations referred particularly to the Government's
tariff reform programes  In general, therefore, there has
ben a close relationship between recmmendations and the
measures implemented.
In terms of Cost Structure of Manufacturing, the survey
has recently (1991) been completed. The local consulting
firm engaged to do this job, has been positively evaluated
by the PIOJ. The consultants also designed a software
programme. P1T0 personnel have been provided with hands-on
instruction in the use of this programe. This has been
used for the design and implaemntation of the data bank. It
is also projected that this system will be of additional use
in planning and forecasting.
In the case of the com-rity Porecastina component,
three officers of the PIOJ spent some time at the IBRD's
offices in Washington examining issues of international
trade. Some reservations have been expressed about this
observation visit as the scheduled activities seemed to have
provided esposure and = the anticipated training. Soe
PIOJ personnel subsequently attended courses in
international trade in the United Kingdom and in Geneva.



- 74 -
In the case of this intervention, there were no
consultants.
Software and hardware have boen received, tested
adapted and are now in use. Publications to be used as data
sources are also bp..ing received by the PXOJ* This additional
institutional capacity has allowed the PIOJ to play a
supplementary role in furnishing data on various
commodities. Such data includes:
a)   Providing Xnternational price data for comodities
b)   Updating inhouse agricultural data bases.
1.6 ymifina
The major variance was overestimating the response
rates to surveys. In the case of the CAIS, it was estimated
that there would have been a response rate of over 70%.
Ultimately this was below 60%* In the case of the Cost
Structure of Manufacturing Study, the anticipated response
rate was 70% and the actual approximately 52%.
In both cases the delay in responses resulted in the
targeted dates for activity completion not being met.
In the case of the CAIS the data did not yield much
information on the impact of various fiscal incentives in
Jamaica. This was one of the objectives of the original
subproject proposal.



- 75 -
In torus of policy recommndations, the  Anti-dumping
Legislation has not been passed up to the time of the
preparation of this report. This has been due to
difficulties in getting the relevant sectors to accept and
implement this proposal. Further, soe actions which have
been taken by other public sector agencies viz Bureau of
Standards-make the legislation of questionable urgency.
Other recomeations have boen put in place viz the
Tariff Rebate Schem, system of Fiscal Incentives.
1.7 3Jak
1)  Delays between the time of a proposal and its
implemetation can render the intervention less
useful than originally anticipated.
2    Changes in the policy environment will negatively
impact on a particular sector, henc making its
members less amenable to a technical assistance
intervention.
3) Lack of understanding by foreign consultants of
the realities of the Borrower's environment and
the reluctance of those consultants to be guided
by local counterparts can reduce the effectiveness
of an intervention.
4)   Data from subsectors/agencies may not be available
in a required form to facilitate forecasting or
the making of policy recommendations.



-76-
1 S
This is variable. In terms of data bases, these are,
for the most part, in place. However, some of the personnel
who have benefitted from training and technology transfers
have left the PIOJ. It is felt that the continued
functioning of the systems will benefit both subsector users
as well as planning entities. The level of confidence in the
data will b  determined by the availability of quality, up-
to-date inputs. There may be a constraint on this however,
given the high foreign exchange requirements for maintaining
journal orders and subscriptions which are the data sources
for these information systems.
1.9 Leamon Learnt
1) The PIOJ as the government's technical assistance
agency, must ensure that consultants understand
comply with the Government's policy directives.
2)   To ensure maximum gains from any technical
assistance intervention, the PIOJ has to play a
more decisive role of a technical advisor.
3)   There needs to be greater collaboration between
local and foreign consultants and between the
latter and local counterparts, if optimal benefits
are to be received from technical assistance
interventions.



- 77 -
1.10 Assn=
The major long-trm benefits of these components are
a) the increased capability of the PIOJ both in software
(including human competence) and hardware (computer
equipment etc.)
b) the anticipated enhanced decision-making capability of
both public and private sector through better information.
The weakness of these interventions are their
sustainability both because of inadequate technology
transfers, loss of trainod personnel and high foreign
exchange requirements to update software and hardware.
200       CJ ISUISYANCU  £ Pl
This subproject is now to be undertaken through an add-
on facility between the GOJ and the UNDP.
mi3m or 8uDRoJBC
3.0 NlYPOIER AND RPOLITION DMIISON
301 R"inuItL3 fmsXgKua
Manpower planning in Jamaica was assessed as
fragmented, leading to under-co-ordination of the
Jamaican labour market. While this situation
prevailed, there were high levels of unemployment, due
to the unemployed not having skills being deand ed on
the labour mrket.



- 78 -
3.2  Oblative of IatetrO ntionm
1.   To upgrade human resource and generation of
productive activities.
2.   To upgrade and coordinate P0's Manpower planning
and training and employment services activities,
eliminating duplicative efforts and increasing the
relevance and efficiency of its manpower related
services.
3.3 Relevnce t Jider Obiective. of YIC I         o
This subproject focuses on labour - a key component of
any structural adjustment process. The project would
facilitate technology transfers and enhance capability
planning and preparation of human resources.
304 _Vk==ieat  J.a
The project would have the following components.
(a)  Three s:le suxve. of approximately 4,500
establishments to determine industrial and
occupational composition of employment. These
surveys would also identify the mix of industrial
and occupational skills required by 1990.
(b)  Undating the base information available on labour
demand in both the public and private sectors.
(c)  Trainina 2f beneficiary agncy's staff in
preparation of a Manpower Plan and in methods and
procedure for monitoring country's employment and



- 79 -
skill development.
(d) Sedundancy Study
The following consultants were to have been employed to
for this subproject:
(a) Manpower Specialist
(b) Statistician
(c) Micro Computer Specialist/Labour Market
Information Specialist
(d) Vocational Training Specialist
The original project, documents provided for a total of
27 staff months. This was subsequently extwnded several
times with the Manpower Specialists' contract having a life
from December 23, 1986 to October 1991. (This consultant
was previously with the PIW through the support of the
Inter-American Developent Bank)
The deliverables specifically identified in project
proposal and terms of references were broadly defined as:
(a) Survey reports
(b) Manpower plan
(c) Transfer of technology
(d) Equipment
The terms of reference of the long-term
counsultant/advisor were broad, thus not always focussing on
the best use of the specific skills of individual.



- 80 -
305 zaiu1m.iLit1Za
The implementation could be categorised as follows:
(a) Preparation of Re"earch Documents and Policy
Analyse
(b)  Advice and Consultation
(c) Translating Concepts and research designs into on-
going permanent programes including improvesents
to manpower forecasting techniques and data bases.
Role of the PInina Xnstituk of 3a.aiga
The consultants,' terms of references were too broad.
The PIOJ could have made them more precise thus ensuring a
more effective use of his skills. Further there was the
continuous poor estimation of the time which he would have
needed to complete his assignment. New priorities were
repeatedly being added on to his original terms of
reference.
Xnatltutional Ars     t
Since 1989, the Population and Manpower Division has
effectively been a unit in a larger division which deals
with Social Policy. Prior to this it was a "stand-alone"
division. There are differing views on the impact of the
change in institutional arrangements on the implementation
of the intervention. one view is that with the merging of
Divisions the intervention received lose priority attention
from PIOJ



- 81 -
The head of the population and Manpower Division at the
timn of this intervention (1986) was the counterpart to the
Manpower Specialist. With the departure of this off icer, a
professional, who is not the Divisional head has been
assigned as counterpart.
fla1fral-
(i) Two Manpower Plans (1985-90 and 1990-1995) have been
prepared.
on the completion of the first of thse plans in
February 1986, a review was done by representatives of
both the private and public sectors. This included a
workshop with some of potential end-users. With the
completion of the review process in 1986, an
operational plan was prepared. This emphasised
possible collaborative linkages between relevant
wovernent ministries and agencies. Consultations were
held with the two core public sector human resource
agencies - Human Employment and Resource Training
(HEART) and the Ministry of the Public Service. These
agencies have indicated that the information provided
through the Manpower plan is of moderate usefulness for
their own planning and curricula development.
(ii) A SMpower Plannina cooinatina Committe (MPCC) was
established in 1990. The Committee meets quarterly and
includes som of the users of data and information



- 82 -
generated by the Unit. These and users include the
newly-establishad National Training Agency, JAMPRO
(Jamaica's investment promotions company) and the
University of the West Indies. The information and
planning through the NPCC is seen as potentially useful
but in need of disaggregation and presentation in a
=ore specific form.
To further institutionalise the linkages with users and
the provision of advice and consultation, a newsletter
is being published, with the first issue scheduled to
be off-the-pres in September, 1991.
(iii) The three surveys, which were a part of the design,
were carried out. The data from these surveys
subsequently formed inputs into the entire manpower
planning and policy analyses process.
In the case of the Rdundancy Study, there is a view
that it will have no imediate policy impact.
(iv) Zla.
Six members of the POJ Manpowei unit have been
trained. A critique of the training includes:
(a) Some of training done in-house by the Consultant
is nQ specific to Manpower Planning.
(b) Staff has multiple responsibilities which result
in their ng= always being available for training.
(c) The Consultant prefers to work on his own in many
instances, hence staff do not necessarily benefit
from handx-on application.



- 83 -
Twvo positive aspects of training which have wider
implications for enolm     t ranfer  and mn abllty
are:
(a)  On the initiative of the POJ, a commtmnt was
received from the University of the West Indios to
introduce a program in manpower studies  One
graduate of this course is now actually on the
staff of the Division.
(b) There has been wider training of personnel from
key user organisations. These individuals have
received some exposure to manpower and labour
market planning. The consultant has also written
speeches, seminar documents and acted as advisor
to various agencies.
3.6 Varmies
(i) A major deliverable which has to date n= been
submittd to the Division/PIOJ is the operating
manual and handbook. The consultant is to produce
this by the end of October 1991.
(ii) No technical reports on the sample (establishment)
surveys have been received. However, data
(sumumry) docuents wer  received.
(iii) None of the six members of the PI0J staff who have
ben trained have been equipped with &1 aspects
of wmanpower policy analysis, deand forecasting or
labour market information development. High staff



- 84 -
turnover has been identified as one reason for
this.
(iv) The agreement arrived at for provision of 4-5
scholarships to the University of the West Indias
has subsequently not been honoured.
(v) Equipsent for the proposed Manpower Unit is in
general use by the wider Division. The equipment
is used mainly for wordprocessing and M&
specifically for manpower planning and data
manipulation.
3.7 ESAUk
(1) ligh staff turnover reduces the numbers of
trained, experienced staff available to the PIW.
Once staff members receive training they become
highly marketable. The uncompetitive salaries
offered by the PIOJ operate as a push factor.
(2) The level of collaboration with end-users was
limited as agencies had their own priorities.
Therefore, the impact was not as widespread as was
anticipated.
(3)  The consultant's workstyle limited the extent of
technology transfers.
3eS  l        l11
(1) The production of the handbook/operating nantil is
critical to sustaining ths dynamisa of the



- 85 -
ubproj ect.
(2) There have ben complementary institutional
rrangements and programes viz. the establishment
of employment contres through the Ministry of
Labour, and National Training Plan which should
assist sustainability.
(3) The data base obtained fros STATIN and CDP data
sources together with more scientific system for
projecting productivity will improve the manpower
planning potential or the PIOJ.
8.9  eaosLat
(1) There needed to have ben more specific torus of
reference for the consultant. This would have
better ensured the meting of deadlines and more
effective monitoring of consultant's activities.
(2) A team approach to implementation could have
ngated some of the advers effects of staff
turnovers.
3.10 SW
The rationale for the subprojact was consistent with
the overall objectives of TAL 11. The design of the
subproj-et - the identified progra_m instruent and
elments - was also compatible with the objective,
Tbe implementation was not always optimal due to risks,
sowe of which could have bee anticipated. The



- 86 -
institutional arrangements - both internal and externally
linked - were positive aspects of the design and
implementation.
Sustainability is possible with enhanced training,
policy easures to increase staff ratention and
institutional linkages with other systems
mmU OF sBU3ROJNRCS
4*1 xo ionale ad I&g;Un9a
Air Jamaica as the island's only locally-owned
international airline is critical to the performance of both
the tourism and trade sectors. since its establishment, the
airline has been dependent on subsidies to maintain its
viability.
Despite several organisation development interventions,
the company failsto meet its managerial and financial
targets.  Consequently, Air Jamaica remained a charge on the
Government of Jamaica's Budget.
4.2 9dkmgtives
The overall objective of technical assistance
intervention through TAL II was to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the airline to allow it to
operate on a cost-plus basis. Specifically, the
interventions should have allowed the company to:



- 87 -
a) Kaxiaise its revenues by upgrading its managerial
performance
b)   Identify specific actions necessary to achieve the
established financial targets
4.3 Islevang. to Wider ObjetiVes of YaL S!
Air jamaica's positioning as a national carrier makes
its inclusion in TAL II marginally rlevant. As a public
enterprise Air Jauaica's inclusion would be consistent with
the overall objective of making such entities cost-
efficient.
404           at De j mian
The intervention consisted of five consultancies in the
following areas:
(i)      Deputy General Manager - Advisor on technical
and administrative matters
(ii)     Revenue Accounting System
(iii)    Director of Quality Control
(iv)     Technical Training manager
(v)      Fleet Extension Study and Advice
Requests in the original proposal for a marketing
specialist and equipment for a field management computer
system were subsequently cancelled.
Each of the consultants was required to have
counterparts. In the case of the technical training
manager, he/she was required to initiate on-goir 4 training



- 88 -
opportunities.
The terms of reference of these consultants were
specific with identified outputs.
49*5 Zansmu&=ion
The consultant engaged in position of Deputy manaina
Director (1985-89) actually assumed executive responsibili-
ties. He not only had responsibility for puttina in olace
all supMorts to ensure nroner and offet ive o2ordination of
flight operations but also agsisted Prsident tan HMacui
Director with day-to-dav a*ministrative tasks of the
A counte    was identified (1986) and this person was
trained to ultimately assume responsibility as Deputy
Managing Director. Other activities undertaken by the
consultant included:
a)   Implementing a plan to strengthen the airline's
flight operations section.
b)   Ensuring the company's achievement of targets in
its annual operating plan.
The specific outputs of this consultancy were:
(i) Identifying a counterpart (Vice President Finance
and Corporate Planning to be Deputy Managing
Director)
(ii) Achieving operational profit (J$42.5M) Fy 1986/87
(iii) Easing cash flow through the liquidation of
overdrafts - the sale of four aircrafts and



- 89 -
acquisition of new equipment
(iv) Designing a strategic Business Plan (1990-95)
(v) Preparing an investment offer document
(vi) Designing a now organisational structure
All the above form the bases of current activity and
policy of the airline.
A major achievement of this intervention was the
effecting of 'on-time performance' by the airlines
fleet/schedules. By 1986-87 there was significant
iprovement in this area, with the airline being well-within
the industry standards.
One of the major strengths of this consultant's
functioning was the detailed reports submitted which clearly
delineated targets, achievements and gaps.
In terms of his intervention, the general assessment
was that he was willing to transfer technology - directly
and indirectly.  Staff, therefore, benefitted through
associating with him.
In terms of the intervention to computerise the revenue
accountina system, a Bank Settlement Plan (1987) was
designed and put in place. This currently functions and
enables travel agents to report and settle sale through an
area bank instead of directly to each airline. This output
from the sub-project has improved the general efficiency of
the airline's operations while achieving the necessary cost
savings. Travel agents also assess the introduction of this



- 90 -
system as positive.
Although the revenue accounting system was identified
and tested in 1986, it waas brought on stream only recently
(1989/90).
The counterpart to the consultants engaged to develop
the revenue accounting system was identified in 1986.
Consultants responsible for the development of the revenue
this individual benefitted from detailed training by the
consultant. The consultant also did a complete review of
the procedures in all the finance and accounting departments
and subsequently documented them in a manual. This
currently guides the operations of the sections.
The output and technology transferred by this
consultant has also had a positive impact on this section.
The counterpart, although promoted to the position of
internal auditor, has passed on her knowledge to her
successor. Further, in her new position, the counterpart
has wider overarching responsibilities in which she can
utilise the knowladge and experience gained.
Interventions 3 and 4 were in the areas of maintenanWe
and auality cotrol. In the sphere of maintenance, the
objective was to relocate, in Jamaica, maintenance
activities for the airline fleet   This was projected as a
foreign exchange saver. The responsibility of the
consultant was to set up and organise training by Janaicans
to carry out maintenance.



- 91 -
To achieve those objectives, an understudy was
identified. An "Aircraft Annrenticeshin SBches" was
initiated through the College of Arts, Science and
Technology (CAST) in Jamaica and Southall College in the
United Xingdom.
In terms of o0alitv Control, although the individual
who was originally identified as counterpart opted out, a
suitable replacement was found. 1'he latter was trained and
confirxed as the Director of Quality Control (1990).
There has been full development of the Quality Control
and Nainteammce departments. This has ensured the approval
zf Air Jamaica's maintenance procedures by the British.
Civil Aviation Authorities and the French Airworthiness
Authorities.
*  The objective of the Fleet Extension Stu  was to
determine the size and types of aircrafts best suited for
Air Jamaica's requirements. A projection of these needs to
1995 was done.      A report on Flagt Planning and Marketina
Strateies was submitted. The Air Jamaica Board accepted
the recommendations vis a via traffic projections and fleet
requirements. Subsequently two airbus A30u were acquired
(1990). The recomendations on new gateways was implemented
due to lack of aircraft capacity and other difficulties in
capitalisation.
The report from the consultants was a critical
ingredient in Air Jamaica's preparation of its 5 year
strategic plan.



- 92 -
The maior weakness seemed to have been the capacity of
the company to comply with the operating guidelines and
procedures for the TAL U. This led to delays in draw-down
on funds and in signing contracts and gaps in submission of
proposals and availability of support documents. The
individuals who were responsible for these activities at Air
Jamaica have since left the company. As a consequence, it
has ns= been rssible to find out whether these shortcomings
resulted from the complexities of the Bank's operating
guidelines or from internal institutional constraints.
A cositive asnect of the institutional arrangements for
these interventions was the overarching responsibility given
to the Consultant Deputy Managing Director whose wealth of
knowledge of the industry and willingness to share his
expertise allowed him to play a dir2ctive role.
These were selected early in the interventions. An
overall assessment is that the consultants were all of a
highly satisfactory quality and hence, had a positive impact
on their counterparts.
4 .7 Varianou
The  _Arao Revenue Accountina SXsten has not been
implemented. Although one which appeared to satisfy Air
Jamaica's needs was identified in 1986, in the final
analysis, this system was assessed as n= being cost



- 93 -
effective, due to the low cargo volumo of Air Jamaica.
The request for a MarketinIg Specialist in the original
proposal was replaced by that for a technical training
manager and a directow of Quality Control.
4.8 Risk
(1) Dynamic changes in the industry led to the non-
implementation of some recommendations from the
consultants. These changes were not totally
predictable.
(2) Acts of God disrupted operations of the Company
and led to a fall in travel (tourist) traffic and
the escalation in operating costs. This also
adversely affected the implementation of some
recommendations
(3) Deliberate decisions (eq. restructuring of
company) by the Board of Management resulted in
some employees who had gained skills through
counterpart relationshiphs being laid off.
4.*  E.stainaikiht1
(1) There has been system-wide acceptance and
institutionalisation of some chnges eg. Revenue
Accounting System, Maintenance and Quality
Control  In all three instances counterparts were
trained and continue to function in the company.



- 94 -
(2) In thb case of the Deputy Managing Director
identified and trained by the Consultant, this
post was made redundant during the restructuring
exercise. This expertise and training have been
lost to the company.
(3) Certain other operating improvements eg. emphasis
on on-time performance have been reversed due to
structural pro'lems eq. poor capital base, age of
fleet.
4.10 Le.u
(1) Technical assistance must be based on a more
holistic diagnosis of a company's/institution's
problems. Attempts have to be made to address
some of strategic problems. If only the
operational activities are addressed then the
latter will be reversed or partially implemented
(2) It is important to the coherence of any technical
assistance intervention to have a "strategic
manager" consultant or executive member who can
integrate the elements. This was a positive
aspect of Air Jamaica's intervention.
4.11      n
These technical assistance interventions had overall
positive effects in correcting external and internal control
and operating systms. The latter were planned, revised,



- 95 -
tested and satisfactorily implemented even though deadlines
vere not always net.
In the case of Air Jamaica, the crucial issue is
sustainability given constraints at the strategic level viz
capitalisation of the airline.
o3  SUD-fl0UC:
S. 0  MSYXIS!CIL I=TnS rE  0? TAM1XCA (STAT=)
5.1 fationalo and BackarougM
This subproject aimed at developing a comprehensiv  set of
indices which would assint with national planning and
forecasting including quarterly national accounts estimates.
5.2  4i-eAif1
The immediate objective was to provide mechanisms for
planning and monitoring the impact of the local Structural
Adjustment Programme. To achieve this, the following had to
be carried out:
(1) construct indices including those of wholesale,
producers and construction material prices.
(2) train staff in methods of index number
construction in the analyses of results as well as
price analyses.
5.3 Relevance to aider Ob-eatives gf YAL I! Iroaraime
The Statistical Institute (STATIN) is the major source



96 -
of data and information for national and enterprise
planning. The availability of accurate and timely
information based on the most up-to-date methods of
collation storage and analysis is, therefore, critical to
any "successful" structural adjustment process. The
subproject facilitated institutional strengthening and
technological enhancement.
54 sub-broieat no.1cm
The subproject had five components/elements.  These
were:
(i)  Development and implementation of a Contral
Register
(ii) Development and implementation of an Index number
avoste
(iii)  Development of new series of Consumer Price
Indics
(iv)  Training a cohort of officers
(v) Designing and putting on-line End User Computing.
There was provision for consultants to act as training
advisor, computer specialist and senior statistician.
The terms of reference of the consultants were
specific, identifying doliverables.  Subsequently, however,
it was discovered that at least in the case of the Senior
Statistician one element, critical to the achievement. ot his
wider terms ol reforence, had not been included in this



-97-
terms of referenees  The components of the subproject
agreed on by Client/Borrower and Bank were those reqpqeted
by the clients. However, there was a variance in the
amounts allocated for each component. This led to an
inadequacy of funds for s;me.
After the main project proposal was approved, STATIN
requested assistance with the planning and implementation of
the population census.
5.5 1.  zms.ncaion
The scope of work involved in the implementation could
be broadly classified as:
(i) Statistical Manipulations and Methods
(ii) surveys
(iii) End User Computing
(iv) Training
The major obstacle to the timely implementation of the
project was delay in decision-making on the part of the
Bank. This related to decisions on training as well as on
approval of elements viz  assistance for the population
census. In the case of the latter, the delay in decision-
making led to STATIN finding alternate methods of achieving-
undertaking the project.
Delays also adversely affected *ran± ng..a onenUa.
This meant either that potential trainers could not be
released in the short time period between decision and



- 98 -
commencement of course or that dates for training course*
had already passed by the time approval had been given.
A major delay in the implementation resulted from the
length of the negotiations with the International Institute
in the Hague, the Netherlands. These negotiations case to
an end between March and September 1986. Subsequently a
local consultant was engaged to conduct the training.
In terms of the e_dUser aoM=utiamonent, there was
a problem in identifying competent programmers. The
consultant, however, proposed the use of personal computers,
with only specific applications being reserved for the main-
frame. This proposal was successfully implemented and had
the positive result of providing greater manoeuvrability.
.     -      In general, there war a high dagree of satisfaction
* .    with the consultants. The assessment by the Borrower is
that the consultants generally were all willing to transfer
their skills and knowledge. The senior statistician also
assumed the additional activity of assisting in finalising
questionnaires and providing instructions in sampling plans.
*      a.   Zn1.MnLaguc~
Theoa seemed to have been satisfactory with
collaboration taking place between consultants, agency head
and the agency's director of research and planning.
2 .                 .afkZit
Five.counterpart officers were identified for each area
of training/technology transfers.  Theae have largely



- 99 -
continued to be employed by STATIN   The issues of the
classification of the officers and their professional
mobility have, however, led to concerns about retaining
thou.
4.   lav1erabls
(1) The Central Register was tested ane put on-line
Despite personnel changes, the system is still
functional.
(2) The Index Numbers System is also functional.
(3)  The End User Computing System has been developed,
tested and adapted and is now operating.
(4) There had been training of 3 levels of officers:
(a) Interviewers and supervisors
(b) Counterpart officers - this has been
primarily on-the-job in the subject in which
the officers served as counterparts.
(C) Middle level statisticians - comprehensive
training covering various areas.
About 75% of those who have been trained have been
retained, to date.
An output of STATIN on which the interventions through
TAL II has had ani impact is the publication of The survey of
Living Conditions (July-August, 1988). Technical assistance
for the publication was provided by consultant senior
statistician consultants.



- 100 -
"in a  the *10
Although the PIOJ was viewed as "facilitatory", concern
was expressed about this institutionis inability to take
certain decisions without approval fro  the Bank. The
client agency xpressed the view that once broad policy and
programme parameters were determined by Bank and Borrower,
the latter should have greater autonomy in operational
decisions.
5*7 varlances
(1) The improvement of labour force surveys was not an
item covered in the original terms OF reference.
Yet this assumed importance in the actual
assignment undertaken by the Senior Statistician.
(2) There was a deferral in the'collection of
producers' prices and whole-sale prices.
There were at least 4 additional areas of activity
by the senior consultant which varied from those
identified in his terms of references   These
included:
(i) Assist with finalising questionnaires,
instructions in sampling plans
(ii) Pursuing the Survey of Living Conditions
(iii) Pursuing the Business Loss Survey
(iv) Developing Social Indicators



- 101 -
5.? hikE
(i) There were time overruns in putting the two
establishment surveys on a sound footing. These
delays affected elements of the project.
(ii) Further delays were caused by Hurricane Gilbert
(September, 1988).
(1) Training seems to be the area of gretest concern,
in terms of sustainability. This is made more
critical by the fairly high turnover, primarily at
the upper levels of professional staff.
The client agency will ned assistance to continue
specialised training. This, it is projected could
be obtained through two complementary routes:
(i) Continued interface with practitioners with
state-of-the-art- knowledge (eg. Bureau of
Census and Bureau of Labour Statistics - USA)
who can provide hands-on expertise in
addressing knotty problems.
(ii) Preparing a teaching video with content
comparable to the courses offered by the
Bureau of Census* The use of both of the
above methodologies would have additional
advantages of not having to grant selected
trainees long release time while making
contents more country-specific.



102 -
(2)  Government Policies have had a direct impact on
both (i) retention of high quality staff and
(ii) of critical programme development.
(i) Retenio  o        oualit    a
Governments have not recognised the
specialist nature of the professional skills
required by STATIN. Hence, classification
from the Public Service continues to be at
non-competitive market levels.
(ii) Critical Proaramme DevelogMent
Databases for certain pivotal enterprises
sector (eg Small Business) are critical for
enhancement of STATIN's data set etc.
Although STATIN has put forward a budget to
the government to facilitate extra work on
the Small Business Programme, the allocation
hMs fallen significantly below the amount
requested. STATIN is awaiting a directive
from the government on which elements of the
programme it should pursue. In the interim,
STATIN is undertaking the scope of work and
time-table outlined in its original proposal.
(3) End User Computing Software upgrades will be
manageable once STATIN receives requested
budgetary allocations from the Government.
However, there are predictable difficulties in
keeping abreast of the state-of-the art hardware.



-103-
Already some to th personal computers in use are
out-of-date. The budgetary request to the
government is now under discussion between the two
parties.
5.9 Leusona Learnt
(i) There needs to be greater powers of decision-
making delegated to the PIOJ by Bank, once there
has been an agreed project framework and operating
guidelines.
(ii)  More "slack time" needs to be incorporat d in
schedules to accommodate unforeseen and
unpredictable events.
(iii)  Precise identification of subproject elements is
critical to effective implementation.
5.10 *u=
The subproject was well-conceived (implemented in an
appropriate institutional framework) - even though - some
critical elements were excluded from consultants' terms of
reference. There seemed to have been a mutually beneficial
relationship between the consultants and the client agency.
The major current concern seems to relate to sustainability,
given the highly technical and technological nature of the
institutional developments which this subproject entailed.



104 -
in= OJ SUPB ROJNO!S
6.0 a            a
6.1  Ratiohlle and BakX oMA
The Revenue Board is the public sector entity
responsible for the administration and collection of all
taxes. The latter are paid on goods entering the island as
well as for certain types of productive activity and output.
in addition, all employed persons pay income taxes.
increased domestic savings was identified as a critical
leg of the structural adjustment programme. The revenues
collected through the Revenue Board were seen as one
possible source of domestic savings. Over the years, the
tax administration system had become ad hoc and
-u-nnecessarily complex thus reducing compliance and the
levels of revenues earned.
6. 2 Obietive-a
STRENGTHENING THE SYSTEMS FOR COLLECTING CUSTOMS
DUTIES, the computerisation of the Revenue Services and the
improvement in the tax administration in Jamaica were
identified as priorities of the Structural Adjustment
programme. This would be achieved through:
1)   lacreasing revenues
2)   Expediting the clearance of legitimate exports
3)   Reducing competition from illicit imports



- 105 -
assistance intervention were:
a)   Strengthening the services' humn development
programme.
b)   8trengthening and simplifying the services'
operational systems
6.3 Maleuafce to Obi_atlye. of T. II
As indicated above, a critical objective of the
structural adjustment program   was to increas  domestic
savings. The activitie to benefit the Revenue Board aimed
at achieving this. The inclusion of institution development
of the Revenu Board as a subproject of TML II was,
therefore, a perfect fit with the overall objectives of TAL
U.
6*4 ask=     eatpsian
A master-plan was developed as part of the project
proposal. This included the following personnel and
supports:
1) 2 management analysts to advise- the Board on the
revision, development and maint nanc of
procedures, record-keeping and forms.
2) 1 computer spe cialist to assist the Board with
identifying coputerisation systms design and
specifi%ation.



-106
3) Electronics Data Proc"ssing (EDP) training and
implaemntation support in respect ot the computer
system for the General Consumption Tax (GCT).
All thse components were seen as critical to
simplifying and integrating the Board'l operating systems.
In the sphere of humn resource development, a
consultant to advise on developing more appropriate
pertormance incentives and sanctions for officers was to
have been engaged. One Audiovisual and one training advisor
should have been identified and trained. Training quipment
and materials were to be provided through this intervention.
A general feature of the interventions should have been
the identification of appropriate overseas training courses
for professional officers.
The following were the sub-project components
i) Design of a Customs Information system -
3DP Training programme
-   Acquisition of Point-of-Sale Terminals
for customs and exercise departments
ii) Development and implementation of Customs
evaluations and GCT Subsystems
-    User manuals - specifying administrative
procedures to be used in the valuation
systems and its output
-   User Test & User Training with the
implementation being the full



- 107 -
responsibility of the Board assisted by
an external consultant
The actual design of the project seemed well
integrated, with clarity of workplans and differentiation of
the tasks to be performed by foreign consultants and those
by local counterparts. Such a detailed and clear design
should theoretically have ensured goal achievement and
enhanced the potential for technology transfers.
Some element of the intervention were complemented by
technical assistance through the US AID and the Commonwealth
1)  ZuU.n stitlt In
Early in the implementation process, a steering
committee was established. This committee included
representatives of the management of the Revenue Board,, the
user's project personnel and representatives of the
consulting firm, DATACENTRLIN.
DATACENTRALEU was engaged as the foreign consulting
firm to design the systems and to develop the appropriate
software packages. This company was also reaponsible for
upgrading and other system capabiities.
.mk
Fiscal Services Ltd. was used as the local consulting
agencies because the Revenue Board lacked the rquired



- 108 -
expertise. Fiscal services had the desired expertise but
was limited by their own organisational situation and not
being adequately consulted at the programe design stage.
Individuals were given on-the-job training in design,
analysis and programming.*
In general, the activities of the analysis and design
phases of the interventions were satisfactorily completed.
However, there were difficulties in the implementation
process due to:
1) Inadequate infrastructure viz. unavailability of
data communication facilities (lines).
2)  Magnitude of the organisational changes required
to accommodate nad maintain the new system.
Computerisation was new to the Custom and Excise
Departtents and it took some time to sensitise and
reorient staff. Even then, there had been some
resistance to the introduction and use of the
systems.
3)         ate agsIL.D actQi* ons by DATACEnTRLM.
4)         ic develoment of Fiscal Sfrvices Ltt.
Fiscal Services Ltd. was itself in its start-up
phase at the incipient stages of this subproject.
Further Fiscal Services was not given an adequate
co-partnership status, in the design and
implementation of the project.
*    The constant request for assistance from outside of the
organisation and fears about sustainability would seem to
indicate an inadeqacy of skills transfer.



-109-
Eight functional requirements studies were done.
Subsequently, the ysteEs were to have been developed by
DaAXAcEwTrnEN. The Custos information system was designed
but the system is not operating. Application support for
this system is required specifically to convert existing
Customs Information System from batch processing to on-line
and to implement software modifications to realiss interface
between GTC computer system and CIs.
The implementation of the CIS was also negatively
affected by changes in institutional responsibility from
that of the Revenue Board to the Revenue Collection
Services. Som training of staff in EDP was done and point-
of-sale terminals acquired for the international airports
and major customs houses
A valuation system for customed goods was also
developed but not implemented due to inaequate
comunication facilities and lack of acceptance of this
system by Customs and Excise Departments.
The GCT system wa tested successfully by
representatives of the Revenue Services Ltd. However, the
development and implementation of staff training programme
for the GCT wa not done as staff was not in place up to
October 1990   This was due to a postponemnt in the
implementation date of the GCT.
The delay in putting the GCT Customs system in place,
was due to the non-oprations of the Customs Information



- 110 -
8ystem.The computer System for the GCT was developed at
Fiscal Service Ltd. in collaboration betwen DATACZNTRALEN,
the latter providing project management services. The
syste was tested by the user, and a contract entered into
with DLTacUWTIaLEN and the Revenue Board to enhance the
systems capability all these tasks were completed by
October, 1990.
The gaps between the projected dates of implementation
and the actual implemntation eq. of GCT have led to a
rephasing of the programme of. intervention. Two phases have
been identified - October 1990-March 1991; April 1991-
october 15; 1991. This rephasing is vital to the smooth
implemntation of the GCT Programm.
During the initial stages of the implementation, there
was a lack of clarity about the intrmediary role of the
PIW.  As a consequence, the Board retained the services of
consultant without first obtaining clearance through the
PIO. Information of costs of equipment was submitted
directly to the Bank and not through the PIO.
There were other coordinating problem which negatively
affected the project. For exemple, slow processing of
payments led to a threat by DATACViTRALEU that they would
charge interest on late payments.



1) The Customs Information system is not on-line.
2) Delays in implementation (eg GCT) resulted in the
need to extend consultants' contracts - to ensure
the revision of procedures consistent witi the GCT
ACT arid the consequent training requirements.
3) The Valuation System designed in 1987 could not be
implemented due to inadequat communication
facilities and lack of acceptanc on the part of
Customs & Excise Departments.
.7  Ita
1)  cnadequat communication infrastructure has
resulted in an inability to take full advantage of
automatd (computer) systems within the client
agency.
2)  There have been cost overruns due to inadequat
preparation and low receptivity of change and
innovation (eg GCT) within the wider Janaican
enVironment.
3)  Organisational resistance to and non-acceptance of
changes not only led to delays in implementation
but non-implemntation of some systems.
1) The major issue relates to the non-installation of
the C. I S and whether, in the absence of this,



- 112 -
any ref ro of the Custom  services has actually
taken ploce. The client agency has assessed the
training intervention as successful. This
entailed on-the-job training of counterparts in
analysis, design and programming. The extent of
the technology transfers and the development of
inhouse and local capability are questionable,
however, given the agency's current requests for
the continuation of overseas consultancies.
2)  There is a potential problem in obtaining the
requisite amounts of foreign exchange to upgrade
and maintain the automated systems.
3)  Thesustaining of registration and compliance once
OCT, is operational, is another critical issue.
In addition, there are queries about adequate
back-up systems for the existing automated
systems.
1)  Impl enation of a change process is more
difficulty and requires a longer period of time if.
it involves behaviour modification.
2)  If behaviour *odification is requird within th
insiftution, then there had to be a planned
progra_m  of education and concensus building.
3)  Institution-building is a slow process. In the
case of a newly-established entity (eg. Fiscal



- 113 -
Services Ltd.) which needs to build its own
expertise and systems do novo, it was unrealistic
to have expected that entity to give effective
assistance to another client institution.
4)  The country'a physical infrastructure for
technology must be evaluated before the latter is
introduced. If there is a lack of capacity, then,
modifications of the technology must be done.
5) Faulty designs can lead to project delays and
effectivenes. (For example a distributed
processing design would have been more effective
in having the agency attain its objective than
the one ultimately selected).
6)  Assistance must be given to oversea  consultants
in evaluating the local environment.
7.0 ma!ZONAL      _          or ZA.3N11Ck
7.1  3anal.inagLIukuzmu
-Two of the overall objectives of the  tructural
adjustment process were:
(1) To adopt special measure to augment private
dometic savings, thereby, improving local support
for overall investment programm  (private and
^' public).



- 114 -
(2) To achieve increased production in key sectors of
',t    '      the wonomy.
One of the strategies to be employed in achieving the
above was to privatise state owned enterprises using
divestmant as the primary policy instrument. Further,
certain sectors were to be aade more viable through
incr ased public and private investments. These were two of
the rolos of the National Znvestment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ).
*        7.2  OklsEll.u
1)3 To strengthen the management capability of the
NID and its capacity to tobilise private sector
investment through country participation in joint
.           = ~~vntures.
32)  To manage the ultimate divestment ow government
owned enterprises.
7.5v3           to Wider    ative. ol ZU I
Given the objective of reorienting the Jamaican economy
to make it more export-led, the NIBJ had a critical role in
providing or seeing investments and technical expertise.
7.4 figIraaiLi D szia
This involved a series of short-term consultancies in
aqua-culturs shrimp farming, orchard crop development and
coffee expansion projects. A consultant was also engaged



- 115 -
for the rehabilitation of the Banana Industry.
A longer-term consultancy to establish a unit to guide
the divestment of major public enterprises was also
designed. A third component of the sub-project viz. the
contracting of an investmnt banker - was not implemented.
7.5S       etd.oz
The services of a consultant was engaged to assist in
establishing the unit to assist in the divetment of major
public enterprises. The consultant was retained on a full-
time basis for one year (1985-86) and subsequently on ad hoc
bases (1986-87). The consultant directed the activity for
the divestment of two major enterprise - National
Commercial Bank (NCB) and the Cement Company (C.C. C.).
other activities included:
1) developing a plan for the disposal of the residual
NCB shares.
2)  detailed planning for the proposd share offer for
Radio Jamaica Ltd. (This offer was never made).
In terms of one of the core activities, the consultant
did submit a plan for the restructuring of the NIBJ to
provide the goWVer nt of Jamaica with the capability to
oversee investments und        on the basis of directives.
This plan was sumt  (11/85) to the NZB Board for
approval. Once approval was given then the actual
restructuring should have begun.



- 116 -
In term of the short-term consultanciss no records or
reports were found of these.
Thero see4ad to have been a major flaw in the dsign
and implemnntation of this technical assistance
intervention. The consultant acted independently of the
mainstream organisation. The ipleamentation procedures were
loss than satisfactory. There was some incompatibility
between the intvntion and the culture and orientation of
NXW. The latter had a largely agricultural portfolio and
so was ill-equipped to handle divestments. NIBJ, therefore,
largely acted as a Secretariat for Divestment activities.
As sudh the institutional intervention was an add-on to
rather than an integral art of the N   's organisation.
The individual identified was more of an administrative
assistant rather than professional to whom additional skills
were being transferred.
The staff of the beneficiary institution was introduced
to the use of a microbased financial forecasting model and a
manual was developed for this system. It was projeated that
training would begin in earnest when computer facilities
were in place. It is, however, difficult to evaluate the
usefulness of this training intervention due to lack of
reports, records etc. and to the departure from the NIW  of
individuals who participated in the training.



- 117 -
The consultant did produce policy proposals for the
divestaent of public enterprises. Further he co-ordinated
and implemnted actual div.stmwnts/privatisations. ne.
negotiated for investmnt opportunities for the Digiport -
the teleport facility in Montego Bay. He assisted with the
establishment of a debt swap facility.
The technical assistance services provided by this
consultant could be said to have had an overall positive
impact on Jamaica's privatisation program  and its
international reputation. However, NW  as a client did not
benefit directly  from the services of the consultant, hence
the institution's own capability in this sphee has not been
enhanced. Evidence of this is provided by the fact that the
NW  continues to engage the services of outsider to
undetake these activities.
74 Role of the 1W0
The PZOJ did have metings with the NW  to discuss
reponsibilities and procedures the latter      isation was
informed of expectations etc. However, there were
innumerabla project administration delays, general
weaknesses in report submisions and in the provision of
contracts and invoices for payments



- 118 -
7*7 3=ringgs
1)  A unit was not actually established to assist in
the divestment of major public enterprises.
7.S Ihaka
1)  The nhacement of institutional capability will
not be achieved if counterpart personnel are not
an integral a part of project implemntation.
2)   Inappropriate institutional arrangements at client
institutions minimis* the impact of intervention
and do not enhance institutional development.
3)  The impact of any technical assistance cannot be
adeuately evaluated if progre"s reports and other
tools are not submitted on a timely basis.
7.S    _    o l
1) The technical assistance provided to NTBJ was not
adequately owned by institution. Systems were
xtraneous to the extant institutional framework.
High staff turnovers also minimised the gains from
training etc.
2)   Some procedures manuals and prospectus
are available within the institution. Thes
should provide some guidelines for future action.



- 119 -
7.10 Lesson. L nt
1)  At the design or diagnostic stage of any technical
assistance intervention, there must be som
determination as to the compatibility of the
actual intervention with existing institutional
arrangements of the beneficiary agency. If the
intervention in deemed to be incompatible then
there might be need for some institutional
development prior to the intervention.
2)   There needs to be on-going rigorous evaluative
documentation not only of individual technical
assistance activities but of terms of references
and overall objectives. Senior Management
personnel within beneficiary institutions must be
a part of this evaluation.
3) Changes in political regimes can lead to
discontinuities in technical assistance
interventions.
7. 11    mu
This technical assistance intervention did provide
specific programs. outputs consistent with the overall
objectives. The benefits of the intervention were not,
however, maximised dut to the absence of system-wide
integration. An evaluation of some components has been
impossible due to the absence of documentation and the
turnover of personnel.



- 120 -
mm or SU-YROMC:
* .0SUCYOR t5N=)-XODMMZ!ON 01 INDUSTR!
$l 1    ionale and Dacmm
A centrepiece of both TAL I and TAL II was the need to
make manufacturers and the general productive sector in
Jamaica globally more competitive. Further, there was
empirical evidence to support the view that some
manufacturers would become less competitive under the new
lower tariff regime with an anticipated influx of more
imported items.
-.2 odgitlve
To induce Jaaaican manufacturers to improve efficiency,
cost effectiveness and competitiveness and thereby, increas
exports.
S.2 aeSlvna. to Wider Objeaties of ThO    Prorame
The interventions in the industrial sector through
JANPRO were to have been in strategic subsectors.  The
interventions would upgrade and transfer skills. It was,
therefore, conceived as a companion piece to the Tariff
Reform Programe and targeted a sector which was critical to
the adjustment of the Jamaican economy.



- 121 -
5.4     azut DiLfM
The original proposal smanated from the (now de-
institutionalised) Jamaica industrial Development
Corporation - JIDC. The culture and skills of this
Corporation were more oriented to industrial expertise.
This was reflected in the original subproject design which
had as its major components
(i) Short diagnostic surveys to determine corrective
action to be taken.
(ii) Prescription of immediate steps to modernise
operations of enterprises in subsector
(iii) Assistance with the development of technology in
individual companies, this was aimed at
modernising their plants.
The design inorporated the use of short-term
consultancies in the subsector of:
(i) Furniture - upholstering, machine engineering
(ii) Apparel - tailoring and commercial design
(iii) Footwear and leather specialisations
The evolution of the subproject has led to the
following additional interventions.
(i) The Toolmakers Institute - training appropriate
technology and a potential base for capital goods
sector
(ii) Assessment of Information Processing as a
potential growth sector



- 122 -
(iii) Training Needs Survey - cross subsector
assesments
*.5  1.  Zai~ta
Delays (Bank/Borrower) in agreeing on procedures and
guidelins resulted in problems in accessing funds. There
were changes in local conditions viz, institutional -
restructuring of JIDC/JNIC and policy - renoval of majority
of quantitative restrictions on imports. The effect of
these changes was that the industrial engineering approach
(JIDC) of the original proposal was reoriented to that of a
more promotions approach (JANPRO). Secondly, there was a
virtual decimation of the footwear industry, leading to this
subsector being excluded as an ultimate beneficiary of the
project.
The client agency was of the view that many of the
queries/questions raised by the borrower illustrated a
distance by the latter from the Jamaican reality.
a.   tuu. a uI
JANPRO bore the responsibility for engaging short-term
consultants. For the furniture and apparel industries, the
consultants did short diagnostic studies and then conducted
training of representatives of these subsectors. These
training sessions were organised by JAMPRO. Participants
were required to make contributions toward their
participation in these seminars.



-123-
S.
No formal counterparts were asigned within JaRO.
However, subsector representatives were targeted for more
in-depth knowledge transfers because it was felt that such
knwledge and technique transters would be rore
appropriately usd at the subsector level.
Although there was general satisfaction with the
consultants - local and foreign - there ws the view that
the inadequate lead time given for the recruitment of such
persons meant that the best expertise was not always
noecsarily obtained. The organisation and delivery of the
training would have benefitted significantly from
consultants being engaged before actual start-up training.
The short time period of many of the interventions
minimisd their impact. The project nature of the
intervention meant that the elements selected were usually
once and for all activity unless additional funding could be
obtained. There was not enough scope for follow-up
especially for the training sessions.
There was uncertainty about the life of the project as
dates for termination of the loan changed. This resulted in
a "stop"/"startO approach and planning and implementation
uncertainty.
4.   hb
The specific outputs of this project included manuals
and other documnts for nodernising the garment design and



- 124 -
furniture industries. The upgrading of skills through the
toolakers institute and the training needs survey are other
tangible outputs.
(a)  Taloria            rcial  __Lig
This training course was heavily over-subscribed
and has subsequently been re-scheduled. The
additional essions had not been originally
included in the budget. Also initially the
location for the courses was confined to the
Kingston Metropolitan Area. Subsequent sessions
have been held out of Kingston.
There was a low drop-out rate - of 28 registered,
22 completed the course of study.
Attempts are being made to find additional
training opportunities for a few outstanding
graduates.
The consultant - local - was seen as having a very
high level of expertise.
The intervention on tailoring was not held as it
was not a highly-requested area. The intervention
in coumarcial design benefited from geographical
dispersion and from hands-on, on-site delivery.
This has also been evaluated as very beneficial.
It is planned to have follow-up sessions with
designers from non-Jamaican locations.
(b)  purni    - MgoitMUn  and Ka
Both consultants had high levels of hands-on



- 125 -
experience which they shared with local subsector
manufacturers. The quality of their intervention
was high and critical to modernising the subsector
by enhancing the quality of production.
The short duration of their consultancies limited
their ability to reinforce their lessons.
However, manuals were prepared and should be in
use.
The recomendations from the consultants have been
accepted and are inputs into the plans by JAMPRD
for subsequent interventions in this sector.
(a)    Q1&M  institut
The strategic importance of this Institute relates
to its potential for being the base for a capital
joods sector through the development of
appropriate technology and technicians.
Due to damage by Hurricane Gilbert (1988), the
Institute had to be closed.
The specific intervention aimed at restructuring
and revitalising the Institute. A local
consultant was engaged to examine the curriculum,
do a survey of needs and develop a necessary
maintenanc progrmme.
With the completion of the survey, the
r commendations were discussed in-house (JANPRO).
Currently steps are being taken to implement an
operational plan.



-126 -
(d) Trainina Needs Suve
This was a sub-sector examination of manpower and
skills needs of six subsectors. The final report
has been submitted and is currently being
discussed in-house (JANPRO) to determine follow-up
steps.
(e) In2oRzatiOn =r22essang
A market survey was completed into what has been
described as an "important new area*. This survey
has identified multiple opportunities for
expansion and upgrading. This base document has
also provided guidelines for further technical
assistance.
A critical next step is the planning of "training"
sessions in Toronto and London for potential
beneficiaries.
Inter-ministerial linkages is one policy action
required to realize the opportunities identified.
The operating guidelines and procedures were not always
clear. This client agency noted that initially, the PIoJ
itself seemed unclear about these guidelines. Further, the
officers at PIOJ, in the initial stages, were not as
communicative and flexible as the beneficiary agency would
have liked. The desk officer assigned subsequently to this
project, has however been very responsive to the beneficiary



- 127 -
agency's queries.
One major area of dissatisfaction identified by this
beneficiary was the long delays in payments experienced in
the initial stages of the project. The establishment of an
Administrative Division in the PI03 created another tier to
which the client had to submit documents for payments, thus
resulting in further delays.
JAMPRO representatives were of the view that a
strengthened technical capacity within PIOJ could bave
assisted beneficiary agencies in identifying more
appropriate technical assistance interventions - consistent
with the preference of the Bank and the needs of the
Borrowers.
S.7 !u153Q1
(1) The Footwear and Leather subsectors and tailoring were
excluded in the implementation process.
(2) Formal counterparts were not appointed as there
was no budget from G03 to do this.
(1) Changes in institutional arrangements and policies
lead to changes in the emphases of project
proposals. Hence the institutional conditions
under which the subproject was actually
implemented were different from those under which
they were designed.



- 128 -
(2) sroad goals and term of reference of the project
can result in unfocused programe content,
therefore, diffused technical assistance impct.
(3) The dynamism of tho environment can lead to
chages in the demands of the mnufacturing
sector. ha absence of quick response to these
chages makes interventions superfluous.
(4) A policy fram rk which conflicts with a projfct
objective negate the potential benefits
assistanoe especially where the latter is
delivered in project form. This was specifically
the case with the footwear setor for which a more
holistic treatent as required. The depth of the
problem in this sector meant that it was
impossible to address them through short-term
consultancia which had no continuity. To be
effective, a wider programm was required.
.*9  8|i ^
1)  A major asset of this subproject was its design
which facilitated intervention at the level of the
subsectors themelves and delivered technical
assistance directly to the users. This definitely
enhanced the prosp    of sustainability.
2)  Guidelines have ben prepared by consUltants for
the furniture  anufacturing subsector.  These
guidelines are in use by the manufacturers. In



- 129 -
the case of the apparels sector, the use of
co¢etent local consultants has been beneficial to
austainability.
3)  All of the above programm  will require follow-up
nodules both to reinforce and enhance the quality
of output and to modernise the sector on an on-
going basis. It is hoped that such assistance
will be available through GOJ budgetary
allocation.
4)  The surveys which have ben done facilitate
planning in modernization and manpower needs. In
terms of the latter, JANPRO is actively
collaborating with the PIOJ and the newly-
established National Training Agency to ensure
continuity.
5)  In the final analysis, the viability of the
various subsectors and their maximising the
benefits gained from these interventions will be
determined by a supportive policy environment.
S*l0 LEUa2i..&mmn
(1) There is need to ensure minimum delays in
interventions once a problem has been diagnosed.
(2) A more precisely defined technical assistance
intervention is more beneficial than one with
.. broad objectives and multiple elemnts.



- 130 -
(3) Consultants engaged in training should arrive a
few weeks prior to the start-up of the actual
activity as their input is critical to the design
of the training proess
(4) The policy environment must be compatible with the
strategic objectives of any technical assistance
intervention.
(5) A programme approach to industry madernisation has
more impact and is more sustainable than a project
approach.
The lag between design and implementation, and the
policy and institutional changes which occurred in the
interim had a negative effect on the efficacy of this
subpro¢ct. The institutional arrangements under which this
subproject was subsequently executed and the direct transfer
of technology to users have been a definite positive aspect
of its implementation.
(The form of this assessment departs from that done for
the other subprojects due to sparsity of information on the
Agricultural Sector Loan).



- 131 -
9.1  Rationale and Raakarun
Agriculture is a major subsector of th J4amaican
economy, with a potential for rapid and sustained growth.
Like other productive sectors, there  r structural problesw
which would noed to be addressed if growth is to be achieved
and sustained. Further, there are some non-traditional
activities that need to be expanded given export market
opportunities.
i)  To identify important policy (including
institutional) issues.
ii) To formulate specific policy proposals and action
plans to address the agricultural sector.
903 Relevaae- to Objctives of TAL XI
This subproject would be integral to the stated
objective of the structural adjustment programm which aims
at wincreas(ing) production in key sectors of the economy..
and in the process, make (agriculture) a significant..
contributor to the effort to secure Balance of Payments
equilibrium (NPA: 1982)
9.4  IDZit.  "SianR
Policy papers were commissioned on:
i) Institutional Framework



- 132 -
ii) Agricultural Support Services
iii) Adequacy and conditionalities of credit available
to farmer
iv) Irrigation policy
v) Internal Marketing System
vi) Hillside Development and Watershed
The paper were to form the basis of appraisal of World
Bank - financed agricultural sector loan. The paper should
have identified important policy (including institutional)
issues to be addresed through interventions financed by
this loan. It was anticipated that the interventions would
have an impact on approximately 15 institutions in the
agricultural sector and would involve the restructurin  of
agricultural research and extension.
The preparation of the paper and the formulation of
the action plan should be done in collaboration with the
Food and Agriculture Organisation (rAo).
The papes were prepared and policy issues distilled
from thm.  However, there wer some differences between
local personnel external consultant in the salient policy
rcom_ndations. Local personnel disagreed with the
deroqulation of the s*ctor and tariff restructuring.
The papers formed an input into the subsequent Five
YeTr Development Plan and a knowledge base for some of the



- 133 -
general operations of the Ministry of Agriulture. They
have also ben  usoful for designing at the genral
institutional framework for the Rural Agricultural
Developmnt Agency, (RADA).
Based on the reco mmndations of one of the papers, an
ornaental Horticulturist was employed. This specialist
engaged in training and experimental adaptive research to
upgrade the quality of ornamental plants/flower primarily
for export. His terms of reference specifically included
the scuring and improving of production technology  -plants
nutrition, physiology and diseases.  The  onsultat was also
involved in promotional activities - seminars, workshops,
meetings - with various professional and official
organisations.
This refers specifically to the local couterpart for
the Ornaental Horticulturist. The officer in charge of the
Ornamental Horticulture Advisory Service (OHAS) as well as a
member of this service were identified to work with the
specialist.
In addition two officars were assigned to work in the
area of Research and Development. Most of these
counterparts are no longer employed with the Ministry of
agriculture.



- 134 -
The intervention by the ornamental horticulturist was
evaluated as usetul - although there is no quantifiable
assess_nt of his impact on the subsector. Some doubts were
raised about the wider application of the experiment
(R + D.) which he carried out in "artificial conditions" and
their transferability to the wider environment.
High staff turnover which characterises the Ministry of
Agriculture had meant the loss of some of the skills to the
institution - although not to the subsector.
The consultant made three specific recendationsro
the status of which are unclear.
1000 ~Aiistrative Refgar  (ZntrmAPeaam
1001 RatIo   and Rackaroumd
Under TAL II, the World Bank provided assistance for
Phase I of an Administrative Reform Programme. Due to
various factors, some o0 the projects started under Phase I
were not completed. Other were still at the planning stage
at the end of Phase I. Further, there were several reform
activities which had to be maintained and monitored.
An agreement was reached with the World Bank to make
available US$1. 9 under TAL II to assist in financing the
interim programme over the period 1/7/88 to 31/7/91 a
further US$238,000 was later added and the litf of the



- 135 -
project extended to 31/10/91.
10.2 Olbieturve
The Interim Programe had two main components viz.
Financial Management and Programme Management. In terms of
financial management, the objectives were as follows:
a)   To complete the Debt Monitoring System in the
Accountant General's Department.
b)   To computerise the existing budget system in the
Ministry of Finance.
c)   To prepare a programme structure firstly for the
Ministry of Agriculture, as a pilot project and
secondly for other development Ministries viz.
Health, Education and Construction.
d)   To identify major problems in the accounting
system and in managing external assistance.
In terms of Programme Management, the following were
the objectives:
1)   To introduce Corporate/Strategic Planning in
selected Ministries including design and
implementation of supporting management
information systems.
2)   To complete review of Post Classification System
for the first 10,000 professional, managerial and
technical positions.



- 136 -
3)   To develop and implement a programme to recruit,
train and retain staff for project implementation
as well as general administration.
4)   To establish methods of more effective service
delivery especially in those public service
departments.
10.3 Rlevance to wider Obiegtive, of TZL It
Assessments done in the initial stages of the
Structural Adjustment Programme identified weak financial
management and poor administrative capability as two of the
causes of tAe non-dynamism of the public sector. The
targettinc of both deficiencies was, therefore, a priority.
10.4 SubDroject Desion
The subproject consisted of two major components
managed by local and overseas personnel. Consultants were
subcontracted to undertake various components. The
consultants identified local agency officers who acted as
liaison personnel.
1.0s5 !mplementation
Institutional Arrangements
A unit has been operating in the Ministry of the Public
Service. This unit plays the role of a catalyst for the
reform process. Pilot Ministries/Departments are selected
for "experimentation" with specific reform aspects. once



- 137 -
these "experiments" are rooted and self-corrective measures
taken, the lessons learnt are used for implementation in
other agencies.
This institutional arrangement conforms to the view
that external change agents can be more effective as they
bring alternative views to an agency and have no special
interest to defend.
Counterpart,
The programme has a full-time Executive Director who
benefitted from a counterpart relationship in Phase II. In
addition, the Director had benefitted from targetted formal
training.
Officers have been appointed in each Ministry to take
responsibility for the implementation of the 1992/93
Programme Budgetting and Corporate planning.
Deli-erables
In terms of the Financial management Component
a)   Debt Monitorina System
A computerised programme has been written and
installed. It is, however, not fully operational
due to lack of trained user personnel.
b) Com=uterisation of the existing budaet system -
Ministry of Finance
This system is fully operational.
c)   A new Rroaramme structure was prepared for the
Ministry of Agriculture and other development



- 138 -
Ministries.
d)  Agcountina SysLte  and Nana-aement of External-
The major problems have been identified and a
procedural manual prepared for distribution. The
International Loan Monitoring Unit in the Ministry
of Finance has been strengthened and steady
progress is being made in strengthening other
pertinent systems.
e) ComnUteiged Financ~ial MansueMent IEnformati2n
8srtem
Tenders for the procurement of hardware and
software have been received and are currently
being evaluated. A corps of technical experts has
been recruited to develop and manage the systems.
f)   Other financial managements systems and processes
have been established to ensure ownership of the
reform process by the Ministry of Finance.
g)   Financial Planning and Budgetting cells have been
established in selected ministries.
In terms of Programme Management, the following are the
specific outputs:
a)   Cornorate and Strategic Plans - Initial corporate
plans have been prepared for 4 Ministries.
officers with responsibility for corporate
planning have been appointed in 7 Ministries and
154 persons from these Ministries have received



- 139 -
training in Corporate/Strategic Planning
Methodology.
b) The Post Classification system is now 80%
completed.
55 persons have participated in workshops on the
points factor Job Evaluation system. A target
date of 31/12/91 was set for the application of
this system to the Ministry of the Public service.
c)   Limited progress has been achieved with developing
the Programme to recruit. train and retain staff
for V=ject inRlementation and g2neral ad_inistra-
ZJgz. Marginal success has also been achieved in
systematic recruitment and training of
administrative cadres. Some management upgrading
is being done through courses offered'at the
Administrative Staff College (ASC) and the Finance
and Accounting College (FACT).
d)   Review of the organisational systems, procedures
and fee structure have been undertaken in respect
of the Registrar General's Department, office of
the Registrar of Companies, Town Planning
Department and Post and Telegraphs Department.
Plans for implementation have been drafted and
some reform activity has commenced. Training
workshops in interpersonal skills customer service
and team building were conducted for some members
of staff of the Inland Revenue, Registrar General,



- 140 -
Customs and Excise and Post and Telecommunication
Departments. A total of 237 participants were
involved.
10.6 Variancs
The period of Interim programme extended beyond the
time planned.
The Debt Monitoring System is not yet in full use due
to lack of trained user personnel.
The Post Classification System is only 80t completed.
10.7 Riaks
The planning of an Interim Programme takes longer than
is frequently projected. The effectiveness of these plans
are also conditioned by the support received from key
executive managers.
10.8 8ustainabili4t
Personnel have been identified to carry out the
implementation of specific aspects of the programme. Hands-
on training has been received by these officers through
working with consultants. Close agency/consultant
cooperation and liaison on reform activities has also been a
major benefit to reform activity. This has resulted in
skills transfers. Workshops have been held with officers in
critical areas of programme management. The programme has
obtained the support of successive political directorates



- 141 -
which have mobilised resources.
Reform cells have been established in some ministries.
This should lead to greater ownership of the reform
processes.
10.9 Lessons Learnt
(1) The experience of Phase 2 was integrated into the
planning of the Interim Programme.
(2) Full support of the key executive managers are
critical to the achievement of the reform
initiatives.
(3) The institutionalisation of the Reform Process
requires changes in several laws and governing
procedures.
(4) The completion of the classification exercise and
the alignment of adequate pay scales of all
positions are critical to improving the operations
of the public service.



