Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB163
Project Name              SOUTH AFRICA-THE GREATER ADDO ELEPHANT NATIONAL PARK
PROJECT
Region                    Africa Regional Office
Sector                    General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                     Environmental policies and institutions (P); Biodiversity (P); Other environmuent
and natural resources management (S)
Project                  P064438
Borrower(s)               GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA
Implementing Agency(ies)
South African National Parks
Address: P.O. Box 787, Groenkloof, 0027, South Africa
Contact Person: Dr. Michael Knight
Tel: 27-41-508-412  Fax: 27-41-5085415   Email: mknight@upe.ac.za
Environment Category      B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared         July 18, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date       August 8, 2002
Bank Approval Date        November 25, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Key sectoral issues and government strategies:
Issue 1. Low economic growth and employment, poverty and inequality. In the Eastern Cape
province, more than half of all households live below the poverty line. Almost one-third of the
provincial population is below the age of 15 years, suggesting continued high population growth
in the future. An estimated 39% of the provincial labor force of 3.9 million (in the 16-64 year
group) is unemployed. Conventional livestock farms in the project area generally employ no
more than 1 worker per 367 ha, and up to 50% of existing farms are vacant. Monthly wages on
the most profitable commercial farms average only US$36-US$56 per month. The more
productive and profitable daiiy and citrus farms are located near the coast rather than inland in
the further reaches of the project area. Economic growth alone will not be sufficient to reduce
chronic poverty and inequality to more acceptable levels. Disadvantaged people need greater
access to education and natural resources (especially clean air and water). Also, these social
groups need better opportLnities to share in the benefits from natural resource development,
including mining, forestry, and tourism.
Government strategy. The government has introduced a number of initiatives to address low
economic growth and employment in the Eastem Cape province. Priority in government
spending is on basic infrastructure and social services. For example, 83% of the Eastern Cape's
budget is spent on Health, Welfare and Education. The Nelson Mandela metropole is proposing
to undertake an impact study to design a realistic and effective intervention strategy for the
HIV/AIDS problem. The governmenit is trying to attract foreign and domestic investment to
expand the local economy, generate foreign exchange and provide employment; examples
include the Greater Fish River and East London Spatial Development Initiative, and the Coega



2
PID
Industrial Development Zone, located on the edge of the proposed GAENP. The Working for
Water and Poverty Relief program is targeting poorer provinces by providing investment to
ecotourism infrastructure and the employment of local communities in public works programs.
The Eastern Cape province will receive over $9 million from these programs over the next three
years. Government has reduced unsustainable subsidies to the agricultural sector, which is
encouraging some farmers to convert land presently used for grazing (with negative impacts on
the environment) to more environimenitally compatible and economically efficient uses such as
hunting and ecotourism. South Africa's White Paper on tourism targets the sector as a key
growth sector. Nationally, tourism is currently growing at over 5% per annum and a target has
been set to generate 10% of GDP from tourism in the near future. The Eastern Cape has been
identified as a prime location in which to stimulate and support ecotourism. SANParks is
increasingly focusing on the social ecology components of parks and designing them to benefit
neighboring communities through great access to resources and benefit sharing. Further, the
private sector is being invited to manage facilities especially at the upper end of the tourism
market, which will generate local employment and income. The GAENP project fits well with
this national strategy.
Issue 2. Conservation of natural resources as basis for sustainable development. Environment is
a cornerstone of the economy encompassing mining, agriculture, forestry, and nature-based
tourism. There is considerable scope for growth in all these sectors, especially tourism. At the
same time, serious concerns exist about land degradation, loss of biodiversity, water scarcity and
poor quality of water in some areas, coastal zone degradation, solid waste management, air
pollution, and inappropriate development from poor regional planning. Environmental problems,
if not addressed, will hinder longer-term economic and social development in the country. In
addition, environmental degradation affects the poor most of all because of their high
dependency on natural resources for livelihoods.
The project area contains two of the world's 25 biodiversity hotspots, making it unique both in
South Africa and globally. Further, the area contains valuable cultural property such as rock art
and artifacts, which need better management and protection. The primary land-use has
historically been for grazing on marginal agricultural land. This has placed considerable pressure
on much of the area and land degradation is evident in the lower rainfall areas. However, given
the inherently low productivity of land for agriculture and the resulting unprofitable nature of
traditional agriculture in the Eastern Cape, farms are getting larger as they shift towards more
extensive practices. Depopulation is occurring with fewer owners and staff on farms, and there
has been a movement towards game farming and commercial hunting. While this has been a
provincial-wide response, it is not taking place at the pace required in the project area to allow
sufficient boundary expansion to sustain the growing population of elephants, as well as the
re-introduction of key big game species. Without this boundary expansion, coupled with
re-introduction of major game species and ecosystem management, the conservation of globally
significant biodiversity will be at risk. The marine resources in this area are under considerable
pressure from recreational angling, pollution, and commercial fishing operations in and around
the MPA. Illegal harvesting of abalone by organized syndicates and individuals is becoming a
serious issue, far outstripping the legal harvest worth US$65,000 in 2002.



3
PID
Government strategy. Government strategy hias been fairly comprehensive through a series of
reforms, which are designed to: (1) enable economic growth while protecting biodiversity; (2)
protect biodiversity and the countly's natural resource base since half of the population still lives
in rural areas and depend on clean river water, fuel wood, plants for medicinal use, and
subsistence agriculture for survival; (3) meet international commitment to conserve biodiversity
and the environtment; (4) place people at the center of development; and (5) effectively promote
integrated ecosystem management in order to achieve these objectives. Over the next ten years,
the government is planning to increase the total land area under protected management in South
Africa from the current 6-8%, to the international norm of 10%. South Africa has ratified
international conventions aimed at conservinig biodiversity (CBD) and begun to fulfill its
obligations; preventing trade in endangered species (CITES); reversing land degradation
(UNCCD), etc. The government has introduced new legislation to promote sustainable
development through its National Environmental Management Act (1998). New National
Biodiversity, and Protected Areas Acts will be promulgated in 2003, to enable new approaches
for protecting biodiversity and promoting sustainable use. On the marine side, a White Paper for
Sustainable Coastal Development (2000) has been produced to guide proper coastal protection.
This will help manage the incorporation of the proposed Addo MPA into the GAENP.
SANParks is currently negotiating with Marine and Coastal Management (DEAT) to draw up a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) regarding shifting specific management responsibilities
in the proposed MPA to SANParks, especially with monitoring and enforcement. SANParks will
be appointing a Marine Coordinator and a specialist from the SANParks poaching unit in 2003 to
assist the GAENP team with MPA planning and coordination.
Issue 3. Institutional structures. capacity, and governance for natural resources/biodiversity.
Concerns exist over national as well as sub-national institutional structures, capacity and
governance with respect to natural resource management. These concerns include inadequate
local participation in resource management planning and program implementation; weak
management capacity, insufficient coordination among relevant government organizations; and
poor program monitoring procedures. National Parks in South Africa have historically been
constrained by low finance, and to some extent insufficient numbers of trained staff, outdated
management systems, and governance structures. Protected areas such as AENP are slowly
expanding revenues to meet operating costs, fund strategic investments in infrastructure and land
acquisition, and provide services to the high standard demanded by visitors. However, without
GEF support, it will be difficult for the Park to develop a solid and sustainable financial
foundation, as well as achievinig expansioni to the desired level to conserve globally important
biodiversity.
Government strategy. Within protected area management in South Africa, the need to reform
and strengthen institutions has been recognized. While the forthcoming National Biodiversity
Act, and Protected Areas Act provide policy guidance in this regard, SANParks will increasingly
focus on its core objective of national biodiversity conservation and integrated ecosystem
management, while improving financial performance. A major organizational strategy was
designed and implemented in 2002 to help achieve these objectives (see Annex 16 on



4
PID
performance of SANParks in meeting its mandate).Management consultants assisted with this
process through a performance audit of SANParks. One result of the new strategy is increased
outsourcing of non-core functions, rationalized tariff structures, dedicated fund-raising units, and
streamlining. Restructuring has reduced staff numbers by 12% and increased operating
efficiencies. Revenue generation has improved and a deficit position of US$2.7 million two
years ago has now been tLrned into a modest operating surplus of US$0.7. New initiatives
approved by the government (and integrated into the project), will help National Park managers
meet strategic conservation goals by entering into various incentive-based arrangements with
sulTounding land owners. T'hese inniovative alternatives to outright land purchase can increase the
area under conservation while using finanicial resources more efficiently. Committees involving
stakeholders are being established across the counthy as part of the new park governance regime.
Parks are expected to be more consultative; ensuring community support is regarded as critical
for future success. Parks are also viewed as a key mechanism to contribute towards community
development and improved local livelihoods. The capacity of government and SANParks has
been recognized as needing strengtheninig in some areas to better deliver on its mandate.
Priorities identified to date include the installation of new environmental management systems,
the introduction of electronic information systems, using GIS to better design and manage parks
and conservation areas, and increased public education, awareness, and participation. Training
associated with each of these priorities is also needed.
2. Objectives
The project 's development objective is to establish a megabiodiversity conservation area around
the existing Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) where ecosystem degradation and loss of
natural resources is now beginning to impact on biodiversity. The project will support innovative
conservation and development models involving landowners, communities and the private sector
in National Park operations. The project will help avert further loss of terrestrial and marine
biodiversity, and improve local livelihoods through an integrated and replicable management
approach.
Global environmental objective. The global environmental objective of the project is to conserve
a significant representation of five of the country's seven terrestrial biomes and one of the
country's three marine provinces, including globally important biodiversity, through enhanced
protected area and ecosystem managemiienit in a single National Park. The project will address
threats and root causes of biodiversity degradation across a wide range of landscapes, and
terrestrial and aquatic systems.
Background to the project area and project
The project is located in the Eastern Cape Province, situated along the eastern seaboard of South
Africa. The province is the second largest in South Africa and comprises 24% of the surface area
of the country. The province is situated in a climatic transition zone with rainfall ranging from
250 mm in lowland areas to 900 mm per annum on high mountain peaks. The relief is varied and
comprises coastal dunes, river valleys, mountains and a plateau. The undulating terrain means
that only 4% of the surface area is used for agriculture, mainly grazing. Agricultural lands are
generally of lower productivity classes.



5
PID
The province has a population of 6.7 millioni people out of a national total of 40 million and is
experiencing high annual population growth. The province lags behind most other parts of the
country in terms of socioeconomic development, with average Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
per capita at 50% of the national figure. Approximately 57% of all households live in poverty.
The Eastern Cape's economic base is less diverse than in other provinces and is centered around
agriculture, manufacturing and industry, although tourism is becoming a more important sector in
many niral areas. While traditional agriculture is in decline, ecotourism is growing and can offer
a productive land-use alternative. Secondary industry is focused around motor vehicle
manufacturing, largely around the main commercial centers of Port Elizabeth, Uitenhague and
East London. The proposed Coega Harbor development east of Port Elizabeth is expected to
enhance economic expansion in this area, through container traffic and a possible aluminium
smelter.
The Eastern Cape Provincial government has had to amalgamate former so-called homelands
including the Ciskei and Transkei, together with administrations from South Africa. This has
proven to be a difficult task and provincial and local governments are generally regarded as weak
in terms of staff numbers and technical capacities.
South Africa is considered a megadiversity country (CI) primarily due to its floristic variation
and high levels of endemism. South Africa's plant diversity is estimated at over 23,000 species,
representing at least 9% of the global total. Two of the world's 25 threatened biodiversity
hotspots are found within the country's bouLndaries. These include the Succulent Karoo Biome
and the Cape Floral Kingdom, portions of which are found within the project area. The project
area also contains the so-called Albany center of plant endemism, which is located in the Thicket
biome. This biome, whiclh is confinied to South Africa, has some of the highest levels of
endemism globally per km. The project area also contains six out of South Africa's seven plant
biomes making it a unique and critical transition zone to conserve. Terrestrial biodiversity is
under threat from land uses such as agriculture, which is causing land degradation, but also from
the loss of key species in the ecosystem including major herbivores and carnivores. It is for these
reasons that two other GEF activities are focused on the region. The Thicket Biome Project will
develop a bioregional plan for the greater area, while the Conservation Farming Project will
develop broad land-use models, and research how farmers can change from traditional (and
environmentally degrading) agricultural practices to those of lower impact and higher economic
value. This land-use change is particularly important as a buffer on the edges of areas requiring
protective management. [n the marine enviromnent bounded by the proposed Marine Protected
Area, over 11,000 species have been found, of which 3,500 are endemic. Algoa Bay contains
10% of South Africa's population of humpback dolphins. Two island groups within Algoa Bay
(Bird islands and St. Croix group) are of great historical and conservation value. Over-harvesting
of marine resources is a key cause of biodiversity loss.
The Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) was established in 1931 and currently covers
approximately 157,000 ha. It is a main tourism attraction in the province, attracting 120,000
visitors in 2002 (50% foreign). Tourism only impacts on II percent of the Park area at present.
lncomes from ecotourism are significant; studies in 1995 estimated total revenues from tourism
in AENP were between US$83 and US$I10 million. At a micro-level, total gross income/ha



6
PID
from ecotourism can be as much as four times higher than for pastoralism. A strong case can also
be made that the environmental impacts from ecotourism are considerably less than agriculture in
the area, especially farming that is based on high chemical inputs. The Eastern Cape's 800 km of
coastline supports a small fishing industry based on squid, sardines, hake, kingklip and crayfish.
Mariculture ventures produce abalone and oysters for export, mainly to the Far East. In the Algoa
Bay project area, the dune coast provides high tourism potential for beach activities, boating,
whale and shark watching, recreational fishing, and diving.
The aim of the project is to incr-ease the area under conservation within the current AENP, into
the Greater Addo Elephant National Park (GAENP), including terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
Over six years, the project will seek to protect the area of globally significant biodiversity
through land acquisition under new forms of partnerships with private lana owners. Only a very
small percentage of land in the project area falls under communal land tenure. An estimated
27,000 people live in the broader project planning domain (including towns), however the
population density around the Park and proposed area of expansion is very low. It is estimated
that approximately 545 people, mainly farm workers and their families, could be affected by
initial Park expansion years I and 2. In years 3-6, another 2,723 people could be impacted by
expansion. These figures however, reflect the worst-case scenario with all prospective lands
being purchased by SANParks and simply added to the Park without new economic
development. Various options have been developed for resettlement as per the Resettlement
Policy Framework and Resettlement Action Plans.
It is within this context that the South African Government has identified this project as one of its
key deliverable initiatives in the Eastern Cape and requested World Bank and GEF assistance.
The overall investment in this project will be approximately US$39.6 million with approximately
US$5.5 million coming from GEF, US$6,5 million from private sector and the remainder
primarily from government and the South African National Parks (SANParks). This provides an
excellent leveraging ratio for GEF funds of 1:6.3.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Based on the success of previous and current Bank engagement in South Africa, the Banlc is in a
strong position to assist with implementation of this project. The aim of this assistance is to
*   Develop and implement sustainable resource use policies, which will be targeted at
communities living in areas to be incorporated into the park or in surrounding areas.
*   Incorporate experiences and lessons learned from other GEF regional biodiversity
proj ects.
*   Develop a resettlement policy for GAENP based on Bank safeguard policies for
involuntary resettlement, thus ensuring people are fairly and fully compensated.
*   Build on successes and experiences gained from the support to the Cape Peninsula
National Park, to support the development of cost effective institutional and governance
arrangements for park and project management. These will serve as best practice to be
rolled out across SANParks.
*   Continue to attract co-funding by building relationships with government and other
partners to leverage additional funds to the project.



7
PID
4. Description
Project Vision
The project has identified five inter-related components to protect the exceptional terrestrial and
marine biodiversity of the Addo region througlh strategic conservation planning and
implementation, innovative land iincolporationi and development planning, and social capacity
building. Over the six years of the project, the total Park area will likely increase to cover about
237,000 ha of terrestrial (Table I) and 100,000 ha of marine habitat. During the project, the
majority of land acquisition will be through new contractual arrangements and gradually reduce
the ratio of purchased/contractual land form 87/13 to 72/28.
Table 1. Land acquisition planned under the GAENP
Time Frame     Purchased Land  Contractual Land  Total Land (ha) Purchased/Contrac
(ha)            (ha)                            tual
Present time              136,859          20,085         156,944     87/13
End of project            170,337          66,337         236,674     72/28
Increment from             33,478         46,252           79,73      42/58
project         I____
The current AENP is a mosaic of landscapes, which are not completely contiguous. The
long-term vision is that of a Park with a single fenced area for wildlife, but significantly larger
than at present. The project will achieve this vision by consolidating existing park areas through
highly strategic land acquisition, focusing on priority parcels identified using a range of criteria,
but in particular, potential conservation values. Given the need to address broader goals of
greater public participation, expanded tourism development with private-public partnerships, and
increased social development in the region, a cautious and phased approach is warranted. Park
expansion is planned over five phases (see Figure 1. Each phase would focus on a specific block
of the Park, and include boundary expansion, fencing, wildlife management, tourism
development and social development. When all five phases are completed, many of the fences
separating each of the five blocks will be removed, thus consolidating one single large Park with
expanded wildlife range and well-developed tourism products. A marine protected area of
100,000 would be added in Algoa Bay to complete the vision of a contiguous Park spanning
several terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
Figure 1.



8
PID
Addo Elephant National Park:
Expansi n oft egam               area
X        ~~~Existing Areaf 
~~Tn  .
- Present Reserve  Stages
lZ  Category Two Parks F7 Existing Area
-   Majol Roads  f  Ono
| TWO
1   rThree
[    Foujr
COMPONENT 1: CONSER VA TION PLANNING
This is concerned vithi tlhe plannintg and ntonitoringftameworkfor the long-terin
conservation of the utnique assemblage of biodiversity in the region and the arrest of
en vironm ental degradlationl.
This component builds on the conservation planning exercise largely undertaken during the
preparation phase of the project and forms the biological basis for the implementation phase. The
preparatory studies focused on the systematic conservation planning exercise, freshwater
conservation, proposed marine protected area (MPA), and ecological monitoring of the marine
environment. The five sub-components each largely deal with park planning and will form part
of the overall Integrated Environmental Management System (IEMS).
i) Conservation Plan:
This sub-component will update the terrestrial, aquatic, marine, and cultural databases produced
during preparation, and subsequent studies, and amend the drafted conservation plan as required
to help conservation science better direct conservation management. Selected research projects
will be identified and commissioned, monitored and evaluated under this component as part of
the ongoing maintenance of the Conservation Plan. Issues concerning zonation, surrounding



9
PID
land-use, contractual incorporation and business arrangements will be further negotiated, with
action plans prepared for implemenitation.
ii) Strategic (Development) Plan:
Based primarily on the above informiation, a costed and phased strategic development plan will
be produced to guide the Park for the next six years. It will indicate the preferred development
zones (as part of the Zonation Plan), rehabilitation areas, as well as infrastructure (roads, fences,
buildings, visitor facilities) within the Park. In addition, it will address the redefinition of an
upgraded SANParks management structure for the Park, plus the development of a
re-introduction plan for key game species.
iii) Park Management Plan:
A Park Management Plan (procedures and policies) will be drafted as part of the IEMS to
facilitate more effective and efficient daily management. It will include clear and measurable
deliverables, which will be monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
iv) Monitoring System and Research:
Key baseline information is needed, for example in the biophysical and socioeconomic
environments to. monitor the internal and external impact of the development of the Park, and
other management actions on the community, economy and environment. To acquire baseline
information from terrestrial and marine areas, the biophysical and socioeconomic elements that
need to be monitored will first be identified and approved, then data will be collected based on
sound scientific protocols and best-practice. The project Business Plan for year 1, set out in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), has already identified a number of result indicators whereby
monitoring and evaluation for the social objectives can take place.
v) Marine Protected Area (MPA):
To facilitate the proclamation of the Addo Marine Protected Area (MPA), a marine planning
framework will be developed through consultations with all relevant stakeholders. An
implementation plan will then be prepared once all required negotiations have been conducted
and approvals obtained. Legal studies will be undertaken to address potential conflicts between
current terrestrial and marine conservation legislation. A social assessment will be undertaken to
evaluate the impact of the MPA on current users as part of the marine planning framework.
GEF: $0,345 million Co-financing: $0,553 million Total: $0,898 million
COMPONENT 2: IMPLEMENTA TION
The imnplententation of the development plan including ecological management,
infrastructure and land incorporation, and socioeconomic capacity building.
Implementation will occur in three different management scenarios: 1) SANParks land owned
and managed by SANParks, 2) concessioned areas within SANParks land and 3) contractual land
adjoining the Park where SANParks may or may not manage the land. The three
sub-components will roll out of the development plan, inclusive of ecological management,



10
PID
infrastructure development and land incorporation, to ensure effective implementation of the
development plan.
i) SANParks/Park Environmental Infrastructure Provision:
This sub-component focuses on the implementation of the development plan. Development
within identified zones will follow a plan, and investments will include all fixed infrastructure
(roads, fences, water provision, conservation center, heritage sites, waste management systems,
alien control, EMP and rehabilitation plans).
ii) Land Incorporation:
Land will be incorporated into the Park depending upon: its relative value with respect to
enhancing ecological integrity and biological representativeness and biodiversity; improving
local socioeconomic conditions and minimizing costs of acquisition (including resettlement); and
the potential to reduce threats to biological integrity. Options for land acquisition include direct
purchasing, contractual arrangements, management agreements, buffer arrangements, and
expropriation. A prioritization matrix for the incorporation option has been developed for
SANParks. The Conservationi Plan developed in the preparatory phase helped define the strategic
incorporation zones but will need constant refinement as new information and assessment
techniques are developed (see Component 1).
iii) Incentive Contracting Partnerships:
Incentives will be offered to induce land owners to convert high priority areas to away from
marginal agriculture to conservation, according to the relative value of the land for biodiversity
conservation. Incentives could include legal recognition, traversing rights, management inputs,
extension services, fencing support, tax exemptions and consumption of game.
GEF: $2,945 million Co-Financing: $21,420 million Total: 24,365 million
COMPONENT 3: INSTITUTION & GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES
The development of iltstitutions antd governanzce structures to ensure the successful
implenmentation of the A ddo project and mytanagement of the park.
This component includes thie design, implementation and maintenance of management systems
and structures to enhance park management and strengthening/creating institutional structures for
effective, participatory Park planniing and program implementation.
i) Integrated Environmental Management System (lEMS):
An IEMS based on ISO14000 will be developed to enhance Park environmental and general
management. Technology and expeltise developed in the GEF-financed Cape Peninsula National
Park project will be used in developing the Addo IEMS. The EEMS will include the development
of corporate policies and park specific policies, the strategic development plan, procedures,
monitoring indicators, review and auditing procedures.
ii) GAENP Management Structures:



11
PID
Based on the developmental plan and the extent to which concessions will be introduced, a new
GAENP management structure will be developed and approved by SANParks for
implementation for the day-to-day management of the expanded Park. The existing Park Steering
Committee (PSC) will be reviewed and restrmctured in line with SANParks strategy for overall
governance of the GAENP. The PSC's prime function would be to provide high level oversight
function for the park, project and the Project Management Unit (PMU), to ensure compliance
with the project's goals and GEF grant funding agreement. It is envisaged that as the park
management plan development is initiated, the Addo Planning Forum (APF) will be adapted and
transformed to form a dedicated Park Committee (PC). This activity will follow the procedure
accepted by the SANParks Board in 1999.
iii) Project Management Unit (PM U):
An outsourced PMU consisting of project management, procurement, and administrative
funictions will be appointed to execute the project on a daily basis. The unit will work closely
with GAENP staff but under supervision of the PSC, and particularly that of the GAENP
Coordinator. Financial management will be provided through SANParks staff and systems.
iv) Park Business Plan:
A business plan will be prepared, which models the financial requirements of the Park including
income and expenditure, and which provides a basis for adjusting to the roll out of the
Development Plan from the PIP. Initially, a year-one business plan will be drafted with financial
budgets, followed by a full plan, utilizing consultants under PMIU and PSC guidance. The ftill
business plan will take into consideration the deliverables of the PIP inclusive of detailed action
plans, responsibilities, measurables and financials. The business plan will be reviewed annually
as the project is implemented.
v) Management Information and Reporting System (MIRS):
An electronic hardware and software system will be designed and implemented to manage the
IEMS. The MIRS will be database driven, producing reports in conformance with the
requirements of the governance structures of the project, plus the management of the GAENP. A
GIS officer will be appointed by SANParks to oversee the necessary databases and generate the
required reports in consultation with the PMU. The design and implementation of the MIRS will
be coordinated by the PMU, utilizing services of suitable providers.
vi) Training Programs:
Training programs will help staff apply thie previous new systems and technologies, and build a
clearer understanding of policies and operational procedures contained in the IEMS. A training
needs analysis for new and existing staff will identify required training to implement with the
new requirements posed by monitoring systems, environmental and cultural management,
business and financial management, socioecology, communication and public information, and
HIV-AIDS awareness. Training needs will be matched with suitable activity-related courses, and
staff enrolled accordingly. Staff will be monitored on completion of training to ensure
conformance with new systems and usefulness of training programs. Training for non-SANPark
staff will be addressed in Component 4.



12
PID
GEF: $1,620 million Co-Financing: $2,097 million Total: $3,717 million
COMPONENT 4: COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT & SOCIAL ECOLOGY
The park should benefit communities tltrough enabling managed access to natural
resources, access to employm eut, mInicro enterprise opportunities, training and
environmental educationr.
This component will support implementation of the Park development plan where it relates to
employment and economic benefits thi-ough communal conservation strategies, Small, Medium
and Micro Enterprise (SMME) opportunities, environmental education and fair resettlement of
displaced communities and individuals. This component will forge the benefits of sustainable
natural resource use with social upliftment, particularly of previously disadvantaged sectors of
society.
i) Access to Natural and Cultural Resources:
Although a preliminary survey was completed during project preparation, the project will finance
further research to better understand the scope and importance of important cultural sites and
resources within the Park boundaries. In addition, a policy guiding managed access to these
resources, in compliance with SANParIcs policies, will be developed and implemented for the
park. This would also meet the requirements of the Bank's safeguards for cultural resources
(OPN 11.03 and OP 4.11).
ii) Access to employment:
Members of local communities, and in particular displaced people, will be given priority for new
jobs created through the project directly and through expanded ecotourism development. In
addition, these individuals will be offered training opportunities to help them benefit from new
employment opportunities in the Park. As part of this process, a database and suitable policy
framework are needed. The SANParks national policy on Social Ecology will be modified to suit
the GAENP project in relation to meeting Bank safeguard requirements on involuntary
resettlement. Available employment data/databases will be acquired from local government for
analysis to match with GAENP employment opportunities. The Resettlement Policy Framework
and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) will provide useful baseline information about
individuals affected by farm conver-sion that can feed into employment programs. Gaps in the
database, such as skills analysis, will be identified and corrected.
iii) Employment and Economic Benefits Based on Communal Conservation Strategies:
Employment opportunities for local people will identified in ecotourism, small works supporting
the roll-out of park infrastructure, and sustainiable harvesting. Analyses will be also undertaken to
identify SMME development opportLnities within GAENP in areas such as fencing, arts and
crafts, charcoal production, ecotout-isin, alien clearing, rehabilitation, construction, and
sustainable harvesting. SMMEs will be assisted by gaining access to all available national
SMME incentive schemes. Research will be done to identify what goods and selvices to
GAENP may be sourced from SMMEs. Training of SMME staff members will be an important



13
PID
section of this component with a needs analysis having to be undertaken, with training
undertaken in identified gap areas. Such training will be coordinated where possible with that
identified in Component 3. Some employment opportunities will be through Working for Water
and Poverty Relief programs funded by the South African govemment.
iv) Conservation Education:
An environmental education (EE) program will be designed and implemented. As part of the
program, a sustainable and cost-effective education program and conservation center will be
established to support community and visitor awareness about the Park. A limited number of
tertiary scholarships (possibly two per amium) will be provided to train a cadre of new officials
fi-om the community to enter SANParks at a professional level and advance in the organization.
Relevant tertiary education courses will be identified and then a recruitment process will be
pursued to select suitable candidates for evaluation and enrolment. To ensure effective operation
of the Conservation Education Center, a number of Conservation Education Officers will be
recruited.
v) Resettlement Compensation (Resettlement):
Although the project's social objective is to ensure that the greater Addo community largely
benefits from the project, SANParks will make funds available and source opportunities in
associated projects (Work for Water, and Poverty Relief) to ensure that any local people
negatively affected by the project are fairly compensated. Site-specific criteria for compensation,
developed during project preparation as part of the Resettlement Policy Framework and
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS) will be implemented in conjunction with other government
and local government authorities responsible for restitution issues.
GEF: $0,180 million Co-Financing: $3,321 million Total: $3,501 million
COMPONENT 5: ECONOMIC DE VELOPMENT
Stimulating overall econiomic developlment in the region by creating an enabling
en vironm tent for tourism ualIl associated economlic activity.
This component will focus on enhancing the conditions for broader economic development in the
region, largely through the tourism sector and the National Park. Mainstreaming the project
objectives and achievements will be a priority to sustain the considerable support the project has
received from central government, local communities and donors.
i) Marketing and Product Development:
A marketing plan will be prepared for the Park, inclusive of existing Addo market research
information plus an MIRS module to record relevant tourism statistics. The marketing plan will
include a communication strategy, new product development, and identify prospective
ecotourism products emanating from GAENP. These identified products will be packaged on an
established web site, along with all other relevant information associated with the project (see
www.addoelephantpark.co.za). A communications/marketing officer will be recruited as part of
the new GAENP management structure.



14
PID
ii) Concessioning and Partnership:
The SANParks concessioning plan will be implemented to attract private sector investment in
ecotourism facilities in the Park. Part of this sub-component includes the development of terms
of reference, identification of contractual partners, and creating a MIRS module to feed into the
wider IEMS-MIRS.
GEF: $0,400 million Co-Financing: $6,729 million Total: $7,129 million
Note: Rounding off changes figures slightly
l. Conservation planning
2. Implementation
3. Institutional and govemance structures
4. Community development and social ecology
5. Economic development
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$ni))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($27.94)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($5.50)
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY ($6.50)
Total Project Cost: $39.94
6. Implementation
SANParks will be the lead executing agency for the project, spanning six years. Other
stakeholders that will collaborate in implementation include the provincial Department of
Economic Affairs, Enviromnent and Tourism, national government departments (Enviromnelntal
Affairs and Tourism, Land Affairs, Labor), various non-government organizations (NGOs),
community-based organizations (CBOs), the farming community, academic institutions, private
land-owners and private enterprise. Collaboration with project implementation will be effected
through the following institutions:
Project Management Unit (PMU)
An outsourced PMU consisting of three persons (project manager, procurement officer, and
administrative officer) will be established. SANParks will provide financial management
functions to the PMU. The PMU will be responsible for project implementation including: (i)
drafting and coordinating the development, management and business plans by consultants; (ii)
day-to-day management of project development and implementation; (iii) annual work plans and
budget preparation; (iv) donor coordination; (v) secretariat function for the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) and the Addo Plamu'ng Forum (APF); (vi) financial management including
establishing a financial management system, withdrawal applications, financial reporting,
procurement of consultants, goods, and services; (vii) establishing the Park Committee (PC);
(viii) reporting via a new Mianagemenit tnformation Reporting System (MIRS).
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
The PSC will provide a high-level oversight function for project implementation according to the
requirements of the GAENP, the vision for the Park, Bank requirements, and the GEF Grant



15
PID
Agreement. It will therefore ensure full integration of project development into Park management
activities and provide a holistic and well-coordinated management platform. The PSC will meet
approximately every 6 months to review project progress and agree to the proposed project
deliverables for the following 6 months. The PSC will be chaired by a senior SANParks official
(either the GAENP Park Manager or GAENP Park Coordinator). The PSC composition is
expected to be mainly SANParks personnel including: (i) The PMU Project Manager (ii) Park
Manager, team leaders of the working groups (and section rangers, financial, tourism
representation as required); (iii) SANParks GAENP Coordinator; (iv) Head: SANParks Park
Planning; (v) Poverty Relief & Work-for-Water coordinator; (vi) SANParks Manager:
Commercial Development; (vii) contractual park representative; (viii) representative from
Provincial DEAT; (ix) representative from APF and later the Park Committee (PC).
Project Working Groups (PWG)
The PWGs, comprising of 4-10 people, will be tasked with execution of the key project
components by the Project Manager. They will play a crucial role in integrating the project
activities into ongoing work of the Park organization and staff. A specific structure is not
required at this stage; working groups will be formed as needed and dissolved as the assigned
activity is completed. Members will be co-opted as needed but in general will include the Project
Manager, a senior working group leader (preferably drawn from Park management), SANParks
staff, government officials and any other key organizations or individuals.
Park Committee (PC)
It is envisaged that as the Park management plan development proceeds, the existing Addo
Planning Fonim will be transformed into a dedicated Park Committee. The establishment of the
PC will follow the procedure accepted by SANParks in 1999 and entails the nomination of local
stakeholders through an independent consultative process. This process will commence during
project implementation phase. Other structures are also envisaged and may include the creation
of land-owner committees thl-ouglh whichi the Park management will work in order to enter into
land incorporation and management agreements to achieve project objectives.
Resettlement Working Group (RWG)
The RWG will deal with all relevant issues associated with the resettlement of affected farm
worlcers. The functions of the RWG include: acting as an advisory and oversight body to
SANParks in matters relating to resettlement; serving as court of first appeal to solve any arising
problems; and assisting SANParks in overseeing all the phases of the resettlement process,
including the allocation of jobs and genieration of livelihoods, compensation and other benefits.
The RWG composition includes: (i) farm workers representatives (affected by Phase 1, from
1997-2003 phase); (ii) designated SANParks representative responsible; (iii) a representative of
each of the following departments of the Government of the Eastern Cape : Land Affairs,
Agriculture, Tourism; (iv) a representative of the Resettlement Monitoring Team, when it is on
site; (v) a representative from surrounding famns/agriculture; and (vi) a resettlement expert. They
will meet twice a year or more often as needed.
Financial Management
Financial management assessment



16
PID
SANParks will provide financial management functions to the PMU. A financial self-assessment
has been completed and indicates high compatibility between Banlc guidelines and requirements,
and the SANParks financial management systems. SANParks has demonstrated excellent
financial management performance in other Bank/GEF projects.
Project monitoring, evaluation, and management reports
The PMU will produce Project Management Reports (PMRs) that reflect project performance,
including expenditures, against the overall logframe indicators presented in Annex 1. Other key
monitoring systems will include the production of six-month project progress reports to the Bank
prior to supervision missions, as well as routine SANParks and national and provincial data,
whichi will indicate whether the project is achieving its goals or not. The PSC will also perform a
monitoring role by assessing project progress reports. General civil society monitoring will take
place via the APF and PC, while resettlement issues will be monitored through the RWG. Where
specific sub-components require detailed monitoring and evaluation (such as land incorporation),
more detailed systems will be developed. The delivery of project components will from a quality
perspective, be subject to the initial scrutiny and approval of PWGs. An external mid-term
review will be undertaken at the conclusion of year 3.
Audit arrangements
External audits will be procured on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Annual audited
financial statements of the project will be pirovided to the Bank within 6 months after the end of
each fiscal year, and also at closing of the project.
7. Sustainability
This project will strengthen conditions for protected area management and biodiversity
conservation in the Addo Elephant National Park area, with a well-defined component to
improve local livelihoods through ecotourism development. Several factors are linked to
sustainability. First, institutional sustainability is important and is being pursued by the initial
building of a consensus on project design and scope with a wide range of stakeholders and
strengthening a participatory process. Appropriate institutions are being used in the project to
facilitate long-term local participation in Park planning and management. The lead executing
agency SANParks, has been undergoing business re-engineering processes in the past few years
with demonstrated success in improving operating efficiencies. The project is designed to ensure
that staff from the GAENP will participate in project execution through the Project Steering
Committee and the proposed Project Working Groups. This will ensure that the project is well
integrated into the Park operations and that a seamless transition is made from the project
deliverables to their incorporation into routine park operations.
Second,financial sustainability is critical to ensure that the achievements from project
investments can be maintained in the longer-term. The project is designed with post-GEF closure
in mind; investments will generate improved income streams over time at both the executing
agency and local community levels. Financial simulations indicate that project investments will
enable the Park to be finanicially indepenidenit by year 6, with an operating surplus of over
US$200,000 per annum. At the local level, the project will build conditions for increased private
sector investment in ecotourism, creating sustained direct and indirect employment and income



17
PID
benefits long after the project is closed. The project is attracting initial private sector investment
of US$6.5 million; this is viewed as conservative. In the long-term, there is considerable upside
potential for expanded investment to facilitate visitors the opportunity to enjoy what will be
world-class Park with unique biodiversity assets of global attraction.
Third, social sustainability is critical and is addressed through two main design elements. The
first design element will be establishing an economically viable Park, which will provide an
income and livelihood return to local residents greater than the current returns from agriculture.
This will greatly assist to enihance Support for the Park and create more stable and sustainable
livelihoods. The proposed social ecology/ community development component of the project will
lead this program. The second design element is to involve stakeholders in the Park and the
project through consultative fora to ensure that support is maintained.
Finally, environmental sustainahility is addressed through the SEA that was undertaken as part of
project preparation, and the application of South African EA processes (which meet Bank
requirements) for specific site developments during and after project implementation. The
project will improve biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource use in the area.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank, GEF, and SANParks have a wealth of experience in designing, financing, and
implementing protected area projects to meet multiple management objectives including
biodiversity conservation, community participation, private-public partnerships, social
development, and poverty alleviation. The main lessons for project design from a review of the
Bank/GEF global experience in protected area management and SANPark's local experience
include:
Use of comprehensive baseline in!fbrnzation and biodiversityprioritization
Effective protected area planning is based largely on accurate and comprehensive spatial baseline
biophysical information. SANParks has brought considerable national experience to bear in
designing this project. A thorough investigation into the terrestrial, freshwater and marine
environments has allowed critical environmental factors to be "layered" into a strategic GIS
conservation planning tool (C-Plan) and map. Minimal areas necessary to meet conservation
objectives were identified and the areas needed for conservation and ecosystem management are
therefore defensible and based on scientific rigor. C-Plan was used successfully for the first time
to provide an integrated aquatic (inclusive of marine & freshwater) and terrestrial conservation
and ecosystem planning product.
Creating effective partnerships
Positive and negative experiences with the commercialization of certain park facilities in South
Africa (such as new tourism resorts in K ruger National Park) have been evaluated and lessons
learned incorporated into project design and financial modelling. The project will build on this
experience in developing partnerships with the private sector for tourism development which will
also reduce Park costs, increase income and enhance ownership and support for the wider
GAENP. Lessons learned in other BankI/GEF financed projects suggest that a partnership for
land reallocation can be applied in this project through various methods. Allowing landowners to



18
PID
be incorporated into the Park without necessarily involving a transfer of title has a number of
benefits.
Full public participation and communuication
Active participation of project beneficiaries and other stakeholders from the initial planling
process is important to identify potential problems and solutions, generate support, and foster
lukowledge sharing. The project rationale, benefits and impacts need to be made clear from the
outset. The public participation process in the AENP has been a part of regular Park management
for some time through the APF; while historically problems were experienced, lessons have been
learned. Through the project, this process will be strengthened by the establishment of new and
more effective institutions.
Planning for long-term financial susta inability
The GEF projects should help beneficiaries develop mechanisms to improve financial
sustainability. Global experience suggests there is little justification in GEF and the government
of South Africa investing in protected area management without building capacity to generate
sufficient revenues to cover reasonable operations and maintenance budgets. The current project
has been designed to expand GAENP revenues from increased ecotourism development through
private sector partnerships and contracting out various concessions. Forecasts indicate the
GAENP will be in a strong profit situation by year 6.
Single institutional authority
Divided or unclear institutional authority has plagued other worthwhile protected area
investments both globally and locally (e.g. Dongola-Vhembe, and Pondoland). The instituLtionial
roles and responsibilities were clarified early in the AENP program and provide a strong
foundation to strengthen the institutional framework for the project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues   The project objectives are to achieve a number of positive environmental,
socioeconomic and developmental impacts. The project components will also include mitigation
measures for potential adverse effects. A Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) was
undertaken to meet Bank EA requirements. A SEA was selected instead of an EIA (with Bank
approval), as the exact location of the new Park boundaries could not be determined with great
precision during preparation. While priority lands have been identified, the specific areas
encompassed by expansion will depend on the nature and uptake of land conversion incentives
developed, negotiations, etc. A broad, forward planning instrument was needed, therefore, an
SEA was selected as an appropriate EA instrument.
The SEA evaluated the natural enviromnent in the project area, socioeconomic environment,
financial viability of the GAENP, legal and institutional framework, issues and concerns raised
through public consultation, and potential development scenarios. Following this review, a
Category B assessment was assigned because first, the project focuses on protected areas.
Second, it will have an overall positive environmental impact by reversing current trends of
natural resource degradation thlrough improved protected area management and conservation of
globally and nationally important biodiversity. Third, the project will promote more sustainable



19
PID
use of natural resources. Fourth, all sub-components involving potential impacts on the
environmlent will be subject to individual ElAs under South African EA policy and regulations as
well as Banlc requirements. These policies and regulations meet Bank EA requirements under
OP/BP/GP 4.01. Environmnental mitigation and monitoring are key elements of the South African
EA process and will be required by the Bank for the infrastructural.activities of the project.
The major potential strategic impacts from the public participation process of the SEA were:
displacement and relocation of farm workers; uncertainty about Park development; impact of the
project on farming related industries and activities; inadequate communication with affected
parties; impact on employment opportunities; impact created by the Coega industrial
development zone on the coast (not part of the project); need for socioeconomic indicators and
targets; compliance with SEA regulations; impact on dairy, beef and chicory production; impact
on mohair production; land purchase process. The key issue to emerge has been a concern by
some land owners with land incorporated into the Park and the impact on livelihoods. The
project makes detailed provision thlrouglh its design to not only address these issues but have
mutually beneficial impacts. The key instr-uments to achieve this will be the design and
implementation of an incentive fi-amework to landowners and communities to incorporate into
the GAENP as well as community development and social ecology components. A Resettlement
Policy Framework has been drafted and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are being developed
to comply with OP/BP 4.12. These will shortly be approved by the Bank safeguards team.
10. List of factual technical documents:
Please refer to Addo web-site for comprehensive listing and downloads.
http://addoelephantpark.com/downloads.htm
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Christopher James Warner
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +27 12 4313127
Fax: + 27 12 4313134
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



20
PID
Please refer to the Addo web-site for more information http://addoelephantpark.com/downloads.htm



