Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: ACl63
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/23/2003
A. Basic Project Data ('from PDS)
I.A. I. Project Statistics
Country: SOUTH AFRICA                         Project ID: P064438
Proj ect: THE GREATER ADDO ELEPHANT          Task Team Leader: Christopher James Warner
NATIONAL PARK PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: August 8, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: November 25, 2003             IDA Amount ($m):
Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 5.50
Managing Unit: AFTS I                         Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  sector (100%)
Status: GEF $5,5 million                     Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P);
Biodiversity (P); Other environ-ment and natural
resources management (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project 's development objective is to establish a megabiodiversity conservation area around
the existing Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) where ecosystem degradation and loss of
natural resources is now beginning to impact on biodiversity. The project will support innovative
conservation and development models involving landowners, communities and the private sector
in National Park operations. The project will help avert further loss of terrestrial and marine
biodiversity, and improve local livelihoods through an integrated and replicable management
approach.
Global environmental objective. The global environmental objective of the project is to conserve
a significant representation of five of the country's seven terrestrial biomes and one of the
country's three marine provinces, including globally important biodiversity, through enhanced
protected area and ecosystem management in a single National Park. The project will address
threats and root causes of biodiversity degradation across a wide range of landscapes, and
terrestrial and aquatic systems.
Background to the project area and proiect
The project is located in the Eastern Cape Province, situated along the eastern seaboard of South
Africa. The province is the second largest in South Africa and comprises 24% of the surface area
of the country. The province is situated in a climatic transition zone with rainfall ranging from
250 mm in lowland areas to 900 mm per annum on high mountain peaks. The relief is varied and
comprises coastal dunes, river valleys, mountains and a plateau. The undulating terrain means
that only 4% of the surface area is used for agriculture, mainly grazing. Agricultural lands are
generally of lower productivity classes.
The province has a population of 6.7 million people out of a national total of 40 million and is
experiencing high annual population growth. The province lags behind most other parts of the



2
ISDS
country in terms of socioeconomic development, with average Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
per capita at 50% of the national figure. Approximately 57% of all households live in poverty.
The Eastern Cape's economic base is less diverse than in other provinces and is centered around
agriculture, manufacturing and industry, although tourism is becoming a more important sector in
many rural areas. While traditional agriculture is in decline, ecotourism is growing and can offer
a productive land-use alternative. Secondary industry is focused around motor vehicle
manufacturing, largely around the maini commercial centers of Port Elizabeth, Uitenhague and
East London. The proposed Coega Harbor development east of Port Elizabeth is expected to
enhance economic expansion in this area, through container traffic and a possible aluminium
smelter.
The Eastern Cape Provincial governimenit has had to amalgamate former so-called homelands
including the Ciskei and Transkei, together with administrations from South Africa. This has
proven to be a difficult task and provincial and local governments are generally regarded as weak
in terms of staff numbers and technical capacities.
South Africa is considered a megadiversity country (CI) primarily due to its floristic variation
and high levels of endemism. South Africa's plant diversity is estimated at over 23,000 species,
representing at least 9% of the global total. Two of the world's 25 threatened biodiversity
hotspots are found within the country's boundaries. These include the Succulent Karoo Biome
and the Cape Floral KIingdom, portions of which are found within the project area. The project
area also contains the so-called Albany center of plant endemism, which is located in the Thicket
biome. This biome, which is confined to South Africa, has some of the highest levels of
endemism globally per km. Terrestrial biodiversity is under threat from land uses such as
agriculture, which is causing land degradation, but also from the loss of key species in the
ecosystem including major herbivores and carnivores. It is for these reasons that two other GEF
activities are focused on the region. The Thicket Biome Project will develop a bioregional plan
for the greater area, while the Conservation Farming Project will develop broad land-use models,
and research how farmers can chanige from traditional (and environmentally degrading)
agricultural practices to those of lower impact and higher economic value. This land-use change
is particularly important as a buffer on the ecdges of areas requiring protective management. In the
marine environment, bounded by the proposed Marine Protected Area, over 11,000 species have
been found, of which 3,500 are endemic. Algoa Bay contains 10% of South Africa's population
of humpback dolphins. Two island groups within Algoa Bay (Bird islands and St. Croix group)
are of great historical and conservation value. Over-harvesting of marine resources is a key cause
of biodiversity loss.
The Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) was established in 1931 and currently covers
approximately 157,000 ha. It is a main tourism attraction in the province, attracting 120,000
visitors in 2002 (50% foreign). Tourism only impacts on 11 percent of the Park area at present.
Incomes from ecotourism are significant; studies in 1995 estimated total revenues from tourism
in AENP were between US$83 and US$110 million. At a micro-level, total gross income/ha
from ecotourism can be as much as four times higher than for pastoralism. A strong case can also
be made that the environmental impacts from ecotourism are considerably less than agriculture in
the area, especially farming that is based on high chemical inputs. The Eastern Cape's 800 km of



3
ISDS
coastline supports a small fishilng industry based on squid, sardines, hake, kingklip and crayfish.
Mariculture ventures produce abalone and oysters for export, mainly to the Far East. hi the Algoa
Bay project area, the dune coast provides high tourism potential for beach activities, boating,
whale and shark watching, recreational fishilng, and diving.
The aim of the project is to increase the area under conservation within the current AENP, into
the Greater Addo Elephant National Park (GAENP), including terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
Over six years, the project will seek to protect the area of globally significant biodiversity
through land acquisition under new forms of partnerships with private land owners. Only a very
small percentage of land in the project area falls under communal land tenure. An estimated
27,000 people live in the broader project planning domain (including towns), however the
population density around the Park and proposed area of expansion is very low. It is estimated
that approximately 545 people, mainly farm workers and their families, could be affected by
initial Park expansion in years I and 2. In years 3-6, another 2,723 people could be impacted by
expansion. These figures however, reflect the worst-case scenario with all prospective lands
being purchased by SANParks and simply added to the Park without new economic
development. hi terms of the RPF and the RAP's SANPark's has identified d 6 options for farm
workers. These 6 options include workers being fully incorporated into SANPark's employment,
workers on existing land being employed by the farmer on a farmer's new farm, workers being
provided with land under the Land Reform Grant (under consideration) to workers being
provided with employnment through the SANPark's- Poverty Relief program. Every attempt will
be made by SANParks to incorporate workers in the Poverty Relief Program into longer term
livelihoods once the Poverty Relief Program has ended.
It is within this context that the South African Government has identified this project as one of its
key deliverable initiatives in the Eastern Cape and requested World Bank and GEF assistance.
The overall investment in this project will be approximately US$39.6 million with approximately
US$5.5 million coming from GEF, US$6,5 million from private sector and the remainder
primarily from government and the South African National Parks (SANParks). This provides an
excellent leveraging ratio for GEF funds of 1:6.3.
T.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Project Vision
The project has identified five inter-related components to protect the exceptional terrestrial and
marine biodiversity of the Addo region through strategic conservation planning and
implementation, innovative land incorporation and development planning, and social capacity
building. Over the six years of the project, the total Park area will likely increase to cover about
237,000 ha of terrestrial (Table 1) and 100,000 ha of marine habitat. During the project, the
majority of land acquisition will be through new contractual arrangements and gradually reduce
the ratio of purchased/contractual land form 87/13 to 72/28.
Table 1. Land acquisition planned under the GAENP
Time Frame    Purchased Land  Contractual Land  Total Land (ha) Purchased/Contr-ac
(ha)            (ha)                           tual
Present time             136,859          20,085         156,944     87/13



4
ISDS
End of project            170,337          66,3371        236,674      72/28
Increment from             33,478          46,252          79,730      42/58
project
The current AENP is a mosaic of landscapes, which are not completely contiguous. The
long-term vision is that of a Park with a single fenced area for wildlife, but significantly larger
than at present. The project will achieve this vision by consolidating existing park areas through
highly strategic land acquisition, focusing on priority parcels identified using a range of criteria,
but in particular, potential conservation values. Given the need to address broader goals of
greater public participation, expanded tourism development with private-public partnerships, and
increased social development in the region, a cautious and phased approach is warranted. Park
expansion is planned over five phases (see Figure 1). Each phase would focus on a specific
block of the Park, and include boundary expansion, fencing, wildlife management, tourism
development and social development. Wheni all five phases are completed, many of the fences
separating each of the five blocks will be removed, thus consolidating one single large Park with
expanded wildlife range and well-developed tourism products. A marine protected area of
100,000 would be added in Algoa Bay to complete the vision of a contiguous Park spanning
several terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
Figure 1.
Addo Elephant National Park:
Expansi n ofthe gam              area
- *.,ret            r-Ae
0 5 1020 Kiome ersX       :! 
, I,, 10                    wf^_5         " ~
Present Reservo Stages
j Category Two Parks 7] Existing Area
Major Roais  F   One
F71 Two
n)flree
7 Four
Fiva



5
ISDS
COMPONENT 1: CONSER VA TION PLANNING
This is concerned wit/h the planinii,g and mnonitoringfranteworkfor the long-termn
conservationz of the uinique assemblage of biodiversity in the region and the arrest of
environmental degradation.
This component builds on the conservation planning exercise largely undertaken during the
preparation phase of the project and forms the biological basis for the implementation phase. The
preparatory studies focused on the systematic conservation planning exercise, freshwater
conservation, proposed marine protected area (MPA), and ecological monitoring of the marine
environment.The five sub-components each largely deal with park planning and will form part
of the overall Integrated Environmnental Manageme'nt System (IEMS).
i) Conservation Plan:
This sub-component will update the terrestrial, aquatic, marine, and cultural databases produced
during preparation, and subsequent studies, and amend the drafted conservation plan as required
to help conservation science better direct conservation management. Selected research projects
will be identified and commissioned, monitored and evaluated under this component as part of
the ongoing maintenance of the Conservation Plan. Issues concerning zonation, surrounding
land-use, contractual incorporation and business arrangements will be further negotiated, with
action plans prepared for implementation.
ii) Strategic (Development) Plan:
Based primarily on the above information, a costed and phased strategic development plan will
be produced to guide the Park for the next six years. It will indicate the preferred development
zones (as part of the Zonation Plan), relhabilitation areas, as well as infrastructure (roads, fences,
buildings, visitor facilities) within the Park. ln addition, it will address the redefinition of an
upgraded SANParks management structure for the Park, plus the development of a
re-introduction plan for key game species.
iii) Park Management Plan:
A Park Management Plan (procedures and policies) will be drafted as part of the TEMS to
facilitate more effective and efficient daily management. It will include clear and measurable
deliverables, which will be monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
iv) Monitoring System and Research:
Key baseline information is needed, for example in the biophysical and socioeconomic
environments to monitor the internial and external impact of the development of the Park, and
other management actions on the community, economy and environment. To acquire baseline
information from teirestrial and marinie areas, the biophysical and socioeconomic elements that
need to be monitored will first be identified and approved, then data will be collected based on
sound scientific protocols and best-practice. The project Business Plan for year 1, set out in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), has already identified a number of result indicators whereby
monitoring and evaluation for the social objectives can take place.



6
ISDS
v) Marine Protected Area (MPA):
To facilitate the proclamation of the Addo Marine Protected Area (MPA), a marine planning
framework will be developed through consultationis with all relevant stakeholders. An
implementation plan will then be prepared once all required negotiations have been conducted
and approvals obtained. Legal studies will be undertaken to address potential conflicts between
current terrestrial and marine conservation legislation. A social assessment will be undertaken to
evaluate the impact of the MPA on current users as part of the marine planning framework.
GEF: $0,345 million Co-financing: $0,553 million Total: $0,898 million
COMPONENT 2: IMPLEMENTA TION
Thle implemnentationt of'tl/e developnment plan including ecological mzanagelmzent,
infrastructure and land incorporation, and socioeconomic capacity building.
Implementation will occur in three different management scenarios: I) SANParks land owned
and managed by SANParks, 2) concessioned areas within SANParks land and 3) contractual land
adjoining the Park where SANParks may or may not manage the land. The three
sub-components will roll out of the development plan, inclusive of ecological management,
infrastructure development and land incorporation, to ensure effective implementation of the
development plan.
i) SANParks/Park Environmental Infrastructure Provision:
This sub-component focuses oni the implementation of the development plan. Development
within identified zones will follow a plan, and investments will include all fixed infrastructure
(roads, fences, water provision, conservation center, heritage sites, waste management systems,
alien control, EMP and rehabilitation plans).
ii) Land Incorporation:
Land will be incorporated into the Park depending upon: its relative value with respect to
enhancing ecological integrity and biological representativeness and biodiversity; improving
local socioeconomic conditions and minimizing costs of acquisition (including resettlement); and
the potential to reduce threats to biological integrity. Options for land acquisition include direct
purchasing, contractual arrangements, management agreements, buffer arrangements, and
expropriation. A prioritization matrix for the incorporation option has been developed for
SANParks. The Conservation Plan developed in the preparatory phase helped define the strategic
incorporation zones but will need constant refinement as new information and assessment
techniques are developed (see Componenit 1).
iii) Incentive Contracting Partnerships:
Incentives will be offered to induce land owners to convert high priority areas to away from
marginal agriculture to conservation, according to the relative value of the land for biodiversity
conservation. Incentives coLild include legal recognition, traversing rights, management inputs,
extension services, fencing support, tax exemptions and consumption of game.



7
ISDS
GEF: $2,945 million Co-Financing: $21,420 million Total: 24,365 million
COMPONENT 3: INSTITUTION & GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES
The development of in stitiutioiis anl governanlce structures to ensure the successful
implementationt of tihe Addio pr9ioect antd managenment of thte park.
This component includes the design, implementation and maintenance of management systems
and structures to enhance park management and strengthening/creating institutional structures for
effective, participatory Parlc planning and program implementation.
i) Integrated Environmental Management System (IEMS):
An IEMS based on 1SO14000 will be developed to enhance Park environmental and general
management. Technology and expertise developed in the GEF-financed Cape Peninsula National
Park project will be used in developing the Addo [EMS. The EEMS will include the development
of corporate policies and park specific policies, the strategic development plan, procedures,
monitoring indicators, review and auditilng procedures. Environmental management plans that
are prepared for packages of capital investments in GAENP will contribute to detailing the
EEMS.
ii) GAENP Management Structures:
Based on the developmental plan and the extent to which concessions will be introduced, a new
GAENP management structure will be developed and approved by SANParks for
implementation for the day-to-day management of the expanded Park. The existing Park Steering
Committee (PSC) will be reviewed and restructured in line with SANParks strategy for overall
governance of the GAENP. The PSC's prime fuinction would be to provide high level oversight
function for the park, project and the Project Management Unit (PMU), to ensure compliance
with the project's goals and GEF grant funlding agreement. It is envisaged that as the park
management plan development is initiated, the Addo Planning Forum (APF) will be adapted and
transformed to form a dedicated Park Committee (PC). This activity will follow the procedure
accepted by the SANParks Board in 1999.
iii) Project Management Unit (PMU):
An outsourced PMU consisting of project management, procurement, and administrative
ftinctions will be appointed to execute the project on a daily basis. The unit will work closely
with GAENP staff but under supervision of the PSC, and particularly that of the GAENP
Coordinator. Financial management will be provided through SANParks staff and systems.
iv) Park Business Plan:
A business plan will be prepared, which models the financial requirements of the Park including
income and expenditure, and which provides a basis for adjusting to the roll out of the
Development Plan from the PIP. Initially, a year-one business plan will be drafted with financial
budgets, followed by a full plan, utilizing consultants under PMU and PSC guidance. The full
business plan will take into consideration the deliverables of the PIP inclusive of detailed action



8
ISDS
plans, responsibilities, measurables and financials. The business plan will be reviewed annually
as the project is implemented.
v) Management Information and Reporting System (MIRS):
An electronic hardware and software system will be designed and implemented to manage the
[EMS. The MIRS will be database driven, producing reports in conformance with the
requirements of the governance stiuLctures of the project, plus the management of the GAENP. A
GIS officer will be appointed by SANParks to oversee the necessary databases and generate the
required reports in consultation with the PMU. The design and implementation of the MIRS will
be coordinated by the PMU, utilizing services of suitable providers.
vi) Training Programs:
Training programs will help staff apply the previous new systems and technologies, and build a
clearer understanding of policies and operational procedures contained in the IEMS. A training
needs analysis for new and existing staff will identify required training to implement with the
new requirements posed by monitoring systems, environmental and cultural management,
business and financial management, socio-ecology, communication and public information, and
HIV-AIDS awareness. Training needs will be matched with suitable activity-related courses, and
staff enrolled accordingly. Staff will be monitored on completion of training to ensure
conformance with new systems and usefulniess of training programs. Training for non-SANPark
staff will be addressed in Component 4.
GEF: $1,620 million Co-Financing: $2,097 million Total: $3,717 million
COMPONENT 4: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT & SOCIAL ECOLOGY
The park should benefit comminiunities through enabling nianaged access to natural
resources, access to emilployment, micro enterprise opportunities, training and
en vironmnental education.
This component will support implementation of the Park development plan where it relates to
employment and economic benefits tlhrough communal conservation strategies, Small, Medium
and Micro Enterprise (SMME) opportLnities, envirounmental education and fair resettlement of
displaced communities and individuals. This component will forge the benefits of sustainable
natural resource use with social upliftment, particularly of previously disadvantaged sectors of
society.
i) Access to Natural and Cultural Resources:
Although a preliminary survey was completed during project preparation, the project will finance
further research to better understand the scope and importance of important cultural sites and
resources within the Park boundaries. In addition, a policy guiding managed access to these
resources, in compliance with SANParks policies, will be developed and implemented for the
park. This would also meet the requirements of the Bank's safeguards for cultural resources
(OPN 11.03 and OP 4.1 1).



9
ISDS
ii) Access to employment:
Members of local communities, and in particular displaced people, will be given priority for new
jobs created through the project directly and through expanded ecotourism development. In
addition, these individuals will be offered training opportunities to help them benefit from new
employment opportunities in the Park. As part of this process, a database and suitable policy
framework are needed. The SANParks national policy on Social Ecology will be modified to suit
the GAENP project in relation to meetinig Bank safeguard requirements on involuntary
resettlement. Available employment data/databases will be acquired from local government for
analysis to match with GAENP employment opportunities. The Resettlement Policy Framework
and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) will provide useful baseline information about
individuals affected by farm conversion that can feed into employment programs.Gaps in the
database, such as skills analysis, will be identified and corrected.
iii) Employment and Economic Benefits Based on Communal Conservation Strategies:
Employment opportunities for local people will identified in ecotourism, small works supporting
the roll-out of park infrastructure, and sustainable harvesting. Analyses will be also undertaken to
identify SMME development opportunities within GAENP in areas such as fencing, arts and
crafts, charcoal production, ecotourism, alien clearing, rehabilitation, construction, and
sustainable harvesting. SMMEs will be assisted by gaining access to all available national
SMME incentive schemes. Research will be done to identify what goods and services to
GAENP may be sourced from SMMEs. Training of SMME staff members will be an important
section of this component with a needs analysis having to be undertaken, with training
undertaken in identified gap areas. Such training will be coordinated where possible with that
identified in Component 3. Some employment opportunities will be through Working for Water
and Poverty Relief programs funded by the South African government.
iv) Conservation Education:
An environmental education (EE) program will be designed and implemented. As part of the
program, a sustainable and cost-effective education program and conservation center will be
established to support community and visitor awareness about the Park. A limited number of
tertiary scholarships (possibly two per annium) will be provided to train a cadre of new officials
from the community to enter SANParlcs at a professional level and advance in the organization.
Relevant tertiary education courses will be identified and then a recruitment process will be
pursued to select suitable candidates for evaluation and enrolment. To ensure effective operation
of the Conservation Education Center, a number of Conservation Education Officers will be
recruited.
v) Resettlement Compensation (Resettlement):
Although the project's social objective is to ensure that the greater Addo community largely
benefits from the project, SANParlcs will make funds available and source opportunities in
associated projects (Work for Water, and Poverty Relief and Land Reform Grant) to ensure that
any local people negatively affected by the project are fairly compensated. Site-specific criteria
for compensation, developed during project preparation as part of the Resettlement Policy
Framework and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS) will be implemented in conjunction with



10
ISDS
other- govemment and local government authorities responsible for restitution issues. In addition,
SANPark's recognizes that the Poverty Relief and Working for Water Programs should be
regarded as a transition to longer term more sustainable livelihoods. It will therefore endeavor to
meet requirements in this regard.
GEF: $0,180 million Co-Financing: $3,321 million Total: $3,501 million
COMPONENT 5: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Stiomulatinig overall economiiic developmzent in tlhe region by creating an enabling
environm ent for tourism an td associated econoomic activity.
This component will focus on enhlancing the conditions for broader economic development in the
region, largely through the tourism sector and the National Park. Mainstreaming the project
objectives and achievements will be a priority to sustain the considerable support the project has
received from central government, local communities and donors.
i) Marketing and Product Development:
A marketing plan will be prepared for the Park, inclusive of existing Addo market research
information pltus an MIRS module to record relevant tourism statistics. The marketing plan will
include a communication strategy, new product development, and identify prospective
ecotourism products emanating fromi GAENP. These identified products will be packaged on an
established web site, along with all other relevant information associated with the project (see
www.addoelephantpark.co.za). A communications/marketing officer will be recruited as part of
the new GAENP management structure.
ii) Concessioning and Partnership:
The SANParks concessioning plan will be implemented to attract private sector investment in
ecotourism facilities in the Park. Part of this sub-component includes the development of terms
of reference, identification of contractual partners, and creating a MIRS module to feed into the
wider IEMS-MIRS.
GEF: $0,400 million Co-Financing: $6,729 million Total: $7,129 million
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) is located in the Eastern Province, 70 km from the
city of Port Elizabeth on the eastern seaboard of South Africa. The current National Park
comprises approximately 157,000 ha and expansion by another 79 000 ha of land plus 100 000
ha of marine protected area is proposed. The park is home to over 350 elephants as well as
endangered species such as the black rhino. The area proposed for incorporation into the park
contains 6 out of 7 of South Africa's pant biomes. The proposal will include fynbos as well as



11
ISDS
the Nama Karoo vegetation and thicket biome. The fynbos biome is regarded internationally as
biodiversity hotspot and the thicket biome, like fynbos, is confined to the boundaries of South
Africa. The proposal will make a significant contribution to protecting savanna, grassland, forest
and thicket biomes which are currently under protected in South Africa.
The proposal is to create a Marine Protected Area (MPA) to include important offshore islands
which contain endangered species including the jackass penguin. The proposed marine reserve
will bring over 95 % of the primary production of Algoa Bay area under marine protection and
will provide protection for over 86 % of South Africa's endemic invertebrate marine species. It
will from ecosystem perspective create an important link between the marine and terrestrial
components. It will also be South Africa's largest marine reserve and the 100,000 ha area will
make an important contribution to reachinlg a proposed national target to bring 20% of the
coastline into MPA's.
The project area also contains a wealth of rock art which will be conserved by the proposal.
The Eastern Cape is the poorest Province in South Africa and the economy has been lagging
behind the rest of the country. The Province contains 16% of the population and contributes 7%Y0
to GDP. It has the highest unemployment rate at 48% of population versus national average of
34%.
Tourism numbers to the park have been growing at steady 8% per annum with over half the
tourists being foreigners. The 140 bed facilities run at 67% to 97% occupancy. In 1995 the
75,000 visitors to the Park were estimated to inject $32 million into the national and provincial
economy. The current annual Park budget is approximately $1 million.
In the actual project area the main land use outside of the Addo Elephant National Park is
agriculture. All land is privately owned and pastoralism predominates. Higher value dairy and
chicory farming takes place to the south east and for various reasons is proposed to be excluded
from the proposed park. Preparatory studies have shown that the Province is culTently
experiencing a conversion fri-om low intensity commercial agricultuLre to game ranching and
hunting. Over 400 farms have converted as grazing uses have become less viable and
eco-tourism related uses have increased. A combination of SANParks records, and surveys
indicate very low population in the area with an increase in the size of farms being accompanied
by an exodus of farm workers and managers. It would appear that densities are in the vicinity of
one laborer per 1,300 ha. Wages average no more than $24 per month. Livelihoods earned fiom
farming provide an extremely meager living.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: A limited environmental and social assessment has been undertaken and will be
completed prior to appraisal to meet Bank requirements. The EA is being termed a strategic
environmental assessment as both an environimental assessment and strategic instrument was
needed.



12
ISDS
C. Safegtuard Policies Trig,;ered (firomi PDS)
(click on Q for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, 1P 4.04, GI' 4.04)               )Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  Yes * No
Pest Maniagement (OP 4.09)                                   Yes   No
Cultural Plroperty (OPN 11.03)                            *Yes( )No
Indigenious Peoples (OD 4.20)                             ( ) Yes * No
lnvolumitary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       Yes( ) No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           I Yes *No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( ) Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     )Yes * No
Section 1I - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Sumnmary of KeJy Safeguard Issues. Pleasefill in all r elevant questions. Ifinformationi is not available.
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessasy data.
Il.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
An independent EA was commissioned as part of project preparation in January 2002 to meet
OP/BP/GP 4.01 requirements. The semi-final EA was presented to the general public in May
2002 and final comments were included in the SEA. The TOR's required the consultants to (1)
assess the findings of the separately produced specialist reports on the biological, social,
economic and institutional components of the project in terms of relevant South African
legislation and Bank policy, (2) take cognizance of the South African integrated environmental
management (IEM) procedure which require full public consultation, (3) make recommendations
and costings in term of mitigating impacts. The SEA has been circulated to ASPEN team for
approval.
The interim finding is that the project will have a highly beneficial impact on the marine, aquatic
and terrestrial environment. No adverse environmental issues have been found which require
special mitigation. The SEA specifies an environmental assessment and management framework
that subjects packages of capital investments in the park to South Africa and World Bank EA
requirements prior to approval.
The social component of the project has always been regarded as the most complex component
since the proposal will (1) result in change in land use and livelihoods and therefore trigger
OP/BP.4.12. (2) the public increasingly expect to be consulted on any significant projects. As
part of the EA process two specialist reports have been commissioned. The first undertook a
detailed survey of a selection of farms which might fall within the proposed boundaries of the
park in order to (I) determine the levels of farm occupancy, (2) income levels, (3) means of
income, (4) indication of assets, (5) education levels, (6) employment, (7) family size and



13
ISDS
structure etc. The second study scoped the parameters of a resettlement policy framework (RPF)
based on1 the concept of a large park but with the boundaries not finalized. Finally, RAP's have
been produced for the affected farms. The RPF and RAP's have been approved by ASPEN.
The quantum of potential inhlabitanits impacted by the triggering of OP4. 12/BP 4.12 is expected
to be in the order of 570 to 3300. SANParks records relating to the last series of farms purchased
indicate that the levels of vacancy are extremely low i.e. I worker per 1,300 ha. The approach
being taken to farm incorporation whether by long lease agreement or purchase is that: (1) parlc
boundaries should be and are planned to exclude high value land and areas where there are higher
occupancy levels, (2) unless a farmer wishes to sell his or her property the proffered. SANParks
incorporation option will be via partnership agreements with the landowners, (3) the park option
should enhance socio economic standards in the region and farm workers from incorporated and
adjoining farms will be given preference in employment and SMME opportunities as they arise.
Cultural Property safeguards, OP4. 1 is triggered due to the presence of fossils and important
rock art in the area. Whilst the project is likely to have a beneficial impact by creating a land use
which is highly compatible with the conservationi thereof; the project will be pro-active in this
respect. The SANParks is undertakinig a cultural resources inventoly of the cultural property in
the area. They have produced basic management guidelines for the treatment thereof that have
been included in the SEA.
ll.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No impacts expected to be identified
Il.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Positive long term impacts on the environment and socio economic conditions in the region are
expected.
ll.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The alternative would be to mainitain the status quo. ie declining agricultural and ecosystems management in
the area with gradual reduction in employmenit in the area. Alternative development scenarios will be
considered in preparing the St-ategic (Development) Plan (Component 1) and in plarning subsequent
park infrastructure and use.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
With regard to environmental assessment (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01), the project was rated
environmental Category B. A strategic environmental assessment was carried out, which
included local stakeholder participation. The assessment and record of public consultations was
submitted to the Infoshop before appraisal. All developments in the Park will be subject to
national EA processes and to meet Bank requirements. The process for doing this is spelt out in
Alnexure 4 to the SEA.
With regard to cultural property (OP 4.11), the project meets Bank requirements through a
number of measures. These include adherence to the National Heritage Resources Act (1999),



14
ISDS
development by SANParks of a strategic framework for the conservation of cultural resources,
and a cultural resource managemeiit policy. A preliminary inventory and mapping of cultural
sites is being completed as part of project preparation. This will form the basis for further
assessment and guide the development of suitable measures for cultural site management,
compatible with Bank policy. Field staff will receive basic training in cultural resource
management and a specialist staff member will be appointed to manage the data base and oversee
policy compliance.
With regard to involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Due to the fact that some farm workers
will fall within the scope of the resettlement definition, a Resettlement Policy Framework has
been completed and RAPs have been produced prior to appraisal for fanms anticipated to be
incorporated into the GAENP in years one and two. The community development component of
the project and a SANParks budgetaiy provision including Poverty Relief Programs, will set
aside sufficient financial resources to cover the resettlement requirements for the lifespan of this
project. Employment creation thlrough the project and with private sector tourism development is
expected to absorb most displaced workers who wish to remain in the area and continue working.
Salaries paid by these alternative employment options are significantly higher than in pastoral
agriculture. The Bank is responsible for assessing and, either rejecting (and suggesting
modifications) or approving the RAPs. histitutional and monitoring arrangements for
implementation are documented in the RPF
II.D.4. Identify the key stalceholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with ain emiplhasis oin potentially affected people.
Stakeholders will be able to participate at different levels. There is the Addo Planning Forum, to
be transformed into a Park Committee which will form the main body for consultation on overall
implementation. A resettlement working group (RWG) is being formed to oversee
implementation of the RAP's.
The SEA has been planned with and disclosed to over 234 interested and affected parties. This
process was largely completed in May 2002 with copies of the report provided to all parties. The
public process was advertised, meetings held and disclosed in the press and on the GAENP
web-site. The SEA identifies that sub-projects will require South African and Bank EA approval.
The main affected stakeholders in terms of EA requirements will be land owners and occupants.
South African EA requirements have been identified as meeting Bank requirements regarding
public consultation and disclosure. ln order to meet South African EA requirements, a public
participation plan has to be prepared and approved by the Provincial EA authority. The public
process must actively involve all interested and affected parties including the poor and provide
them with adequate input into the EA process as well as the opportunity to provide coniments on1
the draft EA report before submission. Draft reports are also made available in public places for
comment.
It is not foreseen that the Banlc will need to approve any further studies to comply with OP 4.1 1
as South African requirements are sufficiently clear and the project will have a beneficial impact
on cultural resource management. It is anticipated that the entry point for ensuring compliance to
Bank requirements and South Africain cultural heritage legislation will be through the EA process



15
ISDS
In temis of resettlement, the main affected parties are farm workers on farms and to lesser extent
land owners who would be fully compensated through loss of property and livelihoods through
sale of property. Due to the relatively small numbers of inhabitants falling within the ambit of
resettlement, lost communities will not be significantly affected. Detailed consultations have
been held with affected communities to develop the RPF and the RAP's. Hard copies of the near
final documents ( very minor editorial changes subsequently made) have also been workshopped
and provided to the affected parties (July 7tlh to July 18th). This method will continue to be
practiced with formal institutional arrrangements being put in place for the resettlement process.
This will include the proposed Resettlement Working Group on which inter alia affected parties
will be represented. Future RAP's, including the independent monitoring thereof will also be
provided to the proposed Park Committee which will include community representatives.
Once agreement has been reached on each fLiture RAP by the interested and affected parties,
SANParks will forward the RAP's to the Bank for approval.
E. Safeguards Classification (veleci in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative imipacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are trigger-ed, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institLtionially manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intenrediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessm7ent/Alnalysts/Managenment Plan:       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 7/31/2002     7/17/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            8/7/2002       2/28/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              8/7/2002      7/21/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Fraulneiwork:                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 7/31/2002     7/17/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             8/7/2002      7/7/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              8/7/2002      7/21/2003
Indigenous Peoples Developmient Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Banlc                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Managenment Plan.                                      Expected       Actual



16
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Saqeiy Mcmnagentetit Plan.                              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Sif!ned and submitted bv      Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Christopher James Warner                    07/18/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Dan R. Aronson                         07/18/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Johln Boyle                            07/18/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved bv:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                         07/18/2003
Sector Manager/Director       Richard Scobey                              07/18/2003



