j\Aj         u  &;
~  ,~o  ~   o  r~n  ~w  n  af  n
OurAn Tncan Nalonaim ariKs
Reseftlement Polcy Framework and associated
Resettlement Action Plans I*;*r year I of HmpDementatlon er
rh':A Greatew Addo Elephant Nationa Park Project
i un   'N,IX,ti, 2O  .3
CompfDed by JOO GoFdon og SAMParks
o"';~~~~~~ nn "-~          rn- an- ";n 
I  r   I I
1"-_~~~~~~  I
,~ ~   ~   ~  h   [FWw s rLi ,
'~~~~~~~ _                  LU.,..._  L  ,l  ..



Copies of this report are available from:
1. South African National Parks
PO Box 20419
Humewood
Port Elizabeth
6013
2.   Tel +27 41 508 5411
Fax +27 41 508 5415
3.   Addo web site www.addoelephantpark.com
. 



CONTENTS
i.    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .              ................................................ 1
PART 1:    RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK (RPF) ...................3
1.     Background to the Addo project area.                              4
2.     Overview of the potentially affected population      .4
3. Addo opportunities.                                                    7
4.     SANParks conservation mandate                  .8
5.     South African legal requirements impacting resettlement/ land tenure .   10
6.     Addo land acquisition framework .13
7.    Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) .16
8.    Implementation Arrangements .24
PART 2: RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLANS (RAP's) PLUS INCOME.... 31
RESTORATION STRATEGIES
1. Purpose .32
2. Methodology .32
3. Main findings .33
4.    Income restoration stategies .34
5. Monitoring Process .40
6. Conclusion.                                                           41
APPENDIXES .........                                                    42
1.    Appendix 1: Letter of comment on resettlement process by Department
of Land Affairs .43
2.     Appendix 2: Pro-forma resettlement plans .45
3.     Appendix 3: Survey questionnaire .47
4.     Appendix 4: List of groups consulted .55



i. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Background to the project
The South African National Parks (SANParks) has applied to the GEF/World Bank
for a grant of US $5,5 million to establish a megabiodiversity conservation area in and
around the existing Addo Elephant National Park, located in the Eastern Cape of
South Africa. The Park lies within an area of global biodiversity value and contains
five out of seven plant biomes found within South Africa. The proposed adjoining
marine environment is also of considerable biodiversity value. Other than along the
coastal area, the area is characterised by relatively low and declining agricultural
productivity with a very low population density. A significant land use trend in the
Province is towards game farming and eco-tourism with over 400 farms having
already converted. During project preparation, detailed specialist studies, including a
strategic environmental assessment, were undertaken indicating the desirability and
viability of creating an expanded conservation area. The project will support the
expansion of the Addo Park from an existing 150 000 ha to 240 000 ha plus
100 000 ha of marine protected area. The project will significantly boost eco-tourism
from the existing 120 000 tourists per annum. By project closure the Park is predicted
to be financially self- sufficient.
Since 1997, the expansion of the Park has been proceeding with land purchase by
SANParks. This will continue for at least the next 1-3 years. This has primarily taken
place on a willing buyer and willing seller basis. The next phase of expansion will
primarily involve land owners being incentivised to contract land into the Park. Some
of this has already taken place.
Resettlement context
Since 1997, SANPark's has been purchasing land with a clause requiring land to be
purchased free of occupation. A survey is currently underway to identify workers and
families who have been displaced from these farms in order for compensation to be
provided by SANParks. Due to low population densities, few displaced workers are
expected to be found. A further survey is currently being undertaken to identify all
individuals who could be affected by the proposed expansion of Addo over the next 6
years. Current estimates of potentially affected individuals vary from a low of 570
inhabitants (191 workers) to a higher figure of approximately 3300 inhabitants. The
variability in the figures is ascribed to the underlying assumptions which are made
including: the area of land to be included into Addo, the ratio of farm workers per ha
of land and the number of dependants. Further, the actual number of workers and
inhabitants which might require resettlement support will also depend on the extent to
which workers and inhabitants displaced since 1997 can be found. Based on current
phasing for the expansion of the Park, it is anticipated that SANParks resettlement
obligations in this regard will end in approximately 2010.
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAP's)
SANParks has developed a RPF to comply with Bank Operational Policy 4.12 and a
series of RAP's for years I and 2 of implementation. The RPF includes a broad
identification of the affected community, South African legal requirements,
1



development of guiding principles for compensation, generic income restoration
plans and implementation and monitoring arrangements.
During years 1 and 2 (Phase 1), 6 farms with a total of 69 inhabitants will be affected.
RAP's have been developed for these farms. During the first 3 years of the project, a
total of 13 farms and an estimated 544 inhabitants may be affected including the
above.
Detailed planning for the marine component of the project will only begin in year 1 to
2 of the project. Therefore, it is premature to produce RAP's or to develop detailed
RPF proposals. The RPF is likely to need some updating in future as the marine
component of the project is developed.
Disclosure
The RAP's and the RPF have been developed with those directly affected. They have
been disclosed to affected parties directly through meetings due to low levels of
literacy and long travelling distances in the project area. The document has also been
made available at public libraries and the Bank.
Implementation/institutional arrangements
Implementation of the RAP's will be as follows. The lead responsibility for
implementation will rest with SANParks who will provide the necessary staff and
budget for implementation including the use of an agent if need be. At community
level, local level fora will be convened for purposes of communication and liason.
The local level fora will nominate representatives to sit on the proposed Resettlement
Working Group. The Resettlement Working Group will primarily provide an
oversight function including serving as a vehicle to raise issues and concerns and
monitor the implementation of the RAP's. The Resettlement Working Group will
meet every 3- 4 months and will be broadly convened to include government, key
agencies, NGO's and community representatives. The Resettlement Working Group
will report to the Addo Steering Committee. SANParks will also appoint an
independent team to bi-annually monitor the implementation of the RAP's. The
reports of the independent monitor will be provided to the Addo Park Manager, the
Addo Steering Committee, the Resettlement Working Group and the Bank.
Bank monitoring and supervision
The Bank will be provided with copies of all RAP's for approval. Supervision
missions will, on a 6 monthly basis, pay special attention to the planning and
implementation of the RAP's. Emphasis will be placed on ensuring that corrective
actions are taken where needed.
2



PART 1:
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK (RPF)
3



1. BACKGROUND TO THE ADDO PROJECT AREA
The proposed Greater Addo Elephant National Park (gAENP) comprises an area of
the Eastern Cape that contains an extremely high biodiversity, yet is poorly
conserved. The area that has been identified as potentially forming an expanded
conservation area would form a continuous, terrestrial conservation area of almost
200 km in length, about 30 km at its widest part and about 10 km at its narrowest.
This is known as the planning domain. Within the planning domain, the exact
boundaries of the proposed park remain uncertain although a priority area of 240 000
ha has been identified to potentially comprise the full extent of the Park. The existing
Park would form the nucleus of the gAENP and priority areas would be consolidated
to streamline management of the Park and to acquire areas deemed to be of critical
conservation importance. In addition, an adjacent marine protected area (MPA) of
about 120 000 ha is also being proposed. (For details see specialist reports as part of
the gAENP conservation planning exercise at www.addoelephantpark.com).
Expansion of the gAENP would involve the incorporation of largely private farms
through either direct purchase or via contractual arrangements. Since 1997, roughly
75 000 ha has been incorporated into the Park, with 51 000 ha of that through direct
purchase. Expansion plans during the next 3 years include the consolidation of a
further 29 000 ha (or 13 properties) of priority properties as part of Phase 1. This will
increase the Park to about 154 000 ha. Although inclusion via contractual means
would be pursued in some areas during the first phase, Phase 2 would predominantly
focus on the contractual incorporation route, not discounting the periodic
opportunistic purchase if price and availability of funds prevail.
Although most farms would be acquired through a process of willing-buyer willing-
seller, concern has been expressed as to the impacts, particularly resettlement impacts,
of the expansion. In particular, concern has been expressed that farm workers would
be likely to lose access to employment and places of accommodation typically
provided on the farms. Farm workers are regarded as among the most vulnerable
members of South Africa's working class, largely as a result of the ongoing decline in
the agricultural sector, as well as a result of historical conditions that have ensured
that farm workers are usually poorly skilled and not well equipped to sell their labour
in the wider economic market.
2. OVERVIEW OF THE POTENTIALLY AFFECTED POPULATION
2.1 Farm workers and their families
A detailed data base is currently being compiled for all inhabitants potentially falling
within the ambit of the RPF. During phase 1, for 13 farms, it is estimated that 165
workers and an additional 544 dependants will fall within the ambit of the RPF. On
the 6 priority farms there are currently 69 inhabitants of which 10 permanent workers
and 6 dependants will become SANParks responsibility, there being no alternative
livelihood options for them.
From the information provided by farmers and farm workers, there are a total of 35
farm workers + 34 dependants on the 6 priority farms that were surveyed. There is an
4



average of 3.3 people, and 1.7 workers, per household. From these interviews, the
following population profile has been assembled.
Table 1: Selected Farm Worker Characteristics
Characteristic  Description
Age             Most workers are 18 to 49 years (84%). Only 9% are over 60
years, so only very few will be able to fall back on old age
pensions.
Gender          73% of the workers are male.
Education       Workers are poorly educated. 24% have no education at all;
37% have to Std. 2 (the minimum literacy threshold); 25% have
Std 3 to 5; only 13% have any secondary education, with only
one having matric. Most are either Xhosa and/or Afrikaans,
with only a few (18%) speaking English.
Work Experience Lack of formal education and of English means that most
workers have only worked or lived on farms or local small
towns, with 63% having worked only on farms. Only a few
(19%) have lived and/or worked in larger urban settings such as
Uitenhage or Port Elizabeth.
Wages           Median income is R588 per month and average is R698 per
worker per month.
Lack of off farm experience means that most of these farm workers have only limited
contacts and networks in urban areas. Evidence from resettlement on farms elsewhere
in South Africa, such as in the former homeland of Qwaqwa, shows that ex-farm
workers without such networks have serious difficulty in finding jobs in a high
unemployment economy such as that of South Africa. SANParks is committed to
ensuring that this does not happen in this instance and as such will ensure that the
income restoration strategies as set out in this document are effectively implemented.
Farm workers in the proposed gAENP area currently receive a significant portion of
their income in the form of performance bonuses as well as rations and payments in
kind, including meat, staple foods, water, limited access to electricity, firewood,
housing, clothing, limited transport, loans, UIF, and the right to keep livestock on the
farm. This enables people to live on relatively low wages (a median household cash
income of R588 per month with an average of R698), but also serves to inculcate
dependence upon the farmer. These benefits are of considerable value to the workers
and are regarded as part of their income stream. Furthermore, these benefits generally
do not terminate with retirement. As such the elderly have a safety net provided by the
farmer. Once displaced from the farn, such benefits would fall away. In order to
ensure that this does not happen, SANParks will ensure that incomes are replaced via
the income restoration strategy outlined in this document.
These workers and their families for the most part thus come from a very small and
circumscribed socio-economic universe. They overwhelmingly express the wish to
remain within their immediate locality, with 45% wanting to live on farms, 44% in
5



local towns such as Addo, Kirkwood or Paterson, and 11% in larger towns or urban
complexes, notably Port Elizabeth.
SANParks will take these limitations very seriously in its plans to provide
employment and livelihoods for displaced inhabitants.
2.2 Seasonal workers
No detailed socio-economic picture of seasonal workers exists, as they were only
found during the survey on one of the farms. They were shearing sheep and or picking
fruit. The 6 farms surveyed employed 4 seasonal labourers from neighbouring areas,
including, local townships. Piecework is without the kinds of benefits that permanent
workers receive, and is without any kind of employment security. Whilst it is not
intended to develop RAP's for seasonal workers, SANParks will endeavour to find
placements under the poverty relief funding program, should any positions become
available.
2.3 Already displaced workers
During the last 5 years, (1997 to 2001) SANParks has bought some 36 farms for
incorporation into the gAENP (28 000 ha). While some of these farms were
effectively unoccupied at the time SANParks took ownership of them, it needs to be
established whether the depopulation of these farms reflects wider economic trends
and/or whether it reflects the fact that the farms were being purchased by SANParks
in terms of a "free of third party" requirement. The only way to resolve this issue is to
contact all the owners of these farms at the time of transfer as well as the displaced
inhabitants. The project will attempt to locate and provide compensation to workers
and their families displaced through the Addo land expansion process, post 1997. The
process will entail advertising, following up on leads, public meetings, the design of a
data base, assessment of resettlement needs followed by development and
implementation of RAP's.
2.4 Host communities
While ex-farm workers will have moved to a range of destinations, depending on
where they have family ties, or have been able to find employment and
accommodation, investigations suggest that they have mainly moved into the local
townships. This could, in future, result in increased pressure on accommodation and
service provision. However, in this case, all townships within the planning area of
the gAENP, and from where most workers originate, can provide access to medical
care (clinics), schools and other related services, such as sanitation and electricity.
SANParks has received full endorsement from all these municipalities for the project
as well as a pledge for full cooperation in terms of providing housing grants for these
workers. It is therefore not anticipated that host communities in towns will suffer any
burden through workers or families who select to move to surrounding towns.
Therefore, no form of compensation is envisaged for host communities in towns.
More importantly SANParks will need to monitor and ensure that in instances where
farmers take workers with them to new farms that this does not result in existing
workers being moved off the land to make way for those moving onto the farms.
2.5 Farmers and their families
Farmers and their families falling into the middle to upper income group, are clearly
much better off than workers on their farms in terms of education, disposable capital
6



and alternative livelihood options. Further, SANParks pays above average prices for
farms. For these reasons, landowners/farmers whose farms are purchased or
expropriated are therefore not expected to fall under the ambit of the RAP's.
2.6 Indirectly affected population
A number of people in the local towns such as Addo, Jansenville, Kirkwood and
Patterson are dependent upon the agricultural economy. These include people that
service life and work on the farms, such as business people, agricultural service
providers, teachers and state officials, etc. They are not expected to be negatively
affected by the switch from an agrarian to a conservation economy in this portion of
the Province. Therefore, no compensation is envisaged.
3. ADDO OPPORTUNITIES
In the current South African socio-political context, the raison d 'etre for the coming
into being of the gAENP is driven as much by a conservation ethos as by a desire to
expand economic opportunities and, in particular, to open these opportunities up for
those that have been historically disadvantaged. For the most part, economic
opportunities should accrue within the context of eco-tourism or nature based
activities. In this regard the Strategic Environmental Assessment Specialist Study No
11: Eco-tourism Opportunities (see www.addoelephantpark.co.za) deals with the
broad diversity of tourism related opportunities in the terrestrial and marine
environments.
The challenge will be to ensure that the opportunities that arise, and the employment
that these opportunities create, are accessible to marginal groupings and, in particular,
those losing farm based employment. The above-mentioned specialist report (No. 11)
estimates that between 40 and 42 eco-tourism jobs will be created per 15 000 ha
developed (about 1 person for every 350 ha). The estimate is that of these, 25% could
be of an unskilled nature, 50% could be semi-skilled and the remaining 25% could be
skilled and managerial posts (pers comm with R. Davies author of the report).
The number of jobs calculated to result from a consolidated 154 000 ha park (i.e. the
inclusion of 13 additional farms within 3 years) are as follows:
*  98 permanent jobs (increase of 28) in conservation (25 for unskilled 49 semi-
skilled and 24 skilled workers.)
*  260 permanent jobs (increase of 170) in eco-tourism (66 for unskilled 129
semi-skilled and 65 skilled workers).
* 24 permanent (increase of 15) technical and administrative jobs (these would
be skilled jobs).
* 71 contract jobs in fencing maintenance (the bulk of these would be
unskilled). This equates to about one permanent or fencing contractual job per
337 ha.
* 421 temporary poverty relief jobs for a 4 year period (the bulk of these would
be unskilled).
7



A total of 453 permanent jobs and 421 temporary jobs are predicted to be created or
an increase of 214 permanent jobs against the current employment of the Park. During
this period, approximately 165 agricultural jobs are calculated to be shed from the 13
farms through incorporation into Addo. This figure excludes seasonal employment.
Some of these job losses will be replaced on new farms to be purchased by farmers.
The remainder will be catered for through the RAP's/income restoration plans.
Therefore, the net job gain is calculated to be 49 permanent jobs plus approximately
421 temporary jobs through the Poverty Relief/Working for Water Program (seasonal
employment figures are unknown). A significant but more difficult impact to measure
is the net benefit to the overall economy of the conversion from a low intensity
agricultural economy to a nature based economy. Specialist reports indicate a
significant gain.
4. SANPARKS CONSERVATION MANDATE
SANParks, as the country's premier conservation organisation, has been mandated by
the national government to contribute to the expansion of South Africa's biodiversity
conservation areas from the present 6% to 8% of the country's surface area by 2010,
excluding marine areas. Inclusive of the need to expand the protected areas, there has
been a shift from a preservationist philosophy to an ecosystem conservation approach
in an attempt to encapsulate ecological patterns and processes. However, the general
lack of understanding and appreciation by the general public and government of the
essential role of ecosystems as the back-bone of our very existence has often led to
conflicts around the setting aside of land for conservation, as opposed to altemative
land-uses. National parks, as megabiodiversity repositories, primarily serve
conservation purposes, but also have an enormous potential for economic
development, so much so that when fully developed they should be viewed as an asset
and not a liability to South African society. The booming eco-tourism industry in
Kruger, Cape Peninsula, Tsitsikama, Kgalgadi Transfrontier and Addo Elephant
National Parks reflects this.
In meeting both conservation and socio-economic obligations, SANParks is
attempting to address the issue of conserving a healthy environment, thus combining
the objectives of restitution with conservation and the sustainable use of biodiversity.
This is in accordance with the National Constitution, National Environmental
Management Act (NEMA), the governments macro-economic GEAR initiative and
social justice initiatives as advocated through the Land Restitution, and
Reconstruction and Development Programme.
The general requirement of setting aside large conservation areas is primarily
designed to meet the essential ecological patterns and processes associated with
preserving sustainable functioning examples of the country's different biomes, for
which Africa is so renown. Large size also enhances the aesthetic appeal of an area,
especially their recreational and spiritual values. Furthermore, expansion of national
parks remains necessary in the face of the consequence of climate change and the
habitat needs of threatened and endangered species.
Thus, for national parks to meet their essential requirement of conserving
biodiversity, whilst also meeting human needs, they must:
8



*  Be large enough to support representative examples of one or more natural
ecosystems.
* Contribute to biodiversity and ecological processes and preserve special
cultural features.
*  Provide spiritual, scientific, educational and recreational opportunities.
*  Incorporate the needs and aspirations of local, national and intemational
communities.
*  Reduce occupation and exploitation that are largely in direct threat to its main
purpose.
Furthermore, if parks are to continue to grow to meet their objectives in an ever-
increasingly cluttered and competitive world, political forces need be nurtured and
funding sourced. In this regard, the national govemment has played a pivotal role of
late towards land purchases, consolidating 40% of the 20 000 ha in the Addo Elephant
National Park alone in 2001-2 but also in other parks such as Vembe-Dongola
National Park. Private investors have also facilitated the expansion of a suite of
national parks. However, alternative forms of incorporation into national parks
through contractual arrangements with private land-owners and community land are
also being actively pursued by SANParks, thus furthering state-private/community
partnerships - a central theme in the up-coming World Parks Congress in 2003. In
this regard the incentives basis for incorporating private or communal land need to be
further developed to enhance conservation on a wider front.
In meeting this conservation mandate SANParks:
*  Has added over 130 000 ha to nine national parks in six of the country's seven
biomes in 2001-2 alone, thereby addressing some of the conservation priorities
of SANParks and the National Department of Environmental Affairs and
Tourism (DEAT).
*  Is in the process of proclaiming a marine protected area around the Cape
Peninsula National Park.
*  Accepts that setting aide large areas for conservation is a justifiable land use.
*  Accepts that occupation of such ground by people, other than in controlled
circumstances such as park staff villages/developments, is largely in direct
conflict with SANParks conservation ethos and in certain parks unacceptable
given its broad spectrum of indigenous and in some cases dangerous fauna.
*  Recognises the challenge of making conservation appropriate to the people
and circumstances of South Africa and, by experimenting boldly, innovatively
and sensibly, hopes to contribute leadership to the international challenge of
making conservation appropriate to poor, previously disadvantaged peoples.
Examples include the San - Mier community venture with SANParks in the
Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park and the Makuleke community park in Kruger
National Park.
*  Recognises the fact that its system of national parks contribute economically
at both the national and Provincial/Regional scales. In this regard SANParks
has been successful in accessing R280m from Poverty Relief and Work for
Water project funds from national govemment for 2002-2004, and creating
over one million man-days of work in the unemployed sector throughout the
country.
9



*  Recognises that in meeting its conservation mandate that people, and
particularly poorly educated farm labour force and fishing communities, may
be initially negatively affected through park expansion programmes.
Therefore, in the case of Addo, SANParks will, where possible, avoid the need
for resettlement and where required ensure that RAP's are developed and fully
implemented in order to compensate inhabitants.
*  Is also aware that the burgeoning conservation industry potentially offers
greater socio-economic opportunities for the above disadvantaged groups than
current land uses.
*  Recognising that there is often a time lag between proclamation, consolidation
and development of a park and an overall increase in employment, will in the
case of Addo, ensure implementation of RAP's.
*  Shall use this framework to enhance the opportunities available to those
groups most affected by park expansion programmes and, ultimately, to
improve the ecological, economic and social sustainability of conservation and
protected areas.
*  Also recognises that resettlement cannot occur in isolation but, rather, through
a joint effort by various responsible government departments tasked with
social issues such as the Departments of Land Affairs, Housing, Local
Government, Environment & Tourism.
*  Acknowledges that it normally takes vacant occupation of purchased land
given the conservation ethos and product that SANParks is identified with
which includes dangerous game, and the fact that the parks are not developed
for the exclusive right of a specific group but for the general public of South
Africa.
* Acknowledges the domestic legal obligations and responsibilities associated
with park expansion as well as the requirements of funders and donors where
applicable.
5. SOUTH AFRICAN LEGAL REQUIREMENTS IMPACTING
RESETTLEMENT/ LAND TENURE
As part of South Africa's democratisation process since the early 1990's, the country
has developed possibly the most progressive National Constitution and supporting
social legislation. A great deal of emphasis has been placed upon legally supporting
the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of South African society. In this regard, the
following legislation applies. Table 2 applies to resettlement and land-right issues
which are addressed in the SANParks RPF.
Table 2. Legislation affecting the land/sea incorporation programme.
Legislation               Legal       Description
Issues
(Land/Sea/
Labour)
National Parks Act 57 of Land         This Act makes provision for the
1976                                  establishment and extension of parks
and for the exclusion of certain land
10



from the park.
National Environment and Land         Environmental  management   must
Management Act 107 of                 place people and their needs at the
1998 (NEMA)                           forefront of its concern, and serve
their   physical,   psychological,
developmental, cultural and social
interest  equitably.  Actions  and
activities undertaken in carrying out
expansion plans should thus be
socially,  environmentally   and
economically sustainable.
Expropriation  Act 63  of Land        Where    SANParks    wishes   to
1975                                 incorporate  (purchase)  privately
owned land, the act makes provision
for this, where the owner has agreed.
In the event of no agreement, the act
makes provision for expropriation by
the Minister of Public Works or by the
Board.
Extension  of Security  of Land   &   The Act provides for measures with
Tenure Act 62 of 1997 Labour          state assistance to facilitate long-term
(ESTA)                                security of land tenure; regulates the
conditions of residence on certain
land; and the conditions on, and
circumstances in, which the right of
persons residing on land may be
terminated and under what conditions
and in what circumstances they may
be evicted.
The Constitution 108 of 1996 Labour   " No one may be deprived of property
except in terms of law of general
application, and no law may permit
arbitrary deprivation of property."
Labour Tenants Act 30 of Labour       This Act provides for the protection of
1996                                 the security of tenure of labour tenants
and those persons occupying or using
land as a result of their association
with labour tenants. It also provides
for the acquisition of land and rights in
land by labour tenants.
Restitution of Land Rights Labour     This Act provides for the restitution of
Act 22 of 1994                       rights in land in respect of which
persons  or   communities   were
dispossessed  under,  or  for  the
purposes of furthering the object of



racially   based    discriminatory
legislation.
Prevention   of    Illegal Labour      This Act provides for the prohibition
Eviction From and Unlawful             on unlawful evictions and lays down
Occupation of Land Act 19              procedures for eviction of unlawful
of 1998                                occupiers.
Marine Living Resources Act Sea        The marine protected areas of the
18 of 1998                             MLRA are essentially a carry-over of
the marine reserves of the Sea Fishery
Act. Protection is now granted to these
areas in terms of section 43 of the
MLRA which provides that the
Minister may, by notice published in
the Gazette, declare an area to be a
marine  protected  area  for  the
protection of fauna and flora or a
particular species of fauna or flora and
the physical features on which they
depend;   to    facilitate  fishery
management by protecting spawning
stock,  allowing  stock' recovery,
enhancing   stock  abundance   in
adjacent areas, and providing pristine
communities for research; or to
diminish any conflict that may arise
from competing uses in that area.
Sea Shore Act 21 of 1935  Land/Sea     This Act declares the State President
to be the owner of the seashore and
the sea within the territorial waters of
the Republic and the alienation of
these areas are prohibited. The Sea-
shore Act is administered by DEAT.
Although the alienation of the area is
prohibited, the Act does make
provision for the 'Premier' to lease the
area for a number of uses, provided
that such letting is in the interest of the
general public .The 'Premier' is also
required to issue permits for the
removal of any material from the sea
and seashore, except precious stones,
natural oil, precious metals or any
base metals, or any aquatic plant, shell
or salt.
12



The Sea Birds and Seals Land/Sea      The enumerated objectives of the Act
Protection Act 46 of 1973             are to provide for control over certain
islands and rocks, the capture and
killing of sea birds and seals and for
the disposal of the products of sea
birds and seals.
6. ADDO LAND ACQUISITION FRAMEWORK
The proposed land acquisition framework seeks to:
*  Establish the principles and criteria to inform land incorporation into the
gAENP.
*  Prioritise areas based upon national conservation priorities.
*  Prioritise areas for incorporation according to their contribution to the goals
and objectives of this specific park.
*  Provide a fair and equitable framework by which to include areas.
*  Show flexibility with regard to different means of incorporation.
*  Establish legally binding institutions whereby contractual landowners can
collectively contract with SANParks.
6.1 Principles
Further expansion of the gAENP or proclamation and inclusion of newly identified
areas remains justified on ecological and economic grounds provided that the
following five basic principles are met:
* Maintenance of ecological integrity: It is critically important that the
biological viability of this park (and its species) is enhanced through the
consolidation of missing components of existing ecosystems or the inclusion
of unconserved ecosystems within a conservation area that adds general
strength to the system in question.
* Respresentativeness: Inclusion  of unique (or endemic) elements of
biodiversity associated with biomes or hotspots becomes a priority for
acquisition.
* Enhancing biological diversity: Inclusion of unique biodiversity assets adds
general conservation value to the park.
* Enhancing economic viability: Inclusion of specific pieces of land to either
reduce management costs or enhance the economic potential of the park;
essential for sustainability, job creation, political support and poverty
alleviation. Economic factors alone might justify an acquisition.
* Minimising threats: Specific acquisitions could reduce threats to the biological
integrity of the park from land transformation (through habitat loss, increased
erosion of biodiversity, introduction of alien species, and general loss of
ecological services), and economic and social threats from inappropriate
developments on park boundaries.
13



Thus, the importance placed upon any particular tract of land or expanse of sea for
incorporation into the gAENP depends on its contribution to the goals and objectives
of the park and the threat of these not being achieved in the long-term because of
irreversible actions or activities. This therefore requires the weighing up of a suite of
criteria:
*  conservation value (primarily its biodiversity contribution) is of central
importance;
*  location;
*  size;
*  cultural value;
*  economic contribution;
*  financials associated with costs; and
* aesthetic value and social constraints; and resettlement requirements/impact.
6.2 Land incorporation options
The most difficult component of this strategy of incorporating private/communal
lands remains determining the areas importance and how much it is worth 'paying
for' through either direct purchase, incentives (via contractual/management
arrangements) to private land-owners, or expropriation. These different incorporation
options would be exercised under the following conditions:
* Purchasing will be entertained when the property is considered to be of
biological importance within the identified core area of the park, adjoining or
surrounded by current SANParks property, of cultural or aesthetic value,
managerial importance (straightening boundaries etc), at a reasonable price.
*  Contractual arrangements would be entertained when the property is situated
on the periphery of the gAENP area, preferably outside the core conservation
area, of biological merit on its own account, of such a size that it would be
able to support a sustainable conservation-based enterprise, or is part of a
larger cluster of smaller properties making up an economic unit. These areas
would be proclaimed as Schedule lb (2b) park and protected by the National
Parks Act.
* Management agreement would apply to areas on the periphery of the park, of
limited biological value but with managerial importance and importantly can
be fenced into the park. These areas would not be proclaimed as contractual
National Park land, thus not protected by the National Parks Act.
* Buffer arrangements as a type of weaker agreement would be encouraged with
surrounding land-owners largely outside the desired park boundary but
whereby park integrity would be enhanced if their land use conforms with that
of the park.
* Expropriation will only be considered when the purchase route can not be
exercised on a willing-buyer willing-seller basis for key properties identified
for purchase, and all other avenues had been exhausted.
The extent to which SANParks implements any of the above alternatives will depend
upon the resources which they have at their disposal when considering the options as
illustrated in the following matrix (Table 3):
14



Table 3: Prioritised incorporation matrix with importance scale in bold italics
and preference indicated as A,B,C,D and incentives offered to private land-
owners.
High value and high threat areas    High value and low threat areas
1. Private land                     1. Private land
Inside park (undertaken to brinz them  Inside park
into the park)
A. Purchase, very high              A. Purchase, high
B. Expropriate, very high           B. Contract incentive, high
C. Contract incentive, moderate     C. Management agreement, low
D. Management agreement, no         D. Expropriate, low
Outside Park                        Outside Park
Extension Services, very high       Extension services, high
Incentives offered to private land-owners  Incentive offered to private land owners
Legal recognition, traversing rights,  Legal recognition, management input,
management input, tax exemption,    tax exemption.
fencing support, consumption of game,  Reduced traversing rights, fencing
extension service.                  support, consumption of game, extension
service.
2. Government land/sea              2. Government land/sea
Negotiation priority - very high    Negotiation priority - high
Low value and high threat           Low value and low threat
1. Private land                     1. Private land
Inside park                         Inside park
A. Management agreement high        A. Management agreement, moderate
B. Contract incentive, low          B. Contract incentives, low
C. Purchase, low                    C. Purchase, low
D. Expropriate, no                  D. Expropriate, no
Outside park                        Outside Park
Extension service, moderate         Extension service, low
Incentives offered to private land-owners  Incentives offered to private land-owners
No legal recognition, no tax exemption.  None offered.
Reduced or no management input,
fencing support, consumption of game,
extension service.
2. Government land/sea              2. Government land/sea
Negotiation priority - high         Negotiation priority - moderate
15



The incorporation of government land (either terrestrial or marine) for conservation
purposes would also be governed by the conservation value and risk matrix above.
6.3 Incentives for private/communal land incorporation
Incentives to encourage private/communal land-owners incorporation into the gAENP
will be pursued. Possible incentives will include provision of extension services,
fencing, traversing rights, use of wildlife, management costs, tax exemption, and
access to funding to name but some. The package of incentives would vary depending
upon the perceived conservation value and threat (Table 2). They must be assessed to
give greater biological value to the park and towards the State's attainment of its
biodiversity goals.
7. RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK (RPF) FOR THE GAENP
7.1 Guiding principles
SANParks will implement the following guiding principles for the resettlement
process in keeping with World Bank safeguard policies, international best practice
domestic legislation and SANParks corporate ethos.
Principle 1: Avoid and or minimise resettlement
SANParks will demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the members of the proposed
Resettlement Working Group (see below), the merits of the proposed purchase and
incorporation of farms concerned. The long term conservation and strategic planning
objectives for the gAENP are clearly stated and available through the Strategic
Environmental assessment on www.addoelephantpark.co.za. This, at the minimum,
states the ecological goals (core business) of the gAENP in clearly quantifiable and
measurable terms. These principles and criteria are outlined in section 6 above.
SANParks will demonstrate that the acquisition of any farms that have particularly
high numbers of employees is critical to the long term ecological goals of the
expansion programme. The final shape and size of the gAENP should thus be a matter
of negotiation and deliberation.
Principle 2: Genuine consultation and participation must take place
Genuine consultation and negotiation will take place with interested and affected
parties. This means that the final outcome of proposed land incorporation and
resettlement options is not clear at the outset and that all interests will be taken
seriously. Local level consultative fora will therefore be formed (see below).
Consultation and participation will take place during project planning and
implementation and as a part of project monitoring.
Fora will be given official recognition within the gAENP institutional framework, as
part of the proposed Resettlement Working Group.
Principle 3: Establish a pre-resettlement baseline
A comprehensive baseline survey is in the process of being established as part of the
RAP process. It will include a detailed register of the farm employees, their
dependants, income and associated benefits, housing details and employment route.
16



This data base will be drawn-up and maintained for all properties purchased and
incorporated into the gAENP.
Principle 4: Support relocation
All aspects of resettlement including relocation destinations, housing designs, income
restoration strategies, garden sites and, where applicable, agricultural sites etc. will be
planned and completed prior to inhabitants either moving and/or losing out on any
benefits in terms of their current situation. Financial and technical support, staff and
vehicles will be allocated to ensure that inhabitants are able to move all their goods,
settle onto new properties and, where necessary, initiate new livelihoods with minimal
disruption by agreed dates.
Principle 5: Negotiate and provide fair and equitable compensation options
Individuals and households who are resettled shall be no worse off than prior to
resettlement. A number of possible income restoration/compensation options will be
made available and explained and negotiated to the satisfaction of the affected parties.
(see annex 2). Private properties to be purchased will be done so on a willing buyer
willing seller basis. Alternatively, and where appropriate, contractual/management
arrangements will be entered into. In instances where all other negotiations fail, and
as a last resort, such land will be purchased via expropriation. Prices will be based
upon a valuation undertaken by an independent state-approved assessor. Normally
above average prices will be paid to the seller meeting his legal and financial
responsibilities towards his farm employees.
SANParks will through negotiation and written agreement with land owners stress
their legal and financial obligations to employees. SANPark's will monitor and ensure
that existing host community workers on farms purchased by farmers incorporated
into the gAENP do not lose any benefits from the arrival of new farmers and their
workers from the said properties. In the event that a seller reneges on his legal
responsibility towards his employees or inhabitants are found to be worse off through
land incorporation than prior to incorporation, SANParks will take on the relevant
portion of the resettlement liability. This may include the employment and
accommodation responsibilities of the employees and dependants. Employment may
include no less than placement in the 4 year Poverty Relief programme, currently
operating in the gAENP area. If permanent employment through SANParks becomes
available, these workers will receive first preference. Workers may remain living in
their current accommodation while SANParks negotiates with Local Government and
the Department of Housing to obtain the Rl 5 000 per household Government Grant to
build a house in the town of the worker's choice. SANParks shall also seek legal
recourse to the seller where they renegade on their commitments or disadvantage
workers on newly acquired farms through bringing workers and inhabitants with
them.
In the event that a property is expropriated, SANParks will take on all responsibilities
including the employment and accommodation responsibilities of these affected farm
employees. Resettled workers discussed above will be included in capacity building
programmes to enhance their prospects of advancement and further employment.
Any appropriate temporary and permanent employment positions within SANParks
will be initially offered to these affected farm employees (depending upon their
17



qualifications and skills), followed by the surrounding communities, and broader
public, respectively.
SANParks will also actively engage with local governments and other responsible
government departments to incorporate farm employees directly affected by the park
expansion programmes into their housing and employment programmes.
Principle 6: Ensure that directly affected communities benefit from resettlement
Replacing housing or arable land at the level enjoyed before resettlement amounts in
theory to the restoration of the status quo. In practice, such 'mathematical' restoration
can leave people worse-off if they are cut off from their resource base. For there to be
development, people must be actively better off than before, and in a manner, which
is sustainable. Resettled people are entitled to development, as they sacrifice
economic, social, and territorial ties and resources for the benefit of others. The
SANParks Conservation-Social Ecology Policy states its intention to 'give support to,
and open up opportunities for, those communities that were dislocated and
marginalised when national parks were originally set up' (http://www.parks-
sa.co.za/conservation/social ecology.html). In the gAENP context this means
providing access to jobs arising out of gAENP or by providing productive farms/land
to resettle farm workers.
The SANParks will draw up a specific list of jobs arising out of gAENP, together with
the training needs and related budgetary and staff requirements. This amounts to the
principle of benefit sharing, promoted by the World Bank, whereby the affected
people are entitled to share in the benefits of an overall project. This will include their
having first claim upon benefits such as jobs as they become available as a result of
the gAENP initiative.
Principle 7: Cater for vulnerable population
Vulnerable groups merit particular support in a number of ways. Members of
vulnerable groups are often not able to make their voice heard effectively and account
should be taken of this in the consultation and planning processes, as well as in
establishing grievance procedures. They are often physically weaker and may need
special help in the relocation phase, as well as additional rations, assistance and
medical attention in settling onto new properties. Physically or socially weaker people
are often short on strength and skills. They tend to get sidelined in the competition for
jobs or benefits. Their special needs will thereby be identified and catered for.
Principle 8: Budget for resettlement as an upfront project cost
Experience across the world shows that unless resettlement is built in as an upfront
project cost, it tends to be under budgeted, that money gets whittled away from the
resettlement budget to 'more pressing' project needs, and that it tends to be seen as
peripheral to the overall project. SANParks will, in conjunction with other relevant
government departments, ensure that resettlement costs, including providing for those
workers already displaced from farms as a result of the gAENP initiative, are built
into the overall gAENP project budget.
Principle 9: Establish an independent monitoring and grievance procedure
Monitoring of the resettlement aspect of the gAENP project will be undertaken by an
independent Monitoring Team appointed by SANParks. Grievance procedures will be
18



organised in such a way that they are accessible to all affected parties, with particular
concern for the situation of vulnerable groupings. Since resettlement should inevitably
be a phased activity, with some groups and families moving after others, care will be
taken to ensure ongoing lines of communication and feedback between processes of
monitoring and complaint on the one hand, and of planning and implementation on
the other.
Principle 10: SANParks accepts responsibility for ensuring proper resettlement
planning and implementation
Ultimate responsibility for protecting those displaced by the purchase and/or
expropriation of land will rest with SANParks. SANParks, as an organ of state, has
the added responsibility to ensure that the constitutional objective of securing
"ecologically sustainable development and use of natural resources while promoting
justifiable economic and social development" is adhered to. This includes ensuring
that landowners fully replace all benefits, which workers enjoyed on previous farms,
on new farms. Specifically, the development of the gAENP as an alternative resource
management programme should not be prejudicial to the objective of ensuring that the
livelihoods of some of the country's most marginal employees (farm workers) are
maintained or that viable alternatives are provided.
The onus therefore rests with SANParks to ensure that those displaced by the
incorporation of land are adequately cared for and that host communities on farms are
not disadvantaged.
Principle 11: Comply to legislation
SANParks will comply with all legal requirements as regards resettlement, including
OP/BP 4.12. Workers/households displaced from farms from 1997 onwards will fall
within the requirements of this framework and, by the end of the first year of
implementation, all reasonable efforts will have been made to trace previously
displaced occupants of farms and to ensure that RAP's are developed with and for
them.
Principle 12: Adhere to eligibility criteria for resettlement
The following members of the community will qualify for resettlement compensation:
* Farm workers and their families on farms yet to be acquired.
* Those workers and their families who have already been displaced.
Categories of population potentially affected but not specifically eligible for
compensation:
* Seasonal workers are not specifically eligible as they are only partially affected,
being mobile and selling labour in an area wider than gAENP. Furthermore, it is
almost impossible to accurately trace seasonal workers and to measure their losses
with any degree of confidence.
* People living in the gAENP and environs that rely on the current socio-economic
configuration around agriculture for their livelihood. It is not possible to quantify
potential losses and it is anticipated that the conversion from farming to
agriculture will create substitutional advantages.
* Host towns which may receive ex-farm workers e.g. the residents of Paterson
Township.
19



Categories ofpopulation which could become eligible for compensation / monitoring
* Host communities on farms acquired by ex-Addo farmers. SANPark's will need to
monitor to ensure that existing farm workers are not removed to make way for ex-
Addo farm workers. In instances where this happens the RPF may be applicable.
*  Ex-Addo workers who move with farmers to new farms and whose resettlement
expectations are not met.
20



Figure 1: Resettlement flow diagram
Are farm workers             |N 
Aresent on farm workhavers   INo further requirement
present on farm or have         [    l      1      o eeteetato
any been dismissed in                       *     for resettlement action
anticipation of sale
Can all workers be            2- No further requirement
accommodated by      ___________
accommodated by    [E    l~   ~       for resettlement action,
farmer on another farm                     1,      or ttlementacin,
ateuvln.  em                                  other than monitoring
at equivalent terms
Can workers be                                 Workers inducted into
satisfactorily employed                            new employment and
by SANParks or                                   appropriate training
concession at                                 provided. Formpartof
equivalent rates and                                   to Forptof
packages                         g~~~~~~~~roup tobe monitored
packages
No
Are suitable SANParks           F   <                Workers receive
or concession                                     transitional support until
employment       oemployment is
opportunities                                      available. First call on
become available in                                 Poverty Relief jobs
short-term (2 years)?
Workers must be
accommodated in
another income
restoration strategy and
monitored
21



7.2 Generic income restoration options
Based on the above information and the RPF, a series of 6 RAP options were then
developed as follows:
Following a consultative process with the Department of Land Affairs, farmers and
farm workers, SANParks agreed to the following RAPs options. By designing these
options SANParks has endeavoured to implement the RPF.
Option 1.
The farmer offered the workers a similar job, with a similar salary and housing and
other benefits at another farm. The workers are happy with this and have agreed to
move with the farmer.
Option 2.
As a result of having made been destitute by the sale of the property, the workers who
had been working as permanent employees', agree to be employed in the SANParks
- Poverty Relief Programme, until the discontinuation of the said programme in 4
years time. In terms of this option the workers understand the following:
*  that the worker's dependants and himself/herself may continue to live in their
current accommodation until the discontinuation of the programme, after which
alternative arrangements will be made. In the meantime SANParks will continue
to negotiate with the Department of Local Government and Housing to obtain the
RI 5 000 grant per household, so that the worker will have housing to the same or
better standard in the town of his choice.
*  that the Poverty Relief Programme pays R35 per day and will provide transport to
and from the jobsite.
* that alternative arrangements for accommodation will be made should the jobsite
be too far to travel to on a daily basis.
*  that the worker will be included in a capacity building programme through the
Poverty Relief Programme and SANParks to increase his/her opportunities in the
greater job market.
*  SANParks will be liable for providing all other benefits enjoyed by the worker
and his dependants.
Option 3.
The farmer has offered the worker a job at another farm but, because it is not in an
area that he/she is familiar with, the farmer has 'assisted/will assist' the worker in
finding another job at a farm or in a town nearby, with access to housing and similar
benefits. Until such time, the farmer assumes responsibility for providing benefits to
the worker.
Option 4.
The farmer will offer the worker another job when he moves (location still unknown).
However, until such time that he knows where he will settle next, the worker is not
ready to make a decision to move. In the meantime the worker will continue to work
l It is agreed that the SANParks - Poverty Relief Programme will employ all permanent workers. Casual workers
who have been working and living on the farm for a number of years will receive second priority for upcoming jobs.
If and when permanent jobs within the gAENP arise, these jobs will be offered to the affected workers as a first
port of call.
22



on the current farm, with the same benefits such as salary and housing. The worker is
aware that SANParks now has all his/her details on record and will monitor his /her
future movements.
Option 5.
This option is still in negotiation and planning stages and has therefore not been
offered to workers as yet. SANParks in conjunction with the Department of Land
Affairs (DLA) can apply on behalf of workers who choose to remain within the
agricultural sector for a Land Reform Grant. This grants each household about
R20000 to assist in starting up an agricultural related activity. Workers will be
accommodated on productive land and undergo extensive capacity building/training
exercises to assist them to build up their activities into profitable businesses, related to
the conservation and tourism activities of the gAENP. The DLA has already indicated
that they would also contribute towards an agricultural - resource economist to assist
in identifying possible activities.
Option 6.
The worker becomes employed by SANParks in a permanent position with full
employment benefits. e.g. as a field ranger.
Figure 2: Interviewing members of the community
'Jansen and Jill
Jill Gordon obtaining endorsement from a worker.
23



Bouwer Sarie
8. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
8.1 Process for developing future RAP's for currently displaced workers
The RAP's address the six farms proposed for purchase in year 1 of the Addo
expansion. The process for developing RAP's for subsequent phases will be an
iterative process, in the sense that the RPF and the RAP for Phase I resettlement will
serve as the model for subsequent phases. The experience gained from Phase I will
thus feed into subsequent phases in a cumulative fashion, correcting any mistakes and
allowing for any significant differences in the nature of resettlement issues in
subsequent phases. The following process will be used to determine eligibility.
Table 4. Eligibility process for currently displaced workers and dependants
(change layout)
Issue                Process
Advertising.         SANParks will place an advert that states that people who
were displaced by the purchase of land for the gAENP
between February 1997 and March 2003 must make
themselves known. Advertisements will be placed in
Afrikaans, English and Xhosa in local newspapers and on
radio stations, as well as in areas likely to be populated by
those displaced e.g. the towns of Addo, Jansenville,
Kirkwood and Paterson.
Poster Campaign      Posters should be distributed in areas likely to be populated
by those displaced e.g. the towns of Addo, Jansenville,
Kirkwood and Paterson.
Direct contact and Contact and interview community organisations, such as
interviews           Advice Offices and Farmer's Associations.
Public Meetings      Coordinate and facilitate all public meetings.
24



Registration:       Claimants must register (name, identity number and contact
details) with agents to be appointed by SANParks.
Details of Claim:   The agents must interview claimants and document the
nature and detail of the claim. This should include as much
information as possible on family members and neighbours
who were displaced from the same or neighbouring farms.
Investigation:      The agents must then investigate the claim by cross-
referencing information obtained from the claimant with the
SANParks database.
Reporting:          The agents must submit written reports to the Resettlement
Working Group (which includes SANPark representation).
Decision:           Based on the findings of the written report, the RWG must
decide at its next meeting on the legitimacy of a claim and
communicate this back to the agent.
Appeal.             The agent must inform the claimant of the decision as well
as of the claimant's right to appeal (in writing), should the
claim be unsuccessful.
The process requires that the following mechanisms to be developed:
Consultative Mechanisms, including the proposed Resettlement Working Group (see
below);
Grievance Redress Mechanisms (see below); and
Monitoring Mechanisms (see below).
It is essential that there is ongoing communication between these three mechanisms. It
is perceived that there will be some continuity in membership of these three bodies
across the various phases of the gAENP project, to enable a transfer of experience to
take place.
8.2 RAP process for workers and inhabitants who may be displaced in future
* The data base under development will be used to identify affected members as
farms are about to be purchased.
*  Consultations and negotiations will then be held and draft RAP's developed
prior to any negative impacts.
*  Once negotiated the RAP's will then be implemented and monitored.
The organisational chart for the implementation of resettlement is outlined in Fig. 3.
below.
25



Figure 3: Organizational responsibility for delivery
AENP Steering
/l ~~Commiftee l
SANParks                  Resettlement                    Monitoring
Agents                  W Working Group                    Team
Local fora/ affected
Workers and Farmers
8.3 Consultative mechanisms
Provision will be made for all people affected by resettlement, and the associated
processes to which it gives rise, to be represented in consultative mechanisms. This
will enable parties to make their voices heard and to make meaningful input into the
design of the RAP's. Consultative mechanisms will be structured at two levels:
8.3.1 Local level fora
Local level consultative fora will be elected, convened and run by the affected parties
themselves and recognised by SANParks for purposes of liaison and communication,
as well as for the election of representatives to the proposed Resettlement Working
Group (RWG). Such local level fora will each have a constitution and keep regular
minutes. If needed, they will be provided with training and seed money to be able to
become functional. The local level fora are designed to empower resettlement-
affected constituencies. To this end, they will be entitled to take grievances and
appeals to the appropriate channels but will be encouraged to first channel these to the
RWG. (see below). The proposed independent Monitoring Group will monitor the
activities and minutes of the RWG. Secondly, the local level fora will elect
representatives to the RWG (see below) in such a way as to allow for representation
of the main categories of affected parties.
8.3.2 Resettlement Working Group (RWG)
The RWG will act as the primary advisory body to SANParks in all matters relating to
resettlement. It will be constituted to be the primary representative voice of those
26



affected by resettlement. It will report to the gAENP Steering Committee. It will have
the following functions:
* To act as the primary higher level channel of communication between the
various interest groups/organisations involved in the planning and
implementation of the RAP's. In particular, it will serve to facilitate
communication between SANParks and the affected populace.
*  To serve as the court of first appeal to solve any problems including
grievances.
*  Assist the SANParks in overseeing the resettlement processes in all its phases.
*  Monitoring the implementation of the RAP's.
The composition of the RWG will be as follows:
* A representative of each of the following four affected constituencies
o Farm workers who have previously been displaced and may be displaced
by Phase I of gAENP.
o Farmers who have been or are to be bought out by Phase I of gAENP.
O Host communities, such as the townships of towns such as Addo,
Jansenville, Kirkwood and Patterson, which have been, and could be,
receiving farm workers moving off designated farms since 1 January 1997.
Host community representative from farms.
o Representatives of Addo Elephant National Park, responsible for
resettlement as well as a senior SANParks official as chair.
* A representative of each of the following departments of the Government of
the Eastern Cape.
o Land Affairs
o Agriculture
o Tourism
*  A representative of the Resettlement Monitoring Team, when it is on site (only
to be co-opted if and when necessary).
*  A representative from  surrounding farms/agriculture. This representative
would help to identify employment opportunities on neighbouring farms.
*  An outside member with the necessary resettlement expertise.
The RWG will meet at least once every three to four months, following standard
accepted practise. The chair will report to the AENP Park Steering Committee and the
independent Monitoring Team. Meetings will be advertised beforehand and will be
open to members of the public for information. Provision for translation between
Afrikaans, English and Xhosa will be made at RWG meetings.
Claims are unlikely to be approved without referral to the RWG for information and
comment unless exceptional circumstances prevail.
8.4 SANParks role
The ultimate responsibility for delivery and implementation of the RAP's rests with
SANParks. SANParks will ensure staff support for the planning and implementation
of the RAP's. It may, in addition, source consultants to support the resettlement
officer. Independent consultants will be contracted to produce independent monitoring
reports twice per annum.
27



SANParks role will include:
* Planning and managing implementation of all approved RAP's in accordance
with the RPF.
* Ensuring the maximum participation of the affected parties in the planning of
the RAP's.
* Obtaining/accessing and coordinating funding for the implementation of the
RAP's.
* Overseeing the training necessary for the ex-farmworkers to be inducted into
new employment opportunities.
* Ensuring the monitoring and evaluation of the RAPs and the undertaking of
appropriate remedial action so as to deal with grievances and to ensure that
income restoration is satisfactorily implemented.
* Chairing the RWG.
In the spirit of co-operative governance, SANParks will engage the assistance of
relevant govemment departments such as the Department of Agriculture, Land
Affairs, Local Government and Housing.
8.5 Grievance redress mechanisms
Grievance redress mechanisms are essential tools for allowing affected people to
voice concems about the resettlement and compensation process as they arise and for
corrective action to be taken timeously. Such mechanisms are fundamental to
achieving transparency in the resettlement process. The proposed dispute or grievance
mechanisms are as follows:
* Disputes over value of compensation for land to be incorporated into the
gAENP. Disputes over the value of compensation will be referred to the
RWG. If deemed necessary by the RWG, the case should be re-investigated.
If the dispute cannot be resolved in this manner, the complainant has the right
to seek legal redress, with the loser, as per norm, paying the court costs of the
winner.
* All other disputes and grievances should be referred to the Resettlement
Grievance Officer and follow the process as set out in Figure 4 below i.e.
grievances and disputes can ultimately be lodged with the SANParks Board
for a decision. A written record of all disputes/grievances raised and dealt with
during the resettlement and compensation process should be kept by the RGO.
The record of grievances lodged with the RGO will be monitored by the RWG
and by the independent Monitoring Team. This should be undertaken as part
of the on-going monitoring and evaluation process.
28



Figure 4: Grievance procedure
Affected party
declares a
grievance
Grievance resolved
Grievance sent to                                         ---     No Further action
RGO and
Resettlement
Grevance resolved
Grievance  sent to   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
RWG          l                                               No Further action
Gnevance resolved
Grievance      |                                               No Further action
considered by
AENP Steering
|Gevance resolvedJ
Grievance sent to  |                                               No Further action
SANParks Board
29



8.6 Monitoring
SANParks will appoint an independent Monitoring Team to monitor the
implementation of the RAP's and the resettlement process. The Monitoring Team will
be contracted to visit the gAENP twice per year. It will draft its reports before the end
of each visit for submission to the Park Manager, the AENP Steering Committee and
the RWG. The Monitoring Team's costs will be funded out of the SANPark's
resettlement budget.
A database of all affected workers on both priority farms and all farms incorporated
since 1997, is in the process of being compiled. This includes a photographic record
of the workers and their housing. This information will also be provided to the RWG.
The Social Ecologist, based in the gAENP, will in future supervise the resettlement
planning process on each farm.
30



PART 2:
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLANS (RAP's) PLUS
INCOME RESTORATION STRATEGIES
Developed by Jill Gordon of SANPark's
31



1. PURPOSE
This section of the report presents the proposed RAP's for the six priority farms
proposed for inclusion into the gAENP during year I of project implementation.
The priority farms have been purchased by SANParks for inclusion into the gAENP,
over the last year (2002-2003), but are all at different stages of completion.2 The
purchase priorities have been set in terms of the previously described land
incorporation framework.
2. METHODOLOGY
Based on the RPF and a survey of the 6 farns, a data base was developed and
interviews conducted ultimately resulting in the design and negotiation of the RAP's
including the preferred income restoration strategies. Access to farms was negotiated
with the relevant landowners and where farmers were no longer on the farms they
were interviewed, where possible, at their place of residence.
In addition to interviews undertaken on the identified farms, some ex-farmworkers
were interviewed in the towns of Addo and Paterson to develop an overview of the
socio-economic situation of those displaced from previously acquired farms. They
were identified by using a "snowballing technique", following up leads from
interviews with current farmworkers. All interviews were conducted in the mother
tongue of interviewees.
The RPF as an essential part of the Strategic Environmental Assessment, has been
widely distributed for comment. The SANParks also received comment on the RPF
and RAPs from the Department of Land Affairs (DLA). This letter is included as
Annex 1.
Prior to these interviews the farmers were interviewed to ascertain whether they were
aware of their responsibilities in terms of the Extension of Security and Tenure Act
(ESTA), especially in terms of their responsibilities towards their farm workers. All
farm owners were aware of ESTA and its implications and in most cases were able to
offer workers alternative work on another farm. In the cases where the farmer had
either reneged on his responsibilities or could not reach an agreement with the
affected worker/s, SANParks offered the workers the option of working for the
SANParks - Poverty Relief Programme. It is however a concern to SANParks that
ESTA is not properly enforced, which results in a lot of farmers "dumping" their
workers in nearby towns without any compensation. The SANParks purchase contract
clearly stipulates that it is the owner's responsibility to compensate or find alternative
work for resident workers. If landowners refuse to compensate workers/families
appropriately, SANParks will have to resort to legal action. In the interim where
SANParks becomes aware that landowners have reneged on their responsibilities it
will develop and implement RAP's as outlined above to compensate ex-workers and
their dependants.
2 Contract has been signed, but terms are different in terms of dates when farmers should leave the farm. Thus
some farmers are still currently residing on the farms, while others have moved to another location.
32



3. MAIN FINDINGS
There are 69 dependants plus workers on the six farms. This comprises 26 main bread
winners, another 9 income earners and 34 dependants. SANParks is currently
responsible for ensuring that no less than 10 permanent workers (8 main bread
winners + 2 additional workers) plus 10 dependants are compensated by it. This
number could decrease if placements are found on farms as discussed with farmers
and farm workers.
Figure 5: The six (6) priority farms are indicated on a Map 1, below:
49          z'~~~~a C,*  WInd
~~   B~~~,na.i amnd         k~~~~~Bd Wnd
South Africa_                                                _
\~~~~ L \i 
Existing National Park< []Van Tonder, Machfiel
A  LUrban keas      LILombard, Cornelius
~~~~ ~~~~~                       -  ~~~~~~~Raiway  I]Lombard, Jarobus
-Major Road           Christo Lombard Family Trust
J Lefras Kruger
0 .  10  20  30 4"Iometers                   Hendersen
33



4. INCOME RESTORATION STRATEGIES
Table 5: The following income restoration strategies have been agreed with each
household:
Farm              Affected        Income Restoration    Notes
household       Strategy
Altever - Lefras  Breadwinner A   Option 1.             Mr A worked for
Kruger            (3 dependants -  Mr. A will be moving  Mr. Kruger as
wife and 2      to another farm as a  temporary
daughters)      permanent employee    employee.
with a brick house, sink
roof and 4 rooms. He
will be taking his wife
and daughters with
him. His wife will work
as a casual, sorting
wool. His salary will
remain the same.
Breadwinner B   Option 2. Mr. B has   Mr. B was born on
(1 dependant -  agreed to move back  the farm and has
wife)           onto the farm into the  worked for the
house he has lived in  farmer's family
for 34 years and      for about 34 years.
therefore has tenure,  When SANParks
according to ESTA. He  purchased the
has agreed to become  farm, the farmer
employed in the       reportedly
SANParks - Poverty    "dumped" him and
Relief Programme,     his Wife in
with a salary of three  Somerset East,
times as much as he   with a small
used to earn as a farm  unemployment
worker, work clothing,  benefit, which was
I main meal per day   consequently
and transport to and  stolen, as Mr. B is
from the worksite. His  totally illiterate
wife also has the option  and did not know
to work for the Poverty  the correct
Relief Programme.     procedures to
draw on this
unemployment
benefit.
34



Farm                 Affected     Income Restoration   Notes
household    Strategy
Grobblerskraal -  Worker C (no    Option 1.
Dave Hendersen    dependants)     Mr. C has already
moved with the farmer
to another farm and is
now a permanent
employee with an
increased salary.
Breadwinner D   Option 6.            Mr. D's salary has
(wife and       Mr. D was a general  improved to 5
daughter)       worker on the farm, but times more than
is now permanently   what he earned as
employed as a Field  a farm worker. He
ranger for SANParks.  now also receives
pension benefits as
a SANParks'
employee. He
continues to live in
his farmhouse
(brick house, sink
roof, 4 rooms)
Breadwinner E   As above.            As above
(wife and
daughter)
Middelfontein -   Worker F (no    Option 2/ unresolved.  Mr. F is
Machiel (Gielie)  dependants)     SANParks management apparently
van Tonder                        agreed to try and    mentally
integrate Mr. F into the  challenged and
Poverty Relief       would not allow
Programme, while he  himself to be
remains in his current  interviewed. The
accommodation.       farmer and his
sister, who also
works for the same
farm, answered on
his behalf.
Breadwinner G   Option 2/Unresolved.  As the farmer will
(I dependant -  Although SANParks    be discontinuing
daughter)       offered Saariel a job in  all his farming
the Poverty Relief   operations and
Programme, she       will be moving to
declined this position,  a town, he has
35



Farm              Affected       Income Restoration    Notes
household       Strategy
as she prefers to move  endeavoured to
back to the town of  pay out the
Somerset East. She has  worker's
however agreed to     unemployment + a
reconsider working in  six month salary.
the programme should  In addition he will
the programme wish to  be building onto
employ people from   the worker's
Somerset East and she  father's house in
would be able to work  Somerset East, in
from home. SANParks  order to provide
will hand her name to  extra space for the
the programme and    worker and her
monitor all          daughter.
possibilities.        The far mer also
endeavours to find
another job the
breadwinner.
Kruidfontein -    Breadwinner H   Option 1.            Mr. H is retired
Christo Lombard  (1 dependant -   Will be moving with  and receiving a
grandchild)     the farmer, not      state pension but
employed, but already  will go with
retired and receiving a  farmer to other
state pension.       farm. He will live
in a similar house
(3 bedrooms,
brick, sink roof,
bathroom).
Breadwinner I (4 Option 1.
dependants -    Moving with farmer
mother and      with same
sisters)        responsibilities and
same housing.
Breadwinner J   Option 2.            The farmer cannot
(2 dependants -  Will become part of  accommodate Mr
common law      SANParks Poverty     J on the other farm
wife and 1 child) Relief Programme   and worker has no
other options.
36



Farm              Affected        Income Restoration    Notes
household       Strategy
Worker K (no    Option 2.             The farmer cannot
dependants)     Will become part of   accommodate
SANParks Poverty      worker K on the
Relief Programme      other farm and
worker has no
other options.
Worker L (no    Option 1.
dependants)     Moving with farmer
with same
responsibilities and
same housing.
Worker M        Option 1.
Moving with farmer
with same
responsibilities and
same housing.
Breadwinner N   Option 1.
(3 children - 1  Moving with farmer
also employed   with same
by farmer)      responsibilities and
same housing.
Breadwinner 0   Option 2/unresolved.  The farmer has
(no dependants)  SANParks has Mr. O's  offered Mr 0
details on record and  another job at the
will monitor what will  next farm, but he
happen to him         has not decided as
yet to go with.
Worker P (no    Option 1.
dependants)     Moving with farmer
with same
responsibilities and
same housing.
37



Farm              Affected        Income Restoration    Note
household       Strategy
Breadwinner Q   Option 2.             The farmer has
(wife - works as  Although SANParks is  offered Mr and
domestic for    concerned about the   Mrs Q a job on the
farmer, 1 - 17  problem cases of the  other farm but
year old son,   children, a job has been  does not want the
daughter 34,    offered to the couple in  children to go
sometimes       the Poverty Relief    along, as they
casual on farm.)  Programme. They will  have apparently
continue to live in the  been problem
current house.        cases as in
drunken sprawls
and stock theft.
The workers have
therefore opted to
not go with the
farmer.
Breadwinner R   Option 1.
(3 dependants,  Moving with farmer
wife also works  with same
for farmer + 2  responsibilities and
sons)           same housing.
Worker S (no    Option 2              Casual worker and
dependants)                           will not be moving
with the farmer.
Worker T (no    Option 2              Casual worker and
dependants)                           will not be moving
with the farmer.
Schoemanskroon -  Worker U (no    Option 1.
Cornelius (Neels)  dependants)    The farmer offered this
Lombard                           worker a similar job,
with a similar salary
and housing at another
farm. Mr. U is happy
with this and has
agreed to move with
the farmer.
38



Farm              Affected        Income restoration    Notes
household       strategy
Mr V (2 other   Option 1.
workers in his  The farmer offered
house, who also  these workers a similar
works for the   job, with a similar
farmer - his son, salary and housing at
and nephew,     another farm. The
and 2           workers are happy with
dependants, his  this and have agreed to
daughter and    move with the farmer.
granddaughter)
Ms W (1         Option 1.
daughter who    Same as above
also works for
the farmer and 2
dependants -
daughter and
niece)
Volkesrivier -    Breadwinner X   Option 4.             This couple has
Jakobus (Kobus)   (wife, who also  The farmer had offered  worked on this
Lombard           works for the   the worker another job  farm for 9 years
farmer and 3    when he moves,        and is happy with
dependants -2   however until such    life on the farm.
daughters and 1  time that he knows
son.            where he will settle
next, the worker is not
ready to make a
decision to go along to
the other farm. In the
meantime the worker
will continue to work
on the current farm,
with the same benefits
such as salary and
housing. The worker is
aware that SANParks
now has all his/her
details on record and
will monitor his /her
future movements
39



Farm              Affected        Income Restoration    Notes
household       Strategy
Breadwinner Y   Option 4.
(3 dependants -  Same as above
mother, sister
and daughter)
Breadwinner Z   Option 4.
(3 dependants -  Same as above
2 daughters, 1
son)
5. MONITORING PROCESS
A database of all affected workers on both priority farms, ie the remaining 7 farms
proposed for phase 1 inclusion and on all other farms proposed for inclusion into the
gAENP is in the process of being compiled. This includes a photographic record of
the workers and their housing. This information will be provided to the RWG and
used by SANParks to develop and monitor implementation of the RAP's as well as
the socio-economic situation of workers and dependants moving out of Addo to other
farms with farmers. At some point SANParks will need to introduce monitoring of
host farm communities to ensure that they are not disadvantaged. An independent bi-
annual review will be put into place to monitor the implementation of the RAP's.
Figure 6: Consultant interviewing farm workers for resettlement data base.
A~~~~~~
Figure 7: Ronnie Gcagciso, who now works as a SANParks field officer - former
farm worker in Addo area.
40



Gcagciso Ronnie2
6. CONCLUSION
Having followed the recommendations made in the RPF for +, SANParks is confident
that the process for drawing up RAPs is thorough, participative and consultative.
SANParks is committed to implement this process with each and every piece of land
to be included (whether by direct purchase or by contractual means) into the gAENP.
In doing so SANParks will ensure:
* Maximum participation by the affected people in the entire resettlement
process through setting up of the Resettlement Working Group and drawing
up RAPs.
*  proper identification of those already displaced from farms that have been
bought up for the gAENP, through a database, currently being collated.
* That appropriate jobs are identified for those who have been displaced, and
who continue to be displaced, and reserving these employment opportunities
for them, either through the Poverty Relief Programme or as permanent
employees as jobs become available.
* Training for the displaced workers in order to ensure that they will be able to
perform satisfactorily in their new jobs, as part of the identified capacity
building programme.
*  Providing altemative accommodation and facilities for those losing access to
benefits on the farms acquired/to be acquired, by allowing workers to continue
to live in their current accommodation while working for the Poverty Relief
programme, while SANParks negotiates with the Department of Housing to
obtain the RI 5 000 grant per household to build a house in the town of their
own choice.
*  investigation of the viability of altemative income generating strategies and
management of the implementation of these strategies, particularly through
negotiations with the Department of Land Affairs in terms of the Land Reform
Grants, which afford each household a grant of R20 000, through which
profitable agricultural activities may result.
41



APPENDIXES
42



Annexure 1:
Comments on the process by the Department of Land Affairs. (signed letter in
hard copy)
DEPARTMENT: LAND AFFAIRS
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
EC LAND REFORM OFFICE, Private Bag X19951, PORT ELIZABETH, 6000 -
Tel (041) 586 3565; Fax (041) 586 0195
:7    PE 6/3/1O/A3/3
'2~-  TC Beeton
The Assistant Co-Ordinator for the gAENP Programme
South African National Parks
PO Box 20419
Humewood
6013
Dear Ms Gordon
Re: DEPARTMENTS INVOLVEMENT AND OPINION ON gAENP
PROGRAMME AND RESETTLEMENT POLICY
I refer to your e-mail dated 27 January 2003 and addressed to my colleague Mr
Mxolisi Ngangani.
The writer and Mr Ngangani have perused the draft documentation dealing with Land
Incorporation Framework and Resettlement Management Framework as
presented by your institution. You have requested feedback on these documents and
in particular requested an endorsement by this Department of the gAENP Programme
initiatives.
As previously stated in various communication and platformns, this Department fully
supports the broader initiative if this would mean the improvement of socio-economic
conditions of the area as a whole and the marginalised communities in particular.
As roleplayers may have noted from our interaction, this Department, notwithstanding
its support for the broader initiative, has a responsibility in ensuring that the rights of
farm dwellers and/or occupiers are not compromised in the process. The Department
has set out to further assess how it could optimally use its resources in partnership
with the other roleplayers to ensure that agricultural initiatives could be embarked
43



upon to ensure that the communities who previously relied on employment on the
acquired farms could be catered for.
This Department acknowledges your recognition in fulfilling your mandate that
"resettlement cannot occur in isolation, but rather through a joint effort by various
responsible government departments" and also that SANP "acknowledges the legal
obligation and responsibilities associated with park expansion services".
As a Department therefore and in the light of the afore-mentioned, there are a few
issues that relate to the tenure security of the farm occupiers that need further redress.
It is however fair to mention that these are continuously being addressed by all
roleplayers.
It is expected that many of these concerns will be further addressed in future meetings
and with the release of the Resettlement Action Plans for each property acquired.
This Department is however encouraged by the input of roleplayers thus far, as well
as the efforts of the SANP in ensuring that such inputs are taken note of. It is
anticipated the further communication with the relevant roleplayers would seriously
address the findings and the recommendations in the Resettlement Framework and
Action Plan Summary for the gAENP.
This Department looks forward to further engaging with yourself and other
roleplayers on this initiative.
With kind regards.
Signature
for DLA PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR: EASTERN CAPE PROVINCE
DATE: 26 February 2003
44



Annexure 2:
Pro forma: Relocation Plans for below-mentioned farm workers: (signed
endorsements in hard copy)
Farm   name: .......................................
Farm   owner: ......................................
SANParks staff member: .      ................. Title: .
Independent person: ................. Title:.
Farm worker/s + dependants:
Farm workers'     Dependant's names        Option          Worker's
names                                decided on        signatures
(indicate
number)
1/we.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I/w e  . ............................................................................
...................................................................................................................................
agree that the Greater Addo Elephant National Park project has been explained to
me/us, in my/our own language. I/we understand the implications of the Extension
and Security Act (ESTA), explained to me/us by a staff member of SANParks and an
independent consultant. I/we understand that due to this process the following options
45



are available to me. I have chosen the option that suits me the best and am happy with
my choice.
1. The farmer has offered me a similar job, with a similar salary and housing at
another farm. I am happy to move to this other farm under the same conditions
2. Employed in the SANParks - Poverty Relief Programme for no more than 4 years,
until the discontinuation of said programme:
In terms of this option I/we understand the following:
*  that my dependants and I may continue to live in my/our current
accommodation, until the discontinuation of the programme, after which
alternative arrangements will be made.
*  that the Poverty Relief Programme pays R35 per day and will provide
transport to and from the jobsite.
* that alternative arrangements for accommodation will be made should the
jobsite be too far to travel to on a daily basis.
*  that I will be included in a capacity building programme through the Poverty
Relief Programme and SANParks to increase my opportunities in the greater
job market.
3. That the farmer has offered me another job at another farm but, because it is not in
an area that I am familiar with, the farmer has assisted me in finding another job at a
farm or in town nearby.
4. The farmer had offered me anotherjob when he moves however, until such time
that he knows where he will settle next, I am not ready to make a decision to go along
to the other farm. I am aware that SANParks now has all my details on record and will
monitor my future movements.
Signed on this day ...at..........
46



Annexure 3:
TASK ONE QUESTIONNAIRE
PRIORITY FARMS RESETTLEMENT DATABASE OF AFFECTED FARM
WORKERS
MARCH 2003
Questionnaire Background
SANParks has appointed Sandy & Mazizi Consulting cc to develop a comprehensive
database of affected farm workers on farms they have purchased for incorporation
into the Greater Addo Elephant National Park. These farms are also referred to as
priority farms. The role of Sandy & Mazizi Consulting cc is to provide SANParks
with a detailed database for use in future discussions and negotiations with affected
farm workers.
The database should include a digital record of the affected worker and their abode.
This record will be used by SANParks to track the impacts of the relocation process.
It is not the role of Sandy & Mazizi Consulting cc to discuss or negotiate with farm
workers around the relocation process. Any queries on the relocation process will be
noted as part of the process and included in the final report to SANParks.
Individual surveys are being conducted on every affected household. It is important
that the survey is conducted with the head of the household. The assistance of other
members of the household will be encouraged to ensure that the information gathered
in this process is as comprehensive as possible. All the information gathered through
this process will be verified with the farmer owner. Any discrepancies in information
will be referred back to the affected farm worker.
In order to ensure that a fair, equitable and sustainable process is implemented
accurate and comprehensive information is required.  Your participation in this
process forms an important component of ensuring that a sustainable process is
implemented and is highly appreciated.
Section 1: Introduction and Contact Details of Farm Owner and Farm
Interviewer's Name
Date
Farm Name
Unique ID No for Photograph
Farm Owners Name
Postal Address of Farm Owner
Telephonic Contact Details of
Farm Owner
Number of Employees
Number of Permanent Staff
Number of Temporary/Seasonal
47



Section 2: Introduction and Contact Details of Affected Farm Worker and
Household
Q 1. Farm    Worker's First Name          ..................................................................
Q2. Farm      Worker's Surname          ....................................................................
Q3. ID    No    ............................................................................................
Q4. Farm      Worker's Postal Address           .............................................................
..........................................................................................................
Q5. Farm     Worker's Contact Phone Number ....................................................
Q6. Contact Phone Number and Name of a relative or friend that has regular contact
with you but does not stay on this farm?
........................................................................................................
Q7. Gender (tick appropriate box)
Male ...                                                  Female.
Q8. Age ..                                            .          (provide year e.g. 1956)
Q9. Educational Level ............................................................................
QlO. Occupation on the farm, what is the main job that you do?
QI1. How long have you been employed/ working on this farm (where possible
obtain a date)?
........................................................................................................
48



Q12. What is your monthly income/salary/wage? (Check it is the monthly wage and
not weekly)
......................................................................................................
Q12.1. Do you receive an annual bonus or other bonuses?                               Y/N
Q12.2. If yes, how much and how often? ...................................................
Q12 .3. Are you the only provider?                                                    Y/N
Q12.4. If no, please tell us about ALL other household providers and their relation to
the household head?
No    Name                   Position         Relation to       Full Time      Monthly
Household         or Part         Salary or
Head              Time            Income
Section C. Spouse and Dependant Details
Q 13. Spouses First Name and Surname (if applicable)
First Name: .Su..:.....                                 S:..
Q14. What is her/his position on the farm, nature of employment?
........................................................................................................
Q15. What monthly income/wage/ salary does she/he receive?
Q1 6. What is your combined/total monthly income for the household?
Q17. How many dependants do you have?
........................................................................................................
49



Q 18. What are their names and ages?
First Name       Surname            Relationship            Date of
Birth/ Age
Section D: Benefits and other income
Q19. Other than the monthly incomes listed above do you have any other sources of
income or means of making money?                                    Y/N
Q20. If Yes, what are the other sources of income, please describe this?
........................................................... . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . .
Q2 1. How much money do you make from this and how often? (if more than one
source of extra income list these separately)
Source (list separately)                               Amount
Weekly
Monthly
Annually
Source (list separately)          _                    Amount
Weekly
Monthly
Annually
Source (list separately)          __________Amount
Weekly
Monthly
Annually
Q22. Do you have access to schooling for your dependants?           Y/N
50



Q22. 1. If Yes, describe where (on the farm/in town) and for how                  many children?
........................................................................................................
Q23. Do you have access to electricity?                                                               Y/N
Q23. 1. If Yes, describe (prepaid, the farmer pays for me or I buy my own?)
........................................................................................................
Q24. Do you have access to clean water?                                                               Y/N
Q24. 1. If Yes, describe (a running tap in your house, outside my house, elsewhere on
the farm - type e.g. borehole/dam/river)
........................................................................................................
Q25. Do you have access to sewage and sanitation?                                                     Y/N
Q25. l. If Yes, describe (flushing toilet in the house/outside toilet (type - long
drop/flushing)
.............................................................     ..  . .....      ...   ...   . ...    ...
Q26. Are you supplied with working clothes?                                                          Y/N
Q26. l. If Yes, describe? (What and how often)
........................................................................................................
....................................................................................................
Q27. Do you have access to transportation for trips to town?                                         Y/N
Q27. 1. If Yes, how many and how often? (state length of trip)
........................................................................................................
Q28. Are you provided with training or have you been trained previously?                            Y/N
Q28. l. If Yes, describe
.... ... .... ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ... ..........................................
Q29. Does the farmer pay UIF on your behalf?                                                        Y/N
51



Q30. Do you receive any form of medical assistance?                 Y/N
Q30. 1. If yes, please describe (the farmer pays for all my medical, he takes me to the
doctor but I pay for myself)
Q3 1. Do you receive any pension benefits?                          Y/N
Q31.2. If yes please describe, state how much and how often where applicable? (I
presently receive pension payouts - indicate from where (govt or farner/the farmer
will provide me with a pension when I retire/ the farmer has a pension fund for me)
Q32. Do you own any livestock?                                      Y/N
Q32. 1. If yes, list what kinds and how many?
Cattle (Cows/Bulls/Tollie)
Goats
Sheep
Pigs
Horses/ponies/donkeys/mules
Chicken
Q33. Does your homestead have access to arable land that you use for cultivation?
Y/N
Q33.1. If Yes, how many fields, what size and what crops
Crop type                                   Size of field
Q34. Do you receive any funeral benefits?                           Y/N
Q34. 1. If Yes, describe (I am provided land for a grave, the farmer pays for funerals)
52



Q35. Indicate which of the follows rations you receive on a monthly basis?
Type                                                                Quantity (kg etc)
Maize Meal
Rice
Sugar Beans
Tinned Fish
Soup Packets
Peanut Butter
Tea Bags
Coffee
Sugar
Powdered Milk
Bread
Tins of Jam
Candles
Chicken Pieces
Sunlight Soup
Toilet Paper
Firewood
Other
Other
Other
Q35. What other benefits/rations do you receive from living on the farm or from the
farmer?
........................................................................................................
........................................................................................................
Section E: Housing
Q36. No of people living permanently in the house?                 .......................................
Q37. Detailed description of the house?
No of Rooms (distinguish bedrooms from lounge and kitchen)
...............................................................................................
Size   ........................................................................................
Type (brick, wood, zinc, face brick) ..................................................
Roof Type      ................................................................................
53



Section F: General
Q38. Do you have any questions, comments or queries?
......................................................................................
..............................................................................................
.... .... .... .... ... ...............................................................  . . . . .  . .
54



Annexure 4:
List of groups and or individuals consulted during the process:
Names                         How and When
Department of Land    One on one meetings and also in group meetings
Affairs               during the Public participation Process during the
Strategic Environmental Assessment process.
Regular telephonic conversations on a weekly basis.
Local Government      One on one meetings, thus far three meetings over
the last year (2002-2003) and as part of the Addo
Planning Forum (APF) meetings, which takes place
every three months. Two independent interviews
during the RPF process - one on one.
Department of Housing  One, one on one meeting thus far and they have
been invited to sit on the APF.
Department of         One, one on one meeting thus far and have also been
Agriculture           invited to sit on the APF.
Farmer's Associations  One on one meetings at least every second month,
two workshops and they also sit on the APF.
Farmers               5 open, public meetings, one on one interviews as
inclusion arose.
Farm workers          5 open, public meetings, one on one interviews as
inclusion arose.
wb218005
Q:\My Documents\Addo\RPF and RAPs,July 15th 2003.doc
July 17, 2003 10:37 AM
55



