                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00001883



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-53110)



                                       ON A

                                     GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.5 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

                                       FOR

         THE GREATER ADDO ELEPHANT NATIONAL PARK PROJECT



                                   April 27, 2011




Environment and Natural Resource Management Unit – AFTEN
Southern Africa 1, South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Swaziland – AFCS1
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2011)

                          Currency Unit = ZAR
                          ZAR 1.00 = US$ 0.15
                          US$ 1.00 = Rand 6.64

                             FISCAL YEAR
                            April 1 – March 30




                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AENP     Addo Elephant National Park
APF      Addo Planning Forum
ART      Africa Resource Trust
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBA      Cost Benefit Analysis
CBD      Convention for Biodiversity
CBOs     Community Based Organizations
CDEA     Chief Directorate: Environmental Affairs
CDF      Conservation Development Framework
CEN      Community Environment Network
CEPF     Critical Ecosystems partnership Fund
CITES    Council for International Trade in Endangered Species
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
C-Plan   Conservation Plan
DAFF     Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
DANCED   Danish Corporation for Environment and Development
DBSA     Development Bank Southern Africa
DEA      Department of Environmental Affairs
DLA      Department of Land Affairs
DME      Department of Mineral and Energy
DPLG     Department of Provincial and Local Government
DWAF     Department of Water Affairs and Forestry
EA       Environmental Assessment
ECGMA    Eastern Cape Management Association
ECTB     East Cape Tourism Board
EE       Environmental Education
EMCAs    Environment Management Cooperation Agreements
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EMS      Environmental Management Systems
FGEF      French GEF
gAENP     Greater Addo Elephant National Park area
GEAR      Growth, Employment and Redistribution
GEF       Global Environment Fund
GEFSEC    Global Environment Facility Secretariat
GEM       Group for Environmental Monitoring
GIS       Geographical Information System
HSUS      Humane Society of the United States
IDA       International Development Assistance
IDC       Industrial Development Corporation
IDPs      Integrated Development Plans
IDZs      Industrial Development Zones
IEMS      Integrated Environmental Management System
IFAW      International Fund for Animal Welfare
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ISDS      Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
I & APs   Interested and Affected Parties
KPAs      Key Performance Areas
LFA       Logical Framework Analysis
METT      Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool
MIRS      Monitoring Information Reporting System
MNDT      Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust
MPA       Marine Protected Area
MSP       Medium Size Project
MTR       Mid-term Review
MWG       Marine Working Group
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NDA       National Development Agency
NEMA      National Environment Management Act (1998)
NGOs      Non Government Organizations
NLC       National Land Committee
NSSD      National Strategy for Sustainable Development
PAP       Project Affected Person
PC        Park Committee
PDF       Project Development Fund
PID       Project Information Document
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PMU       Project Management Unit
PSC       Project Steering Committee
PSR       Project Supervision Rating
PWG       Project Working Groups
RAMSAR    Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
RDP       Reconstruction and Development Program
RDSN      Rural Development Services Network
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
RWG        Resettlement Working Group
SAEP       Southern African Environment Project
SANGOCO    South African National NGO Coalition
SANParks   South African National Parks
SC         Steering Committee
SDIs       Spatial Development Initiatives
SEA        Strategic Environmental Assessment
SMME       Small Medium Micro-Enterprises
SOB        Sate of Biodiversity
SOEs       Statement of expenses
SRCC       Sundays River Citrus Company
STAP       Scientific and Advisory Panel
STEP       Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem Planning
UNCCD      United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
WFW        Work for Water




                        Vice President:   Obiageli Ezekwesili
                      Country Director:   Ruth Kagia
                       Sector Manager:    Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
                  Project Team Leader:    Jean-Michel Pavy
                     ICR Team Leader:     Claudia Sobrevila
                                 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
                          The Greater Addo Elephant National Park Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................................ 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 16
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 35
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 36
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            THE GREATER
                                                                            ADDO ELEPHANT
Country:                South Africa              Project Name:
                                                                            NATIONAL PARK
                                                                            PROJECT
Project ID:             P064438                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53110
ICR Date:               04/28/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            SOUTH AFRICA
Original Total
                        USD 5.5M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.3M
Environmental Category: B                         Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 South Africa National Parks
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/04/2002       Effectiveness:             04/30/2004           06/28/2004
Appraisal:            07/21/2003       Restructuring(s):
Approval:             02/24/2004       Mid-term Review:           04/30/2007           05/21/2007
                                       Closing:                   04/30/2010           10/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                             Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                          Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                          Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                    6                    13
Central government administration                                      25                   20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       60                   45
General education sector                                               4                    10
Other social services                                                  5                    12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                           29                   40
Environmental policies and institutions                                14                   12
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             14                   10
Rural non-farm income generation                                       29                   18
Social risk mitigation                                                 14                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ruth Kagia                            Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager:            Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough           Richard G. Scobey
Project Team Leader:       Jean-Michel G. Pavy                   Christopher James Warner
ICR Team Leader:           Claudia Sobrevila
ICR Primary Author:




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The global development objective (GEO) was to conserve a significant representation of
five of the country's seven terrestrial biomes (63% of the Addo larger area), including
globally important biodiversity (236,000 ha) and 120,000 ha of one of the country three
marine provinces into a single National Park. The project development objective (PDO)
was to establish a megabiodiversity conservation area around the existing Addo Elephant
National Park (AENP) to avert further ecosystem degradation and to contribute to
poverty reduction by creating direct employment in nature conservation and by
catalyzing the development of eco-tourism.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
There were no revisions

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                   approval            Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)           Values         Target Years
                   236,000 ha of globally significant terrestrial biodiversity protected and Formal
Indicator 1 :      proclamation of contiguous 120,000 ha of marine protected area (including two
                   islands).
                                                                                   170,115 ha for
                                                                   205,000 ha for
                                                                                   terrestrial
                                              236,000 ha for       terrestrial
Value                                                                              7,414 ha for marine
                   141,000 ha for terrestrial terrestrial          revised on
(quantitative or                                                                   declared
                   0 for marine               120,000 ha for       Sept 2007
Qualitative)                                                                       120,000 ha for
                                              marine               not revised for
                                                                                   marine submitted
                                                                   marine
                                                                                   for approval
Date achieved      06/02/2004                 06/02/2004           09/25/2007      10/30/2010
Comments           83% achieved for terrestrial. Bird Island and St. Croix were declared for marine.
(incl. %           The proclamation of the greater Addo marine protected area is awaiting final
achievement)       approval
                   46,000 ha of private land (nature-based conservation partnerships) included into
Indicator 2 :
                   the Park by year 6.
                                                                                   17,608 ha
                                                                                   incorporated
                                                                                   through private
Value                                                              30,000 ha
                                                                                   partnership
(quantitative or   1,500 ha                   46,000 ha            revised on
                                                                                   11,000 ha awaiting
Qualitative)                                                       Sept 2007
                                                                                   final incorporation
                                                                                   by Enon Bershiba
                                                                                   communities trust
Date achieved      06/02/2004                 06/02/2004           04/30/2010      10/30/2010
Comments           59% achieved. Howerever 100% achievement with private sector - 11,000 ha of



                                                   iii
(incl. %         community land are awaiting for final approval as land titling issues were more
achievement)     complicated than expected.
                 A monitoring and evaluation system implemented to determine improvements in
Indicator 3 :
                 ecosystem health, safeguarding of endemism and recovery.
Value                                       Presence of
(quantitative or Lack of M&E system         operating M&E                     Fully achieved
Qualitative)                                system
Date achieved 06/02/2004                    06/02/2004                        10/30/2010
Comments         100% achieved. A management information system (MIRS) was developed with
(incl. %         an environmental and financial component. The environment component (SOB)
achievement) was tested in AENP and now is used to 22 other parks.
                 Improvement in socio-economic status of community measured by employment
Indicator 4 :
                 levels in the gAENP that would have increased by 30 %.
Value
                 1,228 persons employed
(quantitative or                            1,596                             1,842
                 by gAENP
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/02/2004                    06/02/2004                        10/30/2010
Comments         115% achieved. Higher than expected. SANParks established an investment
(incl. %         confidence environment to attract private sector investments, employment and
achievement) business acumen.
                 Capable gAENP staff and management systems to effectively manage the Park,
Indicator 5 :
                 by the end of the project.
                                            350 training days                 514 training days
Value            no training                per year                          per year delivered
(quantitative or no learmership and         30 learnerships                   32 learmership and
Qualitative)     intership program          and interships                    internships
                                            delivered                         delivered
Date achieved 06/02/2004                    06/02/2004                        10/30/2010
Comments
                 150% achieved for training days.
(incl. %
                 106% achieved for learnerships and internships.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Degree of establishment of 4 plans.
Value
(quantitative or   0                        20                                  20
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/02/2000               06/02/2004                          10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Ha of the AENP where wildlife is contained within a fence.



                                                 iv
Value
(quantitative or   13,681                   130,000                             133,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/02/2004               06/02/2004                          10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           102% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Ha successfully cleared of alien species within the GAENP.
Value
(quantitative or   8,426                    65,000                              75,044
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/02/2004               06/02/2004                          10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           115% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      SANParks AENP structures fully operational.
Value                                     The APF, SC,
                                                                                All three structures
(quantitative or   0                      RWG fully
                                                                                operational
Qualitative)                              operational
Date achieved      06/02/2004             06/02/2004                            10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved
achievement)
                   Number of formal SMME of more than 3 permanent employees and two years
Indicator 5 :
                   existence created.
Value
(quantitative or   0                        10                                  11
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/02/2004               06/02/2004                          10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           110% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Environmental education infrastructure and program complete.
Value                                                                        Construction
(quantitative or   0                        Visitor center built             finalized and
Qualitative)                                                                 operational
Date achieved      06/02/2004               06/02/2004                       10/30/2010
Comments
                   100% achieved. In addition, average of 12,806 students from primary and
(incl. %
                   secondary levels visit the center per year.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Number of signed partnership agreements.
Value
                                            3 Signed                            3 Signed
(quantitative or   0
                                            partnerships                        partnerships
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/02/2004               06/02/2004                          10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved
achievement)


                                                 v
                Number of commercial concessions operational in the park resulting in tourism
Indicator 8 :
                infrastructure.
Value
                                         6 commercial                         6 commercial
(quantitative or 0
                                         concessions                          concessions signed.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/02/2004                 04/30/2010                           10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %         100% achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              GEO                          IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     05/06/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     10/28/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.10
  3     06/29/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.53
  4     12/29/2005          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.75
  5     06/28/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.33
  6     12/17/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.91
  7     06/25/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.21
  8     09/12/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.34
  9     05/28/2008       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      3.61
 10     11/30/2008       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      4.00
 11     05/24/2009       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      4.19
 12     11/28/2009       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      4.46
 13     06/04/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      4.76


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
viii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Addo Elephant National Park (AENP), situated in the Eastern Cape Province, along the
eastern seaboard of South Africa (SA) was established in 1931 and at the time of appraisal
covered approximately 141,000 ha. The Government of South Africa had identified that the
conservation of natural resources is a cornerstone of the economy, particularly nature-based
tourism. South African National Parks (SANParks) who is charged with managing the country’s
system of national parks had identified, with the participation of local stakeholders, the need to
expand the AENP into a larger conservation area which would allow sufficient boundary
expansion to sustain the growing population of elephants, as well as re-introduction of key big
species and ecosystem management. This larger footprint around the AENP is the project area
and is referred as the greater Addo Elephant National Park area (gAENP). It covers around
400,000 ha and includes the AENP in its core part. The gAENP forms a major transition zone
between four of the subcontinent's five major vegetation zones or phytochoria: the Cape,
Afromontane, Karoo-Namib, Tongal and-Pondoland and is also the convergence of five (Nama,
Karoo, Fynbos, Grasslands, Forests and Thicket) of the nine recognized biomes in the country.
In addition to the terrestrial ecosystems, the gAENP includes the Algoa Bay and two island
groups (Bird Island and St. Croix) that contain rich marine ecosystems and 10% of South Africa’s
population of humpback dolphins. The aim of the project was to increase the area under
conservation of the existing AENP by expanding its limits to encompass the greater Addo
Elephant National Park area (gAENP), including both terrestrial and marine ecosystems.

At appraisal, the Eastern Cape Province had a population of 6.4 million people out of a national
total of 43 million compared to 6.6 million people in 2010. Some 57% of households lived in
poverty (compared to 51% in 2010), and the province has an unemployment rate of 33%
(compared to 25.8% in 2010). The province relies largely on agriculture, manufacturing and
industry, with tourism becoming more important in many rural areas. The general decline in
traditional agriculture and greater demand for wildlife has contributed to the proliferation in the
number of game and hunting ranches to the extent that, at the time of appraisal, there were over
400 of these in the Province. Eco-tourism, particularly nature based tourism, is therefore
regarded as a clear area for growth by the Government of South Africa, particularly as recent
studies have shown that this can be considered to be ecologically, economically and socially more
sustainable than pastoralism.

The AENP alone attracted 94,699 tourists in 2004 compared to 135,109 in 2010. The number of
tourists to the Park has been increasing at a steady rate of 8% per annum since 1991 when only
51,000 tourists visited the Park. But of particular importance in this number is that over 50% of
the tourists are from foreign countries, mainly Germany, Holland and the United Kingdom. This
high proportion of foreigners, almost twice that of those visiting the Kruger National Park, is
important from the standpoints both of earning foreign currency and job creation. In 2001, the
AENP’s total accommodation capacity of 140 beds was running at average hut and bed
occupancy rates of 97% and 67%, respectively, and the Park was employing a total of 39 persons
in tourism-related activities. By project closure, there were 505 beds available and the number of
direct employment by AENP was 644.

The project was designed to combine the needs to improve biodiversity and ecosystem
conservation in the gAENP with those to increase economic development through nature-based




                                                1
tourism and contribute to poverty alleviation. The project foresaw that Government assistance for
poverty alleviation through the Working for Water and Poverty Relief program1 would be made
available through a number of activities associated directly with infrastructure creation and
maintenance within and around the park.

The primary rationales for the Bank’s assistance were: (a) to assist the Government of South
Africa to bring viable representative samples of seven of the nine biomes of SA into conservation
and generate unique national and global benefits; (b) to contribute to two of the CAS
development objectives by: i) sustaining improvements in living standards, especially among the
poorest groups in society in the project area, through employment in direct work programs and
increased private sector eco-tourism activities; and ii) strengthening sustainable conservation and
integrated ecosystem management through investments in human and natural capital, institutional
strengthening, and park business development, and implementing a replicable model of
community-supported, protected area management; and (c) to develop a management model
which maximizes the socio-economic advantages of the protected area through nature-based
tourism without compromising the globally valuable biodiversity.

The project was consistent with the objectives and priorities of the GEF Operational Strategy and
Operational Programs for OP 1, Arid and Semi-Arid Zone Ecosystems, and OP 2, Coastal Marine
and Freshwater Ecosystems. Linkages with OP 1 and 2 are through: conservation and sustainable
use of biodiversity; monitoring of outcomes using key indicators; investing in technical and
capacity building activities; focusing on critical habitats and integrating biodiversity protection
with sustainable rural development; following best practice and ensuring local participation in
planning and implementation.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The global development objective (GEO) was to conserve a significant representation of five of
the country’s seven terrestrial biomes (63% of the Addo footprint2) including globally important
biodiversity (236,000 ha) and 120,000 ha of one of the country’s three marine provinces in a
single National Park. The project development objectives (PDOs) were (a) to establish a
megabiodiversity conservation area around the existing Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) to
avert further ecosystem degradation and (b) to contribute to poverty reduction by creating direct
employment in nature conservation and by catalyzing the development of eco-tourism. The key
indicators were different between the PAD and the Grant Agreement. For purposes of the ICR
the indicators listed in the Grant Agreement are used3.

    1. 236,000 ha of globally significant terrestrial biodiversity and 120,000 ha of marine
       protected areas clustered around the AENP brought under protected area management;




1
  The Working for Water and Poverty Relief Program are targeting poorer provinces by providing
investment to eco-tourism infrastructure and the employment of local communities in public works
programs.
2
  The Addo footprint is the same as the greater Addo Elephant National Park area (GAENP).
3
  For example, the PAD two indicators that are not in the legal agreement, namely, that globally significant
biodiversity is maintained and enhanced through the protection of five key biomes under 63% of the
gAENP footprint and that the formal proclamation of a contiguous Addo Marine Protected Area (MPA),
inclusive of the two island groups is passed. On the other hand, the legal agreement lists one indicator that
is not in the PAD, namely capable gAENP staff and management systems to effectively manage the Park
are in place by end of project.


                                                      2
    2. An additional 46,000 ha of private land (nature-based conservation partnerships)
       incorporated by year 6;
    3. A monitoring and evaluation system implemented to determine improvements in
       ecosystem health, safeguarding of endemism and recovery of threatened species
       (monitored according to the Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation of GEF Projects);
    4. Employment levels in the gAENP area increased by 30% over the current baseline;
    5. Capable AENP staff and management systems to effectively manage the Park, by the end
       of the project.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO, GEO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project was designed to target several beneficiaries. Local unemployed people and local
communities surrounding the gAENP would be targeted through employment and entrepreneurial
opportunities that would materialize from the Working for Water and Poverty Relief funding as
well as more stable forms of employment associated with Park expansion and development of
eco-tourism. In addition, the identification and creation of Small and Medium Micro-Enterprises
(SMMEs) would be encouraged for the local unemployed people and training would be delivered
through the project including in the areas of basic environmental and cultural management,
natural resource use enterprises (arts and crafts), alien vegetation removal, basic business and
financial management, basic adult education, and HIV/AIDS awareness.

SANParks would benefit from technical and financial support, capacity building, institutional
development and assistance relating to policy and management reform. NGOs and other key
stakeholders, including farm workers, would be consulted and play a more specific role in
formalized Park entities such as the Addo Planning Forum (APF). Environmental education
programs would aim to strengthen student awareness and knowledge about environment, ecology
and natural resources management in the area surrounding the Park. The PAD also identified the
landowners surrounding the Park as a beneficiary group. Land-owners would be specifically
targeted to form partnerships to shift underutilized farmland into sustainable conservation, ensure
better retention of labor, rehabilitation of land and the development of minor infrastructure.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Conservation Planning: The component’s objectives were: (a) to develop a
planning and monitoring framework for the long-term conservation of the unique assemblage of
biodiversity in the gAENP and (b) to avoid environmental degradation. The component would
provide funding for updated biological surveys and a conservation plan, a strategic (development)
plan, an updated park management plan, and the development of a monitoring and research
system to support the expansion and operation of the Park.

Component 2: Implementation of the Development Plan: The component’s objective was: to
implement the infrastructure and land incorporation programs as well as the socio-economic
capacity building defined in the gAENP development plan. The component would provide
funding for park infrastructure and equipment in the terrestrial and marine ecosystems as well as
for land purchases and contracting arrangements to expand the Park’s boundaries.

Component 3: Institution & Governance Structures: The component’s objective was to
strengthen the institutional and governance structures to ensure the successful implementation of



                                                3
the gAENP. This component would include the design, implementation and maintenance of an
Integrated Environmental Management System (IEMS) and would strengthen governance entities
such as the Park’s Steering Committee (SC), the Addo Planning Forum (APF) and the Project
Management Unit (PMU).

Component 4: Community Development & Social Ecology: The component’s objective was: to
benefit communities through enabling managed access to natural resources, access to
employment, microenterprise opportunities (SMME), training and environmental education. In
addition, socio-economic monitoring of the impact of the project within a 50 km radius would be
carried out.

Component 5: Economic Development: The component’s objective was: to stimulate overall
economic development in the region by creating an enabling environment for tourism and
associated economic activity through participation of the private sector. The component funded
the development of concessionary and contractual programs, as well as developing a tourism,
marketing and product awareness plan. SANParks would leverage private sector investment in
the Park via concessions.

1.6 Revised Components
Project components remained unchanged during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project had three formal amendments of the Grant Agreement: (a) in June 2004, to allow the
Special Account to be denominated in South Africa Rand; (b) in September 2007 to change the
target numbers of the key indicators referred in paragraph 1.6 above and a reallocation of grant
proceeds among the different categories; and (c) in October 2009 to extend the original project
closing date for six months from April 30, 2010 to October 30, 2010. The rationale for the
extension was that the Government needed additional time to complete the crucial public
participation process and Marine Protected Area (MPA) related research projects.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project preparation lasted two years. Shortly after effectiveness, in July 2005, the Quality
Assurance Group at the Bank (QAG) carried out a Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA). The
QEA rated overall preparation as satisfactory, technical, financial and economic aspects as highly
satisfactory while social, poverty and gender aspects and risk assessment were rated moderately
satisfactory. All other quality dimensions were rated satisfactory. The ICR largely concurs with
the conclusions of the QEA.

Project design benefitted from targeted studies financed under a Strategic Environment
Assessment (SEA) that demonstrated very solid knowledge of the South African socio-economic
and biological situation and served to envision a coherent package of plans that were relatively
well anchored in the expectations of the Eastern Cape communities. Also, a public participation
exercise was carried out during preparation that enabled data collection for the write up of
safeguard documents including the Resettlement Policy Framework. The QEA recognized
adequate use of lessons learned by building on the GEF Cape Peninsula Biodiversity project and
other South African experiences with the conversion of dryland farming areas to game reserves
and removal of invasive alien species. Preparation included a solid and well researched socio-
economic assessment of the Eastern Cape communities and of the gAENP border communities.



                                                4
A wealth of useful and relevant information was provided for the project’s baseline data through
the SEA and various plans were prepared before appraisal.

The design of the project components and activities was well aligned with its objectives. The
number and types of components were fully consistent with the standard organization of
components in most protected area projects. While all indicators were relevant, not all were
clearly defined or quantified. The project team had to refine or re-word some of the indicators
while respecting the scope set by the project designers. An example of an indicator which was
adjusted is “formal proclamation of the marine protected area”. This indicator was to be
measured by a yes/no score and duplicated another outcome indicator, “120,000 ha of marine
protected area established,” which already captured the establishment of a new protected area
(and its size). It was replaced by “degree of establishment of the marine protected area.

The project was entrusted to the Scientific Services of SANParks within the Department of
Environmental Affairs. This arrangement proved adequate. SANParks is a solid institution with
a long history of conservation. It underwent various reforms before and during the project to (a)
increase its goal of biodiversity conservation through expansion of the protected area network and
(b) improve its business practices by leveraging external resources and streamlining its
management. Because the project supported both goals, it easily fitted in this evolving
institutional model and received generous support from the institution in terms of financing and
commitment to outcomes.

SANParks generally entrusts the management of projects to a dedicated contractual team or
Project Management Unit (PMU). This included the management of “poverty relief” projects and
was the model adopted by this project. Although this approach runs counter to the objective of
the Paris Declaration, whereby all projects are supposed to phase out PMUs, SANParks argued
that its regular staff was already fully committed and that it could not reallocate staff each time a
project was leveraged. In addition, SANParks did not possess experts knowledgeable with World
Bank procedures which were different than its internal procedures. As a consequence, it was
more practical and effective to recruit a team while ensuring very close supervision by this
dedicated team of activities and accountability for results and outcomes throughout the project.

The risk analysis and mitigation plan contained in the PAD had shortcomings as identified by the
QEA. The main concern of the panel related to the need to treat in more depth the risks
inevitably associated with land acquisition and the purchase of failing farms given the ownership
of these farms. At MTR, the risk analysis was updated but did not propose major changes; the
initial risk rating was “Moderate” and remained the same after the MTR and until Project end.

2.2 Implementation
The project was signed on March 30, 2004 and officially commenced on July 1, 2004. A launch
workshop was held on July 14 and 15, 2004 to develop the detailed implementation plan and
reporting requirements. The annual financial cycle conformed with SANParks’ financial year
from April to March. The project implementation plan (PIP) was reviewed at the end of each
financial year, and revised for the remainder of the project. The last annual report for the project
was sent by SANParks to the Bank on March 31, 2010 and the closing report was submitted on
October 30, 2010. The project was initially of a six year duration, ending on 31 March 2010, and,
following a request in 2009, a six month extension was granted with a revised closing date being
31 October 2010.

Implementation of the gAENP project was administered by the Project Management Unit (PMU)
comprising a Manager, Procurement Manager, and Financial Officer. The project was overseen


                                                 5
by a Steering Committee (SC) composed by the SANParks’ AENP Park Manager, SANParks
Conservation Services Park Planning & Development Unit and the PMU Manager. One positive
factor during implementation was the regularity of meetings of key players with corresponding
minutes that clearly indicated the actions to be taken. The Addo Planning Forum (APF) met
twice a year to discuss project implementation involving a wider range of stakeholders.

Government commitment was remarkable and steady. At project completion, the government
had increased the coverage of the AENP from 141,000 ha to 170,115 ha for the terrestrial
component and from no marine protection to 7,414 ha for the marine component. Various marine
research projects were funded and a study on the legal framework for the marine protected area
declaration and management was completed. In addition, SANParks started to market the marine
component which no doubt contributed to nature-based tourism growth. The purchased areas
were readily gazetted and private land contractual agreements were rapidly drafted and signed.

The project delivered 154 km of all season new roads in the Main camp and Colchester zones that
have already aided wildlife management and tourism development. The construction, furbishing
and launching of an impressive Interpretative Center in the Main Camp of the AENP has been
concluded. The design, construction, and the interpretive materials on display used for
environmental education programs are of high quality. The project also purchased a bus to bring
school students to the Center. From March 2009 to March 2010, 12,806 students visited the Main
Camp. The removal of alien species under the project in an area with two mountain catchments
resulted in increased ecological services through improved water resources down the river
systems. General rehabilitation activities of old farming areas resulted in improvements of
aesthetic values in the region but also reduced the potential risk of injury to important wildlife
such as the black rhinos. Contractual agreements were signed for three privately owned areas,
Kuzuko, Riverbend and Langvlakte, resulting in a larger area being consolidated, thus improving
the protection of Thicket and Forest-Grassland Biome elements and enhancing ecological
processes - all helping to improve the Park’s ecological sustainability. In addition, these three
areas have either developed or are in the final stages of completing tourism activities to enhance
job creation and regional economic development.

Most remarkable was the substantial co-financing provided by Government programs such as
Work for Water and Poverty Relief (later referred to as Extended Poverty Relief Program)
programs which contributed several fold more funding than initially anticipated and enabled not
only stronger social results (e.g., in terms of SMME establishment) but also helped develop
additional park infrastructure such as roads and fences and contributed to additional eradication
of alien species than originally planned. Co-funding was provided from SANParks and the Work
for Water (WFW) Program. In addition, significant private sector contributions were provided,
namely in the Darlington and Colchester-Main-Nyathi section of the gAENP, to purchase land,
construct tourism lodges, infrastructure and fences (US$ 14.54 million). The Government’s final
commitment of US$ 53.89 million by the end of the project exceeded the originally committed
amount (US$ 34.44 million). The French GEF (FGEF) contributed US$1,290,000.

Overall, project implementation and supervision was pragmatic and forward-looking, adjusting
and adapting in response both to activities that were going well and to those that were taking
longer than initially expected. To adapt to evolving situations during project implementation,
SANParks proposed minor changes which maintained the relevance of activities and increased
their chances of delivering outcomes. One example is related to the component on land
acquisition in order to expand the park boundaries. During implementation, the increase in land
prices slowed down the Park’s expansion beyond the project’s control, so the project gave a
stronger emphasis to attracting private sector investments. Three large privately owned


                                                6
properties amounting to 17,600 ha were made available by private owners that were willing to
enter into contractual arrangements with SANParks. This project has demonstrated that bringing
the private sector into the park proved sound especially because of rising land prices.

Finally, progress towards a contractual agreement between the Enon Bersheba community and
SANParks for a 11,000 ha community contractual conservation agreement has been slow. The
major constraint was that this property, although assigned to the Enon Bersheba community, was
still registered under the Department of Land Affairs (DLA) as belonging to the Government of
South Africa. Until the official property title would be transferred to the community, the
community was not entitled to sign a formal agreement with SANParks, although the
consultations and negotiations had clearly indicated that the community wanted to move forward
with a conservation agreement with SANParks. SANParks had no control over this land
partnership agreement.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
During design and initial implementation no formal monitoring and evaluation assessment system
was in place as it was part of the implementation of component 1. Early during implementation,
a management information reporting system (MIRS) was developed with an environmental and
financial management component that proved very useful to monitor financial and environmental
progress of the project. The environmental MIRS developed by the Parks Planning &
Development section of SANParks included the state of biodiversity (SOB) management report.
The SOB was tested in Addo and later carried out in all twenty two National Parks (see Section
3.5 (c) other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts). Three years of assessments have been
completed & await final analysis.

The Mid-term Review (MTR) verified the need to modify the target numbers for two indicators –
terrestrial area under park management and area under private land. An increase in the purchase
price of land and the unwillingness of some owners to sell their lands required an adjustment to
some of the targets. Accordingly, the Bank and SANParks agreed to formally revise the indicator
targets as follows: the total terrestrial area under the national park management target would be
reduced from 236,000 ha to 205,000 ha and the total area of private land under contractual
arrangement would be reduced from 46,000 ha to 30,000 ha. An amendment to the Grant
Agreement was signed to reflect this change.

During project implementation, the Bank and SANParks refined the measurement of the GEO
and PDO with additional indicators. Certain indicators used more than one measurement. For
example to measure the status of biodiversity, four values were measured. (two marine species,
black rhino and vegetation thicket). A total of 12 outcome indicators and 22 output indicators
were measured regularly to assess progress under each component. This was part of the
development of the MIRS system under component 1 (Annex 2)

GEF Management Effectiveness Tracking Tools: SANParks also used the protected area
Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (METT), originally designed by the Bank and WWF
early on during project implementation. The METT was designed to assess performance at the
site-level against 30 criteria for protected area management effectiveness identified by the World
Commission on Protected Areas. Separate assessments were carried out for the terrestrial and the
marine protected areas. Two of the 12 outcome indicators measured the terrestrial and marine
protected areas management effectiveness. The METT for the terrestrial component of the Park
has increased from a value of 73 to 76 by project closure (against an expected value of 75). The
METT for the marine protected area increased from a value of 31 to 50 by project closure
(against an expected value of 60). The fact that the METT for the marine protected area


                                                7
increased from 31 to 50 points shows a de facto improvement in the management of the marine
protected area. The de juro measurement of the outcome indicator was that the area would be
proclaimed and thus the final point system could not reach the target value of 60.

Biological Monitoring: The PAD included an indicator to assess the improvement in the
biodiversity of the gAENP: “Globally significant biodiversity maintained and enhanced through
the protection of five key biomes under 63% of the gAENP footprint”. In order to adequately
measure this indicator, SANParks and the Bank agreed early on to select a few species and
vegetation types facing the highest degree of threat (black rhinos, fish species and thicket bush
clump size) as follows: (a) the black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis bicornis) population within the
park continues to increase. The population has grown from 41 in 2004 to 48 in 2006 to 51 in
2007, to 57 in 2008, to 62 in 2009, and to 67 in 2010. (b) Marine key species indicators have
been identified through the research projects. Two fish species have been identified for
monitoring activities: i) an indicator species for Rocky Substrate, the Red Roman (Chrysoblephus
laticeps) - a reef dwelling fish caught around Bird Island only, and highly resident with a home
range as little as 50 m2. Chrysoblephus laticeps is a generalist feeder on reef invertebrates and a
popular offshore angling fish; and ii) an indicator species for soft substrate, the White Seacatfish
(Galeichthys felicepts), which is caught around the St Croix Island only. Galeichthys felicepts is
an endemic species that lives on sandy bottoms and makes use of estuaries to spawn and mouth
breed (September-December). Galeichthys felicepts is commercially exploited in the Eastern
Cape. For both species, the numbers remained the same between the baseline value and the end
of project value. (c) The thicket bush clump size was measured in a representative sample of
plots from inside and outside elephants’ exclosures that had been set several years prior to the
project. The value did not show any significant changes from the baseline to the end of the
project. All the measurements except for the black rhinoceros were highly ambitious and given
the long-term biological processes and the short time frame of the project interventions, it is not
surprising that the indicators chosen show only limited responses over the project time frame.
This is typical of other GEF projects where biological monitoring has been a challenge.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The project triggered three safeguard policies, Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Physical
Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11, at the time of appraisal Cultural Property, OPN 11.3) and
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The project was classified as a Category B. However,
as the nature of the project was to enhance environmental quality and protect natural habitats and
cultural heritage in the project area, the entire project was expected to have a supportive and
significant positive effect in all of these areas. OP 4.11 requirements, South African legislation
and SANParks’ own heritage policies led to the development of a specific Cultural Resource
Framework (CRF) for the project. The CRF, developed in 2003, included a detailed cultural
resource inventory. The project has also completed a cultural heritage resource mapping exercise,
with management plans developed for each site, and AENP staff was trained to implement the
plans, and compile plans for new sites.

The mapping exercise has resulted in an Integrated Cultural Resource Management Plan for the
Park, with all relevant sites within the existing land area identified. The outputs of the plan are
incorporated into SANParks’ balanced scorecard management assessment tool. Cultural resource
management targets have been built into the park personnel’s key performance areas (KPAs).
This has been followed up with the implementation of a training program which enables staff to
identify cultural heritage sites and to develop site-specific management plans for these. This
capacity is overarching and has been provided to both the Conservation and People and
Conservation Divisions. The mapped cultural GIS layer has been incorporated into the Park’s



                                                 8
conservation development framework (CDF) to assist management decision making processes. A
database of all sites has also been developed.

The project completed a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) during project preparation and
subsequently developed a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) to ensure that the affected people
were adequately re-housed. To monitor application of the resettlement safeguard a Resettlement
Working Group (RWG) was established, and met on a quarterly basis. Minutes of these meetings
are available. Under SANParks’ budgetary provision, the project had set aside sufficient
financial resources to cover all costs anticipated in the RAP. The RAP and its socio-economic
program were prepared to resettle 29 households or Project Affected Persons (PAP) in two
surrounding municipalities (Sundays River Valley and Blue Crane) and to help the displaced
individuals to recover their overall livelihoods. The Bank was responsible for approving the RAP.
The last independent RAP audit, ordered early in 2010 to evaluate implementation progress,
concluded that SANParks has met its obligations to the 29 PAP. The last social safeguards
supervision mission, carried out in May 2010, concurred with the conclusions and
recommendations of the independent audit.

Access to municipal housing and recovery of income losses of all affected households were
carried out in the following way. A group of 11 households were moved to municipal houses,
another group of 10 households were moved to houses provided by SANParks and a last group of
8 households have not been moved. The Bank social safeguard specialist visited the new houses
and was satisfied with these arrangements as all the affected households were in better housing
conditions than before the move. Regarding the 8 households that had not moved, the Bank
social safeguard specialist visited the municipal government and was provided with the Council
resolution letter showing that all the PAPs are officially on the Reconstruction and Development
Program (RDF) list and will be provided their houses on a priority basis. Houses will be built on
these plots on commencement of the next housing projects in each municipality. One RAP
individual is not on the (RDP) housing list for Blue Crane Municipality and has chosen not to
respond to assistance offers by RDP.       Related to potential income losses resulting from the
resettlement, SANParks has provided to all the affected people either jobs in the Park’s various
management programs or provided assistance through the grant program of the Small Medium
Micro-Enterprises financed by the project.

Early in the first year appropriate financial planning based on COSTAB was carried out and
allowed proper reporting of the use of funds against the designed activities and costs possible
throughout the rest of project implementation. Budget planning and reporting were done with use
of a financial management information reporting system (MIRS) that allowed an integration
between SANParks’ financial system and World Bank report requirements. The client complied
with the financial reporting requirements and sent to the Bank on a regular basis, the progress
reports, evaluation reports and annual financial reports. Regular audits were carried out
indicating that there were no cases of misuse of funds. The Bank financial review did not detect
any problems in this regard. Financial management is rated satisfactory.

The PMU experienced difficulties implementing the required procurement procedures during the
first two years. The PMU’s staff in charge of procurement lacked experience and did not get
sufficient training from the Bank procurement specialists who had frequently turned over. In year
two, challenges were identified and remedies were applied to correct these deficiencies. At the
end of year two a new procurement officer with World Bank experience was employed by the
PMU and further appropriately trained. Procurement performance improved significantly and




                                               9
subsequently procurement reviews identified no further issues. Procurement is rated satisfactory
given that it was properly remediated on a timely basis.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The project supported the clear long-term vision of SANParks to expand the area of the AENP
into a larger megadiverse area (the gAENP). It contributed to significant accomplishments in key
areas such as modernization of planning tools (i.e. adaptive management) and modification of
land uses in the gAENP to revert land degradation trends by piloting improved conservation
management, private sector development and community participation. All interventions were
also geared to contribute to poverty alleviation. Building on the successful implementation of
these activities, SANParks has committed to continue the work as follows:

(a) Complete implementation of the French GEF grant.
(b) Explore and prepare applications for GEF5 funding to expand the lessons learned from this
    to the larger Frontier/Garden Route cluster of parks from Port Elizabeth to Cape Town.
(c) Pursue the proposed MPA expansion and zoning. The research and planning for the whole
    marine area has been concluded. SANParks plans to carry out additional stakeholder
    consultations to ensure stronger engagement and political support toward the proclamation.
    In addition, the consultations would be key to increase awareness among local population of
    the value of no-take zones to increase productivity and to design in a participatory way these
    zones.
(d) Further develop incentivized partnerships in private and communal lands around the Garden
    Route, Coastal and Frontier national parks to expand compatible conservation activities into
    buffer zones around the parks and increase the national park estate through creative
    mechanisms. This would have the advantage of reducing hard boundaries to the parks,
    increasing public involvement and facilitating the involvement of previously disadvantaged
    communities in conservation partnerships.
(e) SANParks has plans to strengthen its work with communities around the gAENP through
    the provision of wildlife products such as marketing and species reintroduction and fences as
    an important incentive to change from agricultural to ecotourism activities for certain
    contractual areas such as the Enon Bersheba communal lands in gAENP.
(f) Further expand the sustainable land use of endangered ecosystems in the Frontier and
    Garden Route. GAENP showed how the benefits of nature based tourism can compete with
    agricultural land uses.
(g) SANParks plans to mainstream the idea that protected areas are providers of important
    ecosystem services to the broader society. These services could be in the form of water
    provision, increased water quality and flows, increased climate change resilience, reduced
    sedimentation and carbon sequestration, among others. These services are expected to
    increase in importance given the growing demand for fresh water and the likely adverse
    impacts of climate change on water availability in the country.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rated: Satisfactory
The project has made substantial contributions to the improved planning, monitoring and
implementation of a highly diversified protected area and strongly supported and capacitated
South Africa’s leading agency for protected areas. The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
mentions the Government’s priorities which include environmental sustainability, especially to




                                               10
turn the concept of environmental sustainability into a cross-cutting element of public policies
and assure that all public and private investments are compatible with environmental protection.

Both, the PDO and the GEO were highly relevant in terms of the environment and socio-
economic objectives of the CAS. The justification for both has been thoroughly researched and
demonstrated in the PAD. The proposed indicators, while needing refinement, were nonetheless
all relevant to measure the proposed outcomes. The number, type and design of components
were well aligned with the intended outcomes. The funded activities were also all relevant and
contributed to the project outcomes as verified during implementation. The project’s objectives
continued to be relevant for the actual Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) priorities for the
period 2008-2012 with regard to: (a) environment and natural resource management; (b)
eradication of poverty; (c) overcoming the legacy of the apartheid regime and the reduction of
inequality in South Africa and the region; and (d) increasing the capacity and efficiency for
public service delivery.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environment and Project Development Objectives
Rating: Overall Satisfactory
The project’s objectives were realistic and remained relevant throughout the project. The
project’s global environment objective (GEO) was to conserve a significant representation of five
of the country’s biomes and the project development objective (PDO) was to establish a
megabiodiversity conservation area around the existing Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) to
avert further ecosystem degradation and to contribute to poverty reduction by creating direct
employment in nature conservation and by catalyzing the development of eco-tourism. The
project helped: (a) expand the conservation area around the existing AENP; (b) improve the
management effectiveness of the AENP; and (c) contribute to poverty reduction by creating direct
employment and through nature based tourism.

Expand the conservation area around the existing AENP: SANParks’ long term vision that
AENP would be a single fenced area for wildlife significantly larger and encompassing terrestrial
and marine habitats compared to 2004 was largely achieved. At project completion, the
government had increased the coverage of the AENP to 170,115 ha for the terrestrial component
and 7,414 ha for the marine one. In addition, a request for 120,000 ha marine conservation area is
awaiting for final approval. The indicator used to measure this achievement indicated that it
reached 83% of its expected target.

The fact that the project did not reach 100% of its targeted expectation is not inherent to a poor
project performance but to reasons that were out of the project’s control. Two factors influenced
this results. First, the land purchase prices increased from between R 1,080 – R 1,315 per hectare
in 2003-2004 to R 7,000 - R 8,817 per hectare in 2010. SANParks had to change its strategy to
expand the park and this resulted in a positive aspect of the project which is the creative solutions
tested with partnership and concession agreements with the private sector. Second, the fact that
the marine protected area was not yet declared by project closure was mainly due to political and
institutional changes. The election of the new President of South Africa in 2007 resulted in the
split of the functions of the Marine Coastal Management (MCM) between two national s –
Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) & the Department of Agriculture, Forestry &
Fisheries (DAFF). This separation made it more difficult to obtain the approval of the legal
documents by each department in a short period of time. The Government will ensure that the
legislation is passed as this is a priority for DEA and SANParks beyond the life of the project.

Increase area of private land incorporated in the park: 46,000 ha of private land (revised
downward to 30,000 ha at MTR) were to be incorporated into the Park by year 6. By project end,


                                                 11
this indicator showed that 17,608 ha, or 59%, of the revised target were incorporated. The 11,000
ha still awaiting final incorporation by the Enon Bershiba Communities Trust, a registered
organization, were out of the control of SANParks, as the Government had not provided the land
title to the communities that were willing to engage with SANParks on a contractual inclusion,
but could not do so until the final title transfer took place.

Improve management effectiveness of AENP: By the end of the project the management of the
gAENP had improved. All the management plans (Conservation plan, Development plan, Park
Management plan and MPA low level plan) had been completed. SANParks had operationalized
the MIRS system and the research projects had been concluded. 133,000 ha of the park were
connected without fences allowing the flagship elephants & black rhinos to move freely to some
of the new purchased areas. The baseline value for the area to be connected without fences was
13,681 ha and the target value was 130,000 ha. Also, SANParks was able to clear 75,044 ha of
alien species (baseline 8,426 ha and target value 65,000 ha). Alien removal was done in two
mountain catchments increasing ecological services in the form of better water resources down
the river systems. General rehabilitation funded activities of old farming areas has seen an
improvement in general aesthetic values of the region but also reduced potential risks of injury to
important wildlife such as black rhinos.

In addition, the GEF tracking tool (METTS) score for the terrestrial area of the gAENP had
increased its score from 73 to 76 showing that the park’s management had improved. The
METTS score for the marine area was 31 at the baseline and increased to 50 at the end of the
project indicating that protection of the marine ecosystems was strengthened and also reflecting
the many actions taken to improve management of these ecosystems. The value of the METTS
had a target of 60 at the end of the project. Only a value of 50 could be achieved, as the
proclamation of the Park was not finalized by project closing. In other words, SANParks
successfully completed all the required prior procedures (surveys, studies, management plan,
consultation and drafting of the legislation) under its own control, but the final proclamation was
not its direct responsibility.

Capable AENP staff and management systems in place: The number of capable gAENP staff and
management systems to effectively manage the Park was measured by the number of training
days per year which reached 514 training days per year at the end of the project while 32
learnership and internships programs were also provided completed.

Contribute to poverty reduction by creating direct employment and through nature based
tourism: The improvement in socio-economic status of the surrounding communities measured
by employment levels in the gAENP, which were anticipated at appraisal to increase by 30 % as a
result of the project, showed that 1,842 persons were employed at the end of the project as
compared with the 1,596 originally expected, thus surpassing the target. Also, SANParks was
able to attract private sector investment. The private sector contributed US$ 14.54 million
towards land purchase and to build lodges which was not expected at appraisal. The project
delivered 505 beds that were made available within the AENP compared to a baseline value of
174 beds and the number of tourist entries increased significantly from 94,699 in 2004 to 135,109
in 2010 showing that nature based tourism had increased and was generating significant revenues
at the end of the project.

3.3 Efficiency
At the time of appraisal there were no requirements to include calculations of economic and
financial rates of returns. The project was a stand-alone GEF project with a GEF grant and
counterpart funding from the Government of the Republic of South Africa. No standard cost


                                                12
benefit or cost-effectiveness parameters were calculated, and would be extremely difficult to
calculate ex-post.

Despite these hindrances, efficiency is assessed by: (a) assessing the ratio of revenue to costs to
manage the AENP and (b) the contribution of the private sector participation to a more efficient
achievement of project results.

Ratio of revenue to costs to manage AENP: The ratio of revenue to costs to manage the Addo
Elephant National Park was measured during project implementation. The expectation for this
measure was that the income to cost ratios would be 100% or higher by project end, showing that
the park management is self-sustainable. The ratio of revenue to costs by AENP was 94.6 percent
at project entry and in 2009/10 reached 132 percent. It therefore can be concluded that the project
contributed to the park being managed more efficiently exceeding original expectation. The
gAENP is one of only few Parks in South Africa that is covering its operating costs through its
own revenues.

Contribution of private sector: The effective private sector participation was a key feature that
made this project more efficient and also gave SANParks new experience to work closely with
the private sector as a key conservation partner. The gAENP project played a major role in this
regard. SANParks had developed a long-term vision that was shaped in a series of plans for the
greater Addo Elephant Park. The reason for mapping out the wider area was to increase
ecological connectivity of previously isolated areas, as well as to increase ecosystem
representation in an efficient way and that would secure additional biodiversity for the greater
Addo Elephant Park. This large plan in hand (called the Development plan of the footprint area)
incorporated all the additional areas to support biodiversity conservation on a priority basis. This
clear vision back-up with impressive science was able to attract new partners from the business
sector. Business partners worked within those areas. Without that prioritization the project
would not have been as efficient to incorporate the best additional sites by private sector that
might have purchased land with low ecological and biological value for the expansion of the
AENP. Three contractual agreements were signed. Under these agreements the private
companies purchased new land adjacent to the park in some cases and agreed to put them under
conservation use for 99 years. The purchase of land by private companies proved a more cost-
effective strategy than for the governments to purchase land which would be more costly.
Furthermore, the project attracted private companies that are running ecotourism lodges for
higher-end tourism which was a new market that did not exist previously in and around AENP.
Prior to the project, accommodation near AENP was largely geared towards a lower-priced
tourism segment. Through these efforts, the gAENP project provided a good example that is now
being followed in other South African parks.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The project has largely achieved its objectives and succeeded in increasing the conservation area
of the Addo Elephant National Park. The project was successful in leveraging co-funding from
SANParks, the Working for Water (WFW) and Extended Public Works Programs. Some of these
funds were key to ensure that the consolidation of areas needed to expand the boundaries of the
AENP would be done through acquisitions and contractual inclusions, with the other programs
providing ideal bridging funds for local communities. These areas have been largely fenced and
increased staffing and game introductions have been implemented. Alien species removal in an
area with two mountain catchments resulted in increased ecological services in the form of
improved water resources down the river systems. General rehabilitation funded activities of old
farming areas resulted in improvements of aesthetic values in the region but also reduced the


                                                13
potential risks of injury to important wildlife such as black rhinos. Contractual inclusion of
Kuzuko, Riverbend and Langvlakte areas resulted in further consolidation of the conservation
areas, thus improving the protection of Thicket and Forest-Grassland Biome elements and
enhancing ecological processes, all helping to improve the Park’s ecological sustainability. In
addition, these three areas have developed tourism activities to enhance job creation and regional
economic development. Current negotiations around the possible inclusion of the communal
Enon Bersheba land (preliminary investigations and discussions have commenced) would further
increase the Thicket protection and ecological processes on the southern Zuurberg slopes. The
proclamation of the Bird Island MPA has given the important marine area greater local and
national focus. In addition, project funds contributed to enhancing access to the islands and
supported their protection and development even though the MPA has not yet been formally
declared.

Over and above this, the gAENP project has played an essential role in influencing both
SANParks and the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) with respect to the important
potential links between conservation and socio-economic development, by demonstrating a viable
alternative form of land use to agriculture. The gAENP project is frequently used as an example
as to how conservation can be a regional economic engine, in the process contributing to poverty
alleviation. The GIS office established within the Park Planning section of SANParks, which
initially largely serviced the gAENP project, has since expanded to serve the entire organization.
Moreover it has become a recognized national park planning unit involved in numerous national
and international projects.

The Addo Elephant National Park is one of the few national parks in South Africa which now
makes profit. The concept of bringing the private sector into the park proved sound especially
because of rising land prices. The linkage between pro-poor job creation, investment from
private sector and biodiversity conservation is generally a success story in South Africa, but also
well demonstrated by this project. The number of jobs linking into biodiversity restoration
exceeded expectations (1,842) as did government funding and alien vegetation clearing. This
linkage has a great impact on supporting buy in for the park among poorer adjoining communities.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project was not designed as a targeted poverty alleviation project. However, it was designed
to enable local communities to benefit both from direct job creation and through SMME projects.
The project created 1,842 external jobs compared with a target of 1,596 jobs. This represents a
103% increase over the baseline of 909 jobs. With regard to internal jobs created (within the
AENP administration), employment has increased by 409 % (540 actual jobs vs. 106 jobs at
project start).

SANParks actively engages with a number of stakeholder groups to support community
development with a view toward increasing educational and training activities and direct projects.
To name a few:
     the partnership with Pick ‘n Pay supermarkets’ Kids in Parks program whereby school
       students are exposed to environmental education programs in the park.
     The Wilderness Foundation’s sponsored Imbewu trails whereby disadvantaged high
       school students are taken on a wilderness trail in the Park and exposed to relationships
       between their culture and nature.
     The “Hop on Guides”, a group of park guides, are presently setting themselves up as a
       business entity and will employ additional guides.



                                               14
       All the Park’s EPW programs are aimed at skills development and the employment of
        unemployed people from neighboring communities.
       The Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust (MNDT) facilitated by the Park will unlock
        huge opportunities to benefit local people from around AENP such as the compost
        project and will serve as the catalyst for further community development projects.
       The SMME development process contributed to livelihood improvements and some
        established SMME’s are currently employed operationally within the Park, for fencing or
        alien species removal. This process is ongoing.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project’s governance entities, namely the Addo Planning Forum (APF), the Steering
Committee (SC) and the Resettlement Working Group (RWG), were fully operational during
project implementation. They met quarterly during the past five years. In addition, a national
Marine Working Group (MWG) has been established by the Addo Marine Coordinator (in the
Park Planning section) to raise awareness of marine issues in Addo and other parks. It also met
quarterly. The activities of the MWG have led to the allocation of dedicated SANParks marine
conservation resources from the national government. A special marine unit comprising nine
persons has been formed and equipped with a high speed rubber inflatable boat to patrol the MPA.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) was fully operational for the duration of the project
working closely with AENP/SANParks staff. A total of 514 training days for the year that ended
in March 2010 were delivered to Park employees, including contractual partnerships and
concessions, compared with a target of 350 days, thus exceeding the target by 47%. The
cumulative number of internships offered by the AENP was 29, three of which were funded with
GEF funds, one for Environmental Education, one for conservation related GIS, and the third for
marine conservation. Two of the interns have been permanently employed by SANParks with
one in Mountain Zebra National Park, and the other in SANParks’ Park Planning section focusing
on Addo and the third intern is currently under contract to SANParks with the prospect of
permanent employment in 2011/12.

Again, this reflects how the products of the project have been mainstreamed into SANParks
operations. The 29 interns funded by AENP were in the fields of tourism guidance (12),
conservation guardianship (14), and hospitality reception (3). The cumulative number of interns
at 32 exceeds the revised target of 30.

During project implementation, the key performance areas (KPAs) for staff were measured. This
is a scorecard system used by SANParks to measure personnel performance. These KPAs were
directly monitored via the balanced scorecard management measurement tool that was
implemented within SANParks in 2005. The performance of SANParks personnel directly
associated with the project was assessed using this tool, including that of the Park Manager, the
Senior Section Ranger, the Head of Park Planning & Development, the greater Addo Coordinator,
and the Marine Coordinator, among others, within the Parks and Conservation Services Divisions.
The project’s objectives are specifically reflected under the balanced score card corporate
management objective of ‘Improving the State of the Conservation Estate’ of SANParks. As
such, key project staff’s performance can be assessed by means of this tool, as can that of their
organizational divisions up to SANParks’ corporate level as the project is reflected in the KPAs
of the Executive Directors of Parks and Conservation Services Divisions. These KPAs were
assessed quarterly.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The environmental MIRS developed by the Parks Planning & Development section of SANParks
included the state of biodiversity (SOB) management report. The SOB was tested in AENP and


                                              15
later carried out in all twenty two National Parks of South Africa. This represents a substantial
mainstreaming benefit of the project and a far reaching contribution to biodiversity management.
Also, the Integrated Cultural Resource Management Plan for the Park under component 4
increased the staff capacity in SANParks’ Conservation and People and Conservation Divisions.
The mapped cultural GIS layer has been incorporated into the Park’s conservation development
framework (CDF) to assist management decision making processes. A database of all sites has
also been developed. These positive outcomes were not intended at the outset.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No formal workshops were convened in connection with preparation of the ICR. However,
meetings with stakeholder groups during the ICR mission revealed high levels of community
awareness and importance of the project to these groups (Kuzuko Lodge and private sector
stakeholders, the Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust (MNDT) and SMME representatives and
Woody Cape and central Park staff). During implementation, a park management planning
workshop was held in August 2005. In addition a series of stakeholder workshops were held in
the last two quarters of 2010 to discuss the proposed Addo MPA and the Sunday’s estuary
management plan.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
Most of the factors that could influence sustainability of the development and global
environmental outcome are positive. Given the national and local Government commitment to
gAENP, SANParks’ demonstrated capacity to administer the park system and the solid socio-
economic results, as well as that the overall investment climate in South Africa and the expected
continuation of the global trends in tourism remain strong, it is unlikely that the development
outcomes of this project are at significant risk. It is likely though that the pace of growth both of
the amount of hectares under protected area and of investments will slow down in the next few
years because of the continuing high cost of land. Though unlikely, there is a possibility that the
MPA is not declared in the future if the fishery lobbies are influential enough to convince the
Government of South Africa that the environmental and economic benefits do not outweigh the
economic and political costs. Finally, it is possible that some of the risks identified by the QAG
in the QEA assessment related to competing land issues between the poor and the rich will
materialize in the future.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The 2005 QEA conclusion was that the Quality at Entry was Satisfactory. The QEA panel
praised the Bank’s preparation team for very good knowledge of country realities, of conservation
in general and for its ability to consider lessons learnt. The ICR largely concurs with the
conclusions of the QEA which proved accurate. Areas for improvement from the QEA viewpoint
were that the preparation team could have considered additional risks in its analysis or have
helped SANParks build its own capacity to handle social or community issues. From the ICR
team’s viewpoint, the preparation team could have defined more accurately some of the key
performance indicators and highlighted in the risk section the rising land costs encountered
during implementation that were an obstacle to achieve the desired outcome.




                                                 16
 (b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank provided continuity in supervision by conducting regular supervision missions. The
same Task Manager was responsible for the project from early implementation through
completion. The Bank set high standards for implementation, and consistently maintained a long-
term vision with a strong focus on results, building capacity, involving stakeholders and efficient
administration. Supervision was also flexible and adaptive to emerging realities (e.g., rising land
prices and the associated need to revise some of the targets). The Aide Memoires and the ISRs
showed direct involvement in supervision. Procurement and financial management performance
were regularly assessed and, in the case of procurement, when problems were found these were
rectified promptly. At Mid-Term Review, once the Bank and Client teams assessed the
impossibility of meeting all the initial indicator targets given the changes in land prices, the
decision was taken to reduce a few of them accordingly. The changes were processed within the
Bank and resulted in an amendment to the Grant Agreement. After the MTR, the client requested
further modification of the targets of some indicators but this request was not processed officially.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory, based on similar ratings for Ensuring Quality
at Entry and Quality of Supervision, and especially to reflect the timely guidance provided to the
client, both technically and administratively, during project supervision. Project preparation
could have been stronger and risks better identified, however the ICR team feels that overall Bank
performance was Satisfactory overall given the high quality and responsiveness of supervision,
which may, in fact, have been Highly Satisfactory, especially given the fact that there was no
turnover of the TTL and the Bank followed up safeguard issues diligently.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Government of the Republic of South Africa performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. The
Government has maintained continuous commitment to the gAENP by successful co-funding of
the project from SANParks, and the Extended Public Works (EPWP, ex poverty relief) and Work
for Water (WFW) Programs. The Government’s US$ 53.89 million funding toward gAENP,
compared to the originally anticipated US$ 34.44 million, also reflects the Government’s strong
interest in this program. (see Annex 1(b) for details). The Government has supported programs
that have an important demonstration effect that should greatly facilitate SANParks’ efforts in
other regions. Thus, the project has had a significant demonstration effect. The increased
budgetary funding that the Government provided to gAENP to hire ten additional Park personnel
is further evidence of its commitment to this project. The Government funding was always
timely delivered.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The performance of the Implementing Agency, SANParks, is rated Highly Satisfactory.
SANParks demonstrated strong implementation capacity, providing oversight and guidance
throughout project implementation. The Regional and Park Managers, in particular, supported
and broadened their scope of work to accommodate the pilot nature of the project and to
introduce a variety of novel approaches to conservation contracts, easements and partnerships
with the private sector and with local communities. The Planning unit of SANParks provided
leadership and the big picture of the project’s vision. SANParks contracted a management unit
(PMU) that hired a coordinator from the private sector. He remained throughout the project


                                                 17
implementation, ensuring project continuity and efficiency. The efficiency and hands-on
approach of the coordinator based on his private sector operational experience was evident
throughout project implementation. Finally, another positive aspect of the implementing agency
was the internal coordination and collaboration within the organization in all aspects of
implementation. Having the PMU seated in the SANParks offices remained essential in
supervision, interaction and involvement in all aspects of the project and other linked activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Overall Borrower Performance is rated Highly Satisfactory, based on ratings for the
Government and the main implementing agency and also based on the dedication, commitment
and contribution of all who participated, including the PA Managers, social promoters,
NGOs/CSOs who were able to successfully work with and engage beneficiaries in PA
communities that contributed to the Project’s achievements.

6. Lessons Learned
Some key lessons learned from the project include:

(a) Implementing a participatory approach to achieve biodiversity conservation with
government programs, private sector and local communities can be effective both for improving
biodiversity conservation and for promoting economic development. The project demonstrated
the positive role that all key stakeholders can play to support biodiversity conservation objectives
without compromising development. The leadership of SANParks in preparing and holding a
long-term view for gAENP promoted confidence and empowerment to new conservation partners,
including the private sector and local communities around the park. The gAENP was divided into
seven distinct development zones that face different challenges and opportunities. For each zone,
concrete actions to enhance conservation and ensure that communities around the focus zones are
taken into account were identified. This guided the implementation very well. This experience is
worth sharing and replicating in other similar parks and surrounding areas not just in South Africa
but in the world.

(b) Expanding the original area of a National Park to include new ecosystems can be an
important approach to climate change mitigation and adaptation. Literature discusses the
benefits of incorporating continuous ecosystems to mitigation and support adaptation due to
climate change. This project built on this knowledge and showed a practical, on the ground
experience of such “ecological corridors”. By taking down fences and allowing the elephants and
other wildlife to less degraded new areas with less artificial water was a positive result of the park
expansion. The project also learned positive lessons of combining terrestrial and marine
ecosystems management under a single large area & management institution. This process has
not been fully completed, but results already show the positive economic and ecological gains.
This offers a greater diversity of attractions for tourists in a single location (wildlife viewing,
dune viewing, camping and trekking in wider and more diverse areas and beach and coastal
recreation) thus diversifying its impact and opportunities. Similarly, more ecosystem and
ecological processes will be preserved through this extensive and well planned expanded
ecological area.

(c) Income generated through nature based tourism can compete successfully with that
generated through agricultural activities, especially considering that agriculture income is limited
by the poor soil conditions and water availability. This project demonstrated this in a concrete
way, both, through investments and through a detailed socio-economic survey. The Addo
Elephant National Park is one of the few national parks in South Africa which now makes profit.


                                                 18
The linkage between pro-poor job creation, investment from private sector and biodiversity
conservation was well demonstrated by this project. The number of jobs linking into biodiversity
restoration exceeded expectations (1,842). This linkage has a great impact on supporting buy in
for the park among poorer adjoining communities. This should be replicated within South Africa
and the Bank should take these lessons to other regions as well.

(d) A successful monitoring and evaluation system (MIRS – SOB) was developed under the
project and systematically used for gAENP. This experience was successful that it was applied to
other national parks managed by SANParks and now is an integral part of the SANParks
monitoring system. By piloting a new system under the project, and being able to confirm that
the system works and improves the management of the park, it was possible to mainstream and
expand the system to other parks – thus increasing the capacities to manage and monitor the park
system. In addition, the financial MIRS proved invaluable for the financial management and
report writing for the project. Given that these areas are an important part of Bank operations, the
development of such a system should be done up front.

(e) Community development and managed areas is an important strategy for conservation.
The Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust (MNDT) is an excellent model for organizing
communities around a protected area and for assisting them in establishing a legally registered
entity and developing economic activities. A private sector partnership with the communities was
also a successful element in this newly established Trust whereby, in this case, the private sector
bought the compost for the citrus farms. Achieving and demonstrating success by the Trust from
its first activity can enhance its prospects for sustainability in the future. The associated lesson is
that creating community reserves takes longer to ensure that all the communities are consulted
and that they share a common plan and vision than it does to create private reserves or national
reserves. Prior capacity building in organizations and training are required to ensure ownership
of the process and results by a large number of communities.

(f) The importance of sound science remains essential to conservation planning and in
answering inquiries from difficult stakeholders. Gathering reliable scientific information should
remain a cornerstone of such projects. In this regard, the support of a strong GIS section was
invaluable in interpreting and presenting geographically related data. In addition, resource use
studies in the marine environment have been invaluable to countering community perceptions &
ideas around the sustainability of marine resources. Scientific research has already proven that
the creation of no-take zones that act as a nursery for most fisheries stocks is extremely important
to ensure the long-term availability of fisheries in both biological and economic terms. However,
in order to allow the minimum time for these nurseries to function, adequate funding is required
to compensate communities that will lose access to these resources in marine protected areas for a
short period, until the marine environment is replenished.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The client expressed its satisfaction with the way the ICR was done and wishes to highlight the
good cooperation between the Bank and SANParks during preparation, implementation and
conclusion.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders



                                                  19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) GEF Project Cost by Component (in USD Million)

                                                              Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
1. CONSERVATION
                                                0.25                    0.25               100%
PLANNING
2. IMPLEMENTATION OF
                                                2.33                    3.56               152%
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
3. INSTITUTIONAL AND
GOVERNANCE                                      1.60                    1.16                72%
STRUCTURES
4. COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT AND                                 0.15                    0.23               153%
SOCIAL ECOLOGY
5. ECONOMIC
                                                0.34                    0.08                23%
DEVELOPMENT
            Total Baseline Cost                 4.67                    5.28              116%
Physical Contingencies                          0.00                    0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.83                    0.00
             Total Project Costs
      Total Financing Required                  5.5                     5.28

(b) Total Project Financing by Component by Financiers at project closure (in USD
Million)

                                     GOV          SANParks       Local       GEF             French    Private
Components
                                                                 counterpart                 GEF
1. CONSERVATION
                                     0            1.44           0.09           0.25         0.16      0
PLANNING
2. IMPLEMENTATION OF
                                     13.28        29.25          0.87           3.56         1.03      14.54
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
3. INSTITUTIONAL AND
GOVERNANCE                           0.12         3.73           0.22           1.16         0         0
STRUCTURES
4. COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT AND                      0            4.78           0.05           0.23         0.02      0
SOCIAL ECOLOGY
5. ECONOMIC
                                     0            1.29           0.02           0.08         0.08      0
DEVELOPMENT
Total project financing              13.40        40.49          1.24           5.28         1.29      14.54

Gov: funding from the government from Working for Water, Poverty Relief and Caring for the Coast
SANParks: funding to manage the park.
Local sources: matching funds from local government
Private: funding from the business partners that signed concession and partnership agreements with
SANParks


                                                  20
French GEF: Funding provided by the French GEF to support complementary activities related to the
project.

(c) Financing by Financier
                                     Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                      Estimate             Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        (USD                 (USD       Appraisal
                                      millions)            millions)
Borrower                           27.94                53.89         197%
Global Environment Facility (GEF) 5.50                  5.28          96%
Local Sources of Borrowing Country 6.50                 1.24          18%
French GEF                         0                    1,29
Private                            0                    14.54




                                                  21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Conservation Planning
Rate: Satisfactory
The component’s objectives were: (i) to develop a planning and monitoring framework for the
long-term conservation of the unique assemblage of biodiversity in the gAENP and (ii) to avoid
environmental degradation.

Sub-GEO 1: The sub-objective ‘Park conservation and development plans in place’ was built on
four pillars:

First, at project completion four plans had been updated or developed: the Conservation plan, the
Development plan, the Management plan and the MPA plan. SANParks used C-Plan and other
software (MARXAN) to develop these plans and all outputs. SANParks planning unit had
developed and adopted a long-term vision to conserve the unique assemblage of biodiversity of
the gAENP and to arrest environmental degradation. This systematic planning concept is
considered as conservation best practice within SANParks and more generally in South Africa
and other parts of the world. The development plan (referred to as the conservation development
plan (CDF)) is a unique product that relies upon biological, cultural heritage and regional
information on how the park space should be zoned and used. Furthermore, the plans indicated
the priority areas targeted for park expansion, the road network and fences needed for better park
management and other useful information. This planning concept is being used in all of
SANParks protected areas planning. In addition it has also been adopted by other provincial
conservation agencies as a direct result of the project. The five year management plan has been
completed and accepted by SANParks, and the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA).

Second, a management information reporting system (MIRS) was developed with environmental
and financial management components. The environmental MIRS developed by the Parks
Planning & Development section of SANParks included the state of biodiversity (SOB)
management report. The SOB was tested in Addo and later applied in all twenty two National
Parks. The SOB (environmental MIRS) was automated during 2010 with support from consultant
developers and will be used to assess park biological management performance again in 2013,
once the web-based system is loaded with all previous assessments and tweaked for errors. The
SOB also included detailed sections on the state of the marine environment. The financial MIRS
was also designed, tested, and debugged. All financial management reports including co-funding,
SOE’s, FMR’s, and budgets have been produced by the financial MIRS. This has become an
essential tool for monitoring expenses within the project, producing reports in World Bank format
and interfacing with SANParks Great Plains financial management system – previously not
available.

Third, the project supported thirteen research projects that included, two sea bird studies,
vegetation monitoring at Darlington, three socio-economic surveys in 2005, 2008 and 2010,
cultural heritage resource mapping, a large herbivore impact study, a predator impact study, a
study of the Sundays River estuary, reef fish monitoring, a legal review, and a freshwater fish
study. Much of the research had direct application to developing Park policies and assisted Park
management. The cultural resources project was also very important to ensure that the Bank’s
Physical Cultural Resources safeguards policy (OP/BP 4.11, Cultural Property, OPN 11.3 at the
time of appraisal) was addressed properly (see Section 2.4).




                                               22
And fourth, the project was supposed to increase marine protection. Only the island groups of
Bird Island and St Croix, comprising 7,414 hectares have been proclaimed under the Marine
Living Resources Act. Despite the fact that the necessary public participatory process that will
lead to proclamation of the larger MPA was well on its way by project closing, new political
obstacles outside the control of SANParks’ management occurred. The Marine biodiversity-
MPAs and fisheries components, originally within Marine Coastal Management (MCM), were
separated into two different Ministries. The Marine and Coastal Management (MCM) unit of the
national Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) in the Ministry of Water and
Environmental Affairs is currently responsible for all marine area management until such time as
the MPA has been proclaimed under the Marine & Living Resources Act (MLRA) and later the
National Protected Areas Act, after which SANParks will take over management control.
Proclamation of the greater MPA is now scheduled for second half of 2011. Once the MPA is
proclaimed, gAENP management will manage both the terrestrial and marine areas as one
contiguous park, and not two separate entities, thus meeting an IUCN recommendation of
conserving biodiversity across the terrestrial - marine interface.

Component 2. Implementation of the Development Plans
Rating: Satisfactory

The component’s objective was: to implement the infrastructure and land incorporation programs
as well as the socio-economic capacity building defined in the gAENP development plan.

Sub-GEO2: Park infrastructure developed, land acquired, stocked with game and rehabilitated
was largely achieved. The AENP expanded its land area to 170,115 ha versus a target of 205,000
ha formally revised at Mid-term point and a final project target of 175,000 ha revised during the
2009 WB Mission. The terrestrial target was not fully met due to steep increase in the price of
land. SANParks envisages that the target of 175,000 ha will be met within a few years of project
closure. All the other component outputs were achieved. First, the project also delivered 154 km
of all season new roads in the Main camp and Colchester zones that is expected to aid wildlife
management and tourism development. Second, 133,000 hectares where wildlife is contained
within the boundaries of a predator proof fence were enclosed to ensure the optimal wildlife
management within gAENP. Third, more than five species of wildlife were introduced in the
133,000 ha enclosed areas including Colchester, Kuzuko, Darlignton and Nyati sections. And
fourth, the project also successfully cleared 75,044 hectares of alien species.

Component 3. Institution and Governance Structures
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The component’s objective was: to strengthen the institutional and governance structures to
ensure the successful implementation of the gAENP.

Sub-GEO 3: Capacitated park institutions and governance structures operational was achieved
in a very positive manner.

The Project’s Governance structures, namely the Addo Planning Forum (APF); the Steering
Committee (SC) and the Resettlement Working Group (RWG) were fully operational throughout
project implementation. These entities met quarterly during the past five years. In addition, a
national Marine Working Group (MWG), that was established by the Addo Marine Coordinator
(in the Park Planning section) to raise awareness of marine issues in Addo and other parks, also
met quarterly. The activities of the MWG have led to allocation of a dedicated SANParks marine
conservation resources from the national government. A special marine unit comprising nine
persons has been formed and equipped with a high speed rubber duck to patrol the MPA. The


                                               23
Project Management Unit (PMU) was fully operational for the project duration working closely
with AENP/SANParks staff. A total of 514 training days for the year ended March 2010, as
compared with a target of 350 days, were delivered to Park employees, including contractual
partnerships and thus exceeding the target by 47%. The cumulative number of internships
offered by the AENP was 29, with three funded with GEF funds, one for Environmental
Education, one for conservation related GIS, and one for marine conservation. Two of the interns
are now permanently employed by SANParks (one in Mountain Zebra National Park and one in
SANParks’ Park Planning section focusing on gAENP) and the third intern being currently under
contract to SANParks with the prospect of permanent employment in 2011/12.

Again this reflects how products of the project have been incorporated into SANParks operations.
The 29 interns funded by AENP were in the fields of tourism guidance (12), conservation
guardianship (14), and hospitality reception (3). The cumulative number of interns at 32 exceeds
the revised target of 30.

During project implementation, the key performance areas (KPAs) were directly monitored via
the balanced scorecard management measurement tool that was implemented within SANParks in
2005. SANParks personnel directly associated with the project were (assessed using this tool),
including the Park Manager, the Senior Section Ranger, the Head for Park Planning &
Development, the greater Addo Coordinator, and the Marine Coordinator, to name a few, within
the Parks and Conservation Services Divisions. The project is specifically reflected under the
balanced score card corporate management objective ‘Improving the State of the Conservation
Estate’ of SANParks. As such, the project is reflected in this objective through the specific park
and conservation service staff responsible for the project and their organizational divisions score
cards up to SANParks corporate level assessments, where the project is reflected in the KPAs of
the Executive Directors of Parks and Conservation Services Divisions. These KPAs were
assessed quarterly.

Component 4. Community Development and Social Ecology
Rating: Satisfactory
The component’s objective was: to benefit communities through enabling managed access to
natural resources, access to employment, micro enterprise opportunities (SMME), training and
environmental education.

Sub-GEO 4: Park related social and community development program implemented was
achieved as originally planned. At project closure, there were a total of 11 formal Small and
Medium Micro-Enterprises (SMME) with more than 3 employees each working on gAENP
projects. The amount paid to SMME’s through various contracts financed by gAENP, private
partners, and the Government amounted to US$ 2,867,1833. These funds have been transferred
to SMME’s through various contracts for activities such as clearing alien species, site
rehabilitation and new construction, fence line maintenance and road building. The construction,
furbishing and launching of the Interpretative Center in the Main Camp of the AENP has been
concluded. The design and construction, as well as all the interpretive materials on display that
will aid environmental education programs, were of high quality. The project purchased a bus to
bring school students to the center. From March 2009 to March 2010, 12,806 students had visited
the Main Camp. The original target was 10,000 per annum. This component also supported the
establishment of the Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust (MNDT). The MNDT was officially
formalized in 2004 with two trustees from each of the eight communities surrounding AENP and
two trustees from AENP serving on the Board of the MNDT. The objective of MNDT was to
become financially sustainable, generating funds to help develop the eight communities. A
fulltime administrator was appointed with the support of a consultant part time coordinator.


                                                24
Meetings were held every quarter plus an annual general meeting to review the business plan of
the trust. The first commercial project of MNDT was signed with the Sundays River Citrus
Company (SRCC) for the Sundays River compost project, which has resulted in the creation of
two new SMME’s that are self-sustained.

Component 5. Economic Development
Rating: Satisfactory
The component’s objective was: to stimulate overall economic development in the region by
creating an enabling environment for tourism and associated economic activity through
participation of the private sector.

Sub-GEO 5: Regional economic development benefits were achieved based on the indicator
targets agreed. The project supported a total of 6 commercial concessions within gAENP. These
are the curio shop, restaurant, and concessions (lodges) in Gorah, Darlington,Nguni, and
Riverbend.. Three signed contractual partnership agreements exist with Kuzuko, Riverbend and
Langvlakte. A preliminary tourism development model has also been prepared with project funds.
While this component did not require a lot of funds, but entailed negotiations with the private
sector, it resulted in many concrete improvements in the economic development of gAENP. First,
there was an increase in employment in the gAENP. This measure was introduced during the
course of the project and the Bank and SANParks agreed that, by project end, the target value
would be 1,596 jobs as determined by an independent socio economic survey. The actual number
achieved was 1,842 jobs. Second, the number of beds available within gAENP including
Concessions and Partners was also measured. The original target was that 440 beds would be
available by project closure with a baseline of 174. The actual achievement was 505 beds.

Table 1 below shows the 12 outcome indicators that were measured during project
implementation. Five of these indicators are listed in the Grant Agreement: 1) indicator one
measured through indicators 6 and 8 below; 2) indicator two through indicator 7 below; 3)
indicator three through indicator 12 below; 4) indicator four through indicator 1 and 2 below and;
5) indicator five was measured through an output indicator (12 and 13) listed in table 2 below.

Table 1: Summary of outcome indicators
Outcome indicators                              Baseline       Target    Formally   Revised   Achieved   Document
                                                April 04       EOP       revised    in 2009   EOP
                                                                         at MTR
Project Development Objective
1. Increase in employment in                     1,228          1,596       -          -        1,842       GA
gAENP footprint
2. Direct employment w/in AENP                    193            380        -          -         644        GA
3. Ratio of revenue to costs                      94.6            -        120         -         132
4. Number of bed available within the AENP        174            440        -          -         505
5. Number of tourism entries                     94,699        160,000      -       120,000    135,109
Global Environmental Objective
6. Ha terrestrial falling under PA management   141,000        236,000   205,000    175,000    170,115   GA&PAD
7. Ha private land included in PA                 1,500         46,000    30,000     17,608    17,608    GA&PAD
8. Ha of marine falling under PA management         0          120,000       -          -       7,414    GA&PAD
9. Score of Management Effectiveness                73            75        75          -        76
terrestrial areas                                (2007)
10. Score of Management Effectiveness               31           60         60         -         50
marine area                                      (2007)
11. Degree of proclamation of Addo marine           0            10         -          -         5
protected area                                   (2007)
12. Monitoring and evaluation system to                                                                  GA&PAD
measure improvements in ecosystems and



                                                          25
    species
       12.1. Black rhino indicator                      10          27          -               -           34
       12.2. Vegetation thicket indicator            11.9x3.5        -      11.9x3.57           -       11.9x3.57
                                                        7
       12.3. Marine – White Seacatfish sand-fish       303           -          303             -         303
    indicator
       12.4. Marine – Roman reef-fish indicator         316          -          316             -         316

    Table 2 shows the achievement of the output indicators that were measured during project
    implementation through a scoring system.


    Table 2: Summary of output achievements for all components
                                                                            Baseline    Actual      October     Variance
                                                                            March       October     2010
                                                                            2000        2010        target



Output indicator – Component 1 – Conservation Planning
1       Degree of establishment of 4 plans (Conservation plan,              0           20          20          0
        Development Plan Management plan & MPA low level plan) as
        measured by point system.
2       Degree of establishment of the Environmental MIRS as measured       0           12          12          0
        by point system.
3       Degree of establishment of the Financial MIRS as measured by        0           15          15          0
        point system.
4       A user-friendly Environment Management System (SOB) suitable        0           8           8           0
        for this and other similar projects including management policies
        developed and maintained.
5       Monitoring & research undertaken - number of research projects      0           13          11          2
        completed cumulative.

Output indicator – Component 2 – Implementation of the Development Plans
6       Hectares of the AENP where wildlife is contained within the         13,681      133,000     130,000     3,000
        boundary of a fence (Predator proof).
7       Km of all season’s road available within the boundaries of the      13,3        154,5       105         45
        AENP.
8       Hectares of the AENP where more than five wildlife species have     47,681      133,000     130,000     3,000
        been reintroduced and where their growth is documented (Predator
        and stock fence).
9       Cumulative number of hectares successfully cleared of alien         8,426       75,044      65,000      10,044
        species within the AENP.

Output indicators – Component 3 – Institutional and Governance structures
10      SANParks AENP structures fully operational - APF, SC, RWG.          0           66          66          0

11      Project management structure operational as measured by point       0           20          20          0
        system.
12      Number of training days delivered per annum for SANParks and        0           514         350         164
        partners staff – excluding government projects.
13      Cumulative number of learnerships and internships offered by        0           32          30          2
        AENP

Output indicators – Component 4 – Community Development and Social Ecology




                                                              26
14   Socio economic issues are monitored as measured by point system.     0       15         15       0

15   Number of formal SMME of more than 3 permanent employees             0       11         10       1
     and two years existence created as a result of the project.
16   Amount in Rand annually transferred to SMME through various          0       20,357,m   8,000m   +11,213m
     contracts financed by the AENP or by private concessionaires
     within AENP. (CUM)
17   Cumulative number of environmental education infrastructure          0       1          1        0
     constructed and equipped.
18   Number of days of environmental education attended by pupils         1,200   12,806     10,000   2,806
     from primary or secondary levels annually.
19   Establishment of Mayibuye Trust as a sustainable community           0       21         18       3
     trust. Inc 1 pt, Trustee meetings held 1 pt per meeting, effective
     admin in place 2 pts, 1 Commercial venture 5 pts.
20   Resettlement - All displaced farm workers provided with a job and    0       100        100      0
     house no worse than origin.

Output indicators – Component 5 – Economic Development
21   Number of signed partnership agreements.                             0       3          3        0

22   Number of commercial concessions operational in the park             0       6          6        0
     resulting in tourism infrastructure.




                                                          27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable: The Project was a stand-alone GEF project with a GEF grant and counterpart
funding from the Government of South Africa and state agencies. At the time the Project was
designed, neither financial nor economic analyses were prepared. No standard cost-benefit or
cost-effectiveness parameters were calculated; these would be very difficult to calculate ex-post.




                                               28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team Members

                                                                          Responsibility/
Names                       Title                                 Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Aberra Zerabruk             Legal                                 Legal
Agnes Kiss                  Lead Environmental Specialist         AFTEN
Christophe Crepin           Lead Environmental Specialist         EASER
Christopher Warner          Sr. Technical Specialist              ENVCF   Co-team lead
Jan Bojo                    Sector Leader                         EASER   Team lead
Jean-Roger Mercier          Safeguards                            ENV
John Boyle                  Safeguards                            AFTCS
V.S. Krishnakumar           Regional Procurement Manager          AFTPR
Supervision/ICR
Adelia Chebeia              Assistant                             CAFAS
Antonio Chamuco             Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Caroline Guazo              Language Program Assistant            AFTCS
Claudia Sobrevila           Senior Biodiversity Specialist        AFTEN ICR TTL
Chitmabala J. Sikazwe       Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Christian Nieuwoudt         Senior Disbursement Specialist        CTRDM
Henri A. Aka                Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Jao Tinga                   Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
Jayne A. Kwengwere          Program Assistant                     AFTEN
John Michel Pavy            Senior Environmental Specialist       AFTU1 Team lead
Jonathan Nyamukapa          Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Karsten Feuerriegel         E T Consultant                        AFTEN
Lungiswa Thandiwe Gxaba Senior Environmental Specialist           AFTEN
Marie Bernadette Darang     Information Assistant                 AFTEN
Marie Helen Trepy           Information Assistant                 AFTCS
Meseret Kebede              Program Assistant                     AFTAR
Mohammed Arbi Ben Achour Lead Social Development Specialist       AFTCS
Mohammad Nadeem             Paralegalr                            LEGAF
Patrick Piker Uwa Tete      Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Sandra Jo Bulls             Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Sophia Elizabetha Frederick Program Assistant                     AFCS1
Tandile Gugu Ngetu          Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM




                                            29
   (b) Staff Time and Cost


                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                             No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY99                                                   0                      24,905
FY00                                                 1.5                      12,476
FY01                                                3.94                      28,770
FY02                                                7.19                      12,226
FY03                                                9.82                      38,579
FY04                                               14.31                      55,646
Total                                              36.76                     172,600




Supervision/ICR
FY04                                                   0                         196
FY05                                                9.18                      37,176
FY06                                                 9.3                      51,955
FY07                                                9.97                      54,547
FY08                                               15.08                      65,892
FY 09                                               4.66                      17,681
FY10                                               11.77                      50,161
FY11                                               12.11                      49,815
Total:                                             72.07                     327,421


Grand Total                                       108.83                     500,022




                                      30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


N/A




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


N/A




                                        32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A draft Borrower’s comment on the ICR is presented below as sent to the Bank.

Project objectives:

The project had two key objectives, one a development objective and the other a global
environmental objective.

1.      The project’s development objective was to establish a megabiodiversity conservation
area around the existing Addo Elephant National Park to avert further ecosystem degradation.
The project also aimed to contribute to poverty reduction by creating direct employment in nature
conservation and by catalyzing the development of eco-tourism.

2.      The Global environmental objective of the project was to conserve a significant
representation of the country’s nine terrestrial biomes, including globally important terrestrial
biodiversity (236,000 ha) and one of the countries three marine provinces (120,000 ha), into a
single National Park. The project addressed threats and root causes of biodiversity degradation
across a wide range of terrestrial, aquatic and marine systems.

The aim of the project was to increase the area under conservation within the current AENP, into
the greater Addo Elephant National Park, including terrestrial and marine ecosystems. Over six
years the project sought to protect the area of globally significant biodiversity through land
acquisition and partnerships with private land owners.

The project addressed two of the main development objectives of the CAS, namely: i) Promoting
higher growth and employment while maintaining macroeconomic stability in order to generate
sustained improvement in living standards: and ii) Fostering social and environmental
sustainability by reducing poverty and inequality through investment in human and natural capital,
accelerating and improving the delivery of assets and services to the disadvantaged segments of
society and enhancing environmental management.

Overall outcome:

In conclusion it is important to record, in this report, the Government of South Africa’s and
management of South African National Parks appreciation for the financial and technical support
of the GEF and the World Bank for the past six years of this project.

Of the twelve outcome indicators only two were not met, being the attainment of the terrestrial
hectares target and the final proclamation of the MPA. Of the twenty two output indicators all
were met or exceeded, making the overall outcome of the project highly satisfactory.

SANParks as implementing agency might not have achieved over the past six years the full extent
of terrestrial land under protection or the proclamation of the Marine Protected Area as set out in
the PAD, the project has ensured that the process to achieving the terrestrial land acquisition
target and getting the Government to proclaim the MPA is well advanced at project closure, and
is expected to be achieved within 2 years.

The long term vision is that of a Park with a single fenced area for wildlife, but significantly
larger than at present encompassing a terrestrial and marine protected area.


                                                33
Critical factors that affected implementation of the project:

The project received satisfactory and highly satisfactory ratings from all the World Bank missions
which were carried out annually since the inception of the project. Only two significant
challenges were encountered at project commencement, with both challenges being resolved
effectively not to negatively impact the project.

1.      Procurement: At commencement a procurement officer was contracted with no World
Bank procurement experience, nor was he sent on World Bank procurement training, leaving him
to rely on the manual’s procedures to guide him. The classification of a number of initial
procurements were considered as mis-procurement and resulted in the resignation of the
procurement officer. All possible mis-procurements were investigated and fully cleared by the
Bank procurement specialist, and a new procurement officer was recruited who had World Bank
experience. Procurement challenges were all resolved.

2.       Monitoring and Evaluation: During design and initial commencement no formal
monitoring and evaluation assessment system was set up, which resulted in initial reporting
difficulties, however, this challenge was again swiftly met between the World Bank TTL and the
PMU Manager whereby an extremely effective outcome/output and activity matrices were
designed and implemented which ensured effective reporting throughout the duration of the
project.

Support from the World Bank:

Support from the World Bank to the project was provided constantly, (with the only exception
being the initial inconsistency on procurement guidance, which was hastily rectified), through
direct communication with an extremely supportive TTL and annual Supervision Missions. A big
advantage was having one TTL, Jean Michel Pavy from just after commencement right through
to closing mission. Not so however, with procurement and financial specialists where the project
experienced four different financial specialists, and three different procurement specialist each
with their own interpretations of the procedures and often differing.

A major positive for successful project management was the annual review of the PIP (Project
Implementation Plan) during the annual World Bank Supervisory Missions and modifying it
where required and issuing a new revision of the PIP.

Support from the World Bank from initial design to commencement through implementation and
closure of the project was always of a highly satisfactory and professional level.




                                                 34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                         35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Busico RD. 2002. Incentives and Framework for Private Land-owners incorporation: gAENP.
Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Coastal and Environmental Services (CES). 2002. Strategic environmental assessment report for
the greater Addo Elephant National Park. Unpublished. CES. Grahamstown

Coastal and Environmental Services (CES). 2003. Strategic Environmental Assessment Volume
2. Unpublished. CES. Grahamstown

Coastal and Environmental Services (CES). 2010. Socio-Economic Impact Assessment of the
Addo Elephant National Park. Unpublished. CES. Grahamstown

DEAT. 2003. National Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act (Act 57 of 2003).
Unpublished. DEAT. Pretoria

DEAT. 2005. South Africa Country Study 2005: Situational Assessment Undertaken to Inform
South Africa’s National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). DEAT. Pretoria

DEAT. 2005. South Africa’s National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. DEAT. Pretoria

DEAT. 2006. Marine Protected Areas and Blue Flag Beaches. DEAT. Pretoria

DEAT 2009. National Protected Areas Expansion Strategy. Unpublished. DEAT. Pretoria

Gordon J. 2003. Resettlement Policy Framework. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Gordon J. 2003. Resettlement Policy Framework and associated Resettlement Action Plans for
the greater Addo Elephant National Park project (gAENP). Conservation Services. Unpublished.
SANParks. Port Elizabeth

Gordon J. 2006. Abbreviated Resettlement Plan for the Greater Addo Elephant National Park
Project. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Gordon J. & Knight M. 2002. Communication Strategy. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Heemstra P & Heemstra E. 2004. Coastal fishes of Southern Africa. SAIAB and NISC.
Grahamstown.

Holness S. 2002. Conservation Planning Framework for the gAENP. Consultants/Specialists
reports towards the Strategic Environmental Assessment. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Holness, S. 2005. Update to Greater Addo Elephant NationalPark Conservation Plan. Internal
report, Conservation Services. Unpublished. SANParks. Port Elizabeth

Jackleman J. 2002. Resettlement Policy for SANParks. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Jackleman J. 2002. Strategic Management Plan for Addo Elephant National Park. Unpublished.
SANParks. Pretoria



                                             36
Jackleman J. 2002. Park Management Policy. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Knight M. 2002. Land Incorporation Framework. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Knight M.H., G. Castley, L. Moolman & J. Adendorff. 2002. Elephant management in Addo
Elephant National Park. In: GIH Kerley, S Wilson & A Massey (Eds) Elephant Conservation and
management in the Eastern Cape

Melville, P. 2002. Park Small Medium Size Micro Enterprises (SMME). Unpublished.
SANParks. Pretoria

NBSAP (2005). South Africa’s National Biodiversity Strategy &Action Plan. DEAT. Pretoria

Newman B. & Nell J. 2001. Final report on the proposed Marine Protected Area for the Greater
Addo Elephant National Park. Part 2. Aquatic Conservation Planning. Unpublished. SANParks.
Port Elizabeth

Pomroy RS, Parks JE & Watson LM. 2004. How is your MPAdoing? A guidebook of Natural and
social Indicators for evaluating Marine Protected Area Management Effectiveness

Rogers, K. 2003. Biodiversity Custodianship in SANParks: A protected area management
planning framework. School of Animal Plant & Environmental Sciences, University of
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg

Saaiman, M. & A. Saaiman. 2005. Socio-economic impact of theAddo Elephant National Park.
Institute four Tourism &Leisure Stdies. Potchefstroom University

SANParks. 2002. Strategic plan for the conservation and management of Rhinoceros (Diceros
bicornis and Ceratotherium simum) within South African National Parks 2003- 2013. Internal
report, SANParks, Pretoria

SANParks. 2005. Sensitivity-Value analysis. Manual. Unpublished. SANParks. 2005. CDF
Planning Manual. Unpublished. SANParks, Pretoria.

SANParks. 2006. Coordinated policy framework governing parkmanagement plans. Internal
report, SANParks, Pretoria

SANParks. 2006. Conservation Development Framework for Addo Elephant National Park.
Unpublished. SANParks , Pretoria

SANParks. 2008. Addo Elephant Management Plan. Unpublished. SANParks, Pretoria

SANParks. 2010. Annual Report. Unpublished. SANParks, Pretoria


SANParks. 2010. Resettlement Action Plan Audit – Addo Elephant National Park. Unpublished.
SANParks. Pretoria

SANParks. 2010. Closing Report for the greater Addo Elephant National Park Project.
Unpublished. SANParks , Pretoria



                                             37
Smythe, E. 2008. The Addo Elephant Park South Africa: An Example of Wildlife Conservation.
Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

Webley L . 2002. Greater Addo Elephant National Park Cultural Mapping Pilot Project.
Conservation Services. Unpublished. SANParks. Pretoria

World Bank. 2004. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the Global
Environmental Facility Trust Fund in the Amount of US$5.5 Million to the Republic of South
Africa for the greater Addo Elephant National Parks Project. The World Bank. Washington.

Aide memoires, ISRs and Midterm Review




                                             38
               To Graaff-Reinet                                                                                                                                                                                   To Cradock                                   To Cradock
                                                               Sunda




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gr
                                                                    y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oo
                                                                       s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t-V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ko




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n ap




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Klei
                                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                           Waterford                                                                                                           Vi




                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s


                                                                                                                           er s                                                                                                                                                                                            n-Vis
                                                                                                                      Volk                                                                                                                                                                                              lei




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K
                                                                                                         Darlington
                                                                                                               Dam



                                                                                                                            Sundays
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Grahamstown                            London

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suurberg
                                                                                                                                                                                    Wit
                                                                                                                                                                       Kirkwood
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Coerney                                                                                                                                                Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Paterson
                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                              eg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ie
                                                                                                          Kari




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Boe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kari
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Addo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          London


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kenton-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ay                                                                            Alexandria                                      -on-Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Colchester
                                                                                                                                                Sw
                                                                                                                                                     artk
                                                                                                                                                         ops   Uitenhage                                                                                                                                                                  Boknes
                                                                                                                                  Ela
                        Ga




                           m
                               to os
                                                                                                                                    nd




                                                             Klein                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        St Croix Island
                                                                                                                                             Kwanobuhle                                                                 Brenton Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Algoa Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bird Island
                                                                                       erie
                                                                                                                                                                 Bethlesdorp
                                                                                  Lo




                        To Jeffrey’s Bay                                    To Jeffrey’s Bay                                                                                              Port Elizabeth
             GABON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH AFRICA
                                                        RWANDA                    KENYA


             CABINDA
                         CONGO             D E M . R E P.
                                           OF CONGO
                                                                 BURUNDI
                                                                                               INDIAN
                                                                                               OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADDO AREA IN 2010
               (Ang.)                                                  TANZANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLANNING DOMAIN                                                RANGER SECTIONS
                                                                                               COMOROS
                                  ANGOLA                                MALAWI
                                                                                               Mayotte                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED MARINE PROTECTED AREA                                 MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                        ZAMBIA                                  (Fr.)



                                                                       MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADDO ELEPHANT NATIONAL PARK                                    NATIONAL ROADS
                                                            ZIMBABWE
                                                                                              MADAGASCAR
                                 NAMIBIA
                                               BOTSWANA                                                                                                                                                                                                  AENP − RIVERBEND CONTRACTUAL PARK                              MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AENP − KUZUKO CONTRACTUAL PARK                                 SECONDARY ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 38522
                                                                       SWAZILAND
                                                                                                                      0                 10       20               30           40
APRIL 2011




             A TLAN T I C
                                           S OU T H         LESOTHO
               OCE AN
                                           AFRICA
                                                                                          INDIAN
                                                                                          OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AENP − LANGEVLAKTE CONTRACTUAL PARK                            RAILROADS
                                                        Area of map                                                                          KILOMETERS
