                                                                                                            96386
The Greater Addo Elephant National Park                                                                April 13, 2012




 Biodiversity Conservation and Tourism Development
 A Successful Conservation and Socio-Economic Model in Addo Elephant
 National Park in South Africa


Overview
The Addo Elephant National Park (AENP) Project proved that conservation can be an engine
of regional economic growth. First, the project promoted wide-scale environmental rehabilitation
across a broad spectrum of terrestrial and marine eco-zones. A total of 170,115 ha of
terrestrial and 7,414 ha of marine ecosystems had improved their management between 2004
and the end of the project. And, secondly, the project resulted in economic growth and social
development, with South African rand R 20,357,000 transferred annually to eleven small and
medium community–based micro-enterprises (from none in 2004) and employment linked to
tourism reaching 1,842, compared to 1,228 in 2004. Investments in conservation also resulted
in an increase in the number of tourists visiting the park from 94,699 in 2004 to 135,109 yearly
in 2010.




Challenge
The AENP lies to the north of the city of Port Elizabeth, in
                                                                   More Results
South Africa’s Eastern Cape Province.  The park is one of
the most diverse conservation areas in Southern Africa with

                                                                   75,000
five different terrestrial biomes—namely the Nama Karoo,
Fynbos, Grasslands, Forests and Thicket—and the Algoa
Bay and two island groups (Bird Island and St. Croix groups),
which contain rich marine ecosystems with 10 percent of            Hectares of park land cleared of
                                                                   invasive alien vegetation species
South Africa’s population of humpback dolphins. While vastly
rich in biological diversity, the region around the AENP is
one of South Africa’s most economically challenged

                                                                   67
provinces, faced with high rates of illiteracy and
unemployment. Some 57 percent of households live in
poverty, and the province has the highest unemployment
                                                                   2010 population of endangered
rate of 48 percent (national average is 34 percent).               black rhinoceros compared to 41
Persistent poverty, unabated over the years by subsistence         in 2004
livestock farming, posed a threat to the region’s biodiversity
and hastened desertification as communities struggled to eke
out a living from their surrounding natural resource base.
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION

                                                                    SANParks Website
Approach
                                                                    Project Implementation
In 2000, South African National Parks (SANParks) launched           Completion Report
an important park planning initiative, centered on
conservation of the AENP’s unique biodiversity to be                  Project Brochure
complemented by the promotion of a sustainable eco-tourism            Country Brief
industry and capacity building for economic development.
                                                                      Project partner
The proposal outlined targeted conservation, through
enhanced ecosystem and protected area management, of a                Project partner
significant representation of the region’s diverse landscape          Country Assistance Strategy
environment, including offshore islands—a rarity on the
                                                                      Data and Statistics
African coast—coastal plains and forests, inland semi-arid
and arid plains and mountains, within one national park. An
equally important project development objective focused on
stemming further ecosystem degradation of the area by
increasing direct employment in nature conservation and
eco-tourism, which complemented the government’s national strategy at the time to generate
10 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) from tourism. Overall, the proposal called for the
adoption of a conservation and development model to avert future loss of terrestrial and marine
biodiversity. This model would be guided by an integrated and replicable management
approach that actively involved local stakeholders, including landowners, communities and the
private sector in park operations, and acquisition of additional lands through direct purchase,
establishment of concessions and contractual inclusions of privately-owned land.

Results
From 2004 to 2010:

      The ‘greater’ AENP has expanded from 140,000 ha to just over 170,000 ha on land, and
      from no marine protection to an area of over 7,400 ha being declared a Marine
      Protected Area (MPA). 

      Five sections, namely Darlington, Kabouga, Zuurberg, Nyati and Colchester, house
      133,000 ha of park wildlife protected within predator-proof enclosures.

      Approximately 75,000 ha of the park were cleared of invasive alien species of
      vegetation, which resulted in native species returning and improved water conservation.

      Completion of construction of an additional 154 km of all-season roads in the Main
      Camp zone of the Colchester section. 

      Employment linked to tourism development reached 1,842, compared to 1,228 in 2004.
      In addition, internal jobs within the AENP’s administration also rose to 540 compared to
      106 in 2004. From a social perspective, the park supplies employment and income to an
      estimated 1,400 households that support 5,600 people. 

      The private sector contributed US$14.5 million to the AENP initiative through land
      purchases, as well as lodge construction and other businesses (food, concessions,
      etc.). 

      Employment amongst local businesses showed steady increase over the last five years,
      rising from an average of 6 employees per business in 2004, to one of 23 employees
      per business in 2010. Since 2000 alone, 103 new businesses were established as a
      direct result of the park’s activities, resulting in the creation of 434 new jobs by new
      private sector enterprises.

      The number of visitors to the AENP reached 135,109 a year in 2010, up from 94,699 in
      2004 with over 50 percent coming from other countries, mainly from Germany, the
      Netherlands and the United Kingdom.

      The AENP now offers 505 beds to visitors. Six commercial concessions were
      established within the AENP including a curio shop, a restaurant, and lodges in Gorah,
      Darlington, Nguni and Riverbend. 

      Income from tourism is of significant economic benefit to the region. Total tourist
       spending within the AENP and its concessionaires in 2008-2009 amounted to R 70.1
       million. This income, when spent within the regional economy by the park and
       concessionaires on staff and goods and services, generated an additional estimated R
       140 million worth of income for local businesses and their employees.

       Populations of one of the most threatened species in the AENP and in all of Africa, the
       black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis bicornis) population continues to increase within the
       park. The population has grown from 41 in 2004, to 48 in 2006, 51 in 2007, 57 in 2008,
       62 in 2009, and to 67 in 2010.

Bank Contribution
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) provided a US$5.5 million
grant from the Global Environment Facility as well as the expertise and technical knowledge of
several experts. The fact that the Bank was involved gave additional credibility for the private
sector to invest US$14. 5 million.
 
Partners
A series of public-private conservation partnerships have allowed the park to expand by an
additional 30,000 hectares. Landowners sign long-term contractual agreements with SANParks,
thereby bringing private land under the management of the park. While the contractual areas
are managed in line with SANPark’s conservation policies, the private sector contractual
partners are entitled to operate tourism enterprises on the land. For example, the Kuzuko
Game Reserve covers 15,000 ha adjacent to the AENP’s Darlington Section on the park’s
northeast side. Located within the Blue Crane Route Municipality (BCRM), this land had been
used for stock farming. Following establishment of a Contractual Area, the reserve rehabilitated
the land and, in partnership with SANParks, began to offer conservation programs that center
on indigenous wildlife, including black rhinos, elephants and wild dogs.
 
Toward the Future
Today, the conservation planning model and monitoring methods that were developed to
support the park’s growth are considered a conservation planning best standard and used
across South Africa’s national parks system. The Addo Park Management Plan continues to
guide the conservation vision of the AENP into the future, including goals of continued
expansion, most notably in the marine zone. The government’s vision and overarching
commitment to the value of conservation served as a driving force that helped bring together
the ingredients necessary for success. The participatory approach to biodiversity conservation
instituted during the park’s expansion benefited from strong leadership from SANParks, whose
long-term view for the AENP promoted confidence in the possibility that conservation could
spur economic development, and provided a role for all key stakeholders, effectively
empowering local communities and the private sector as key conservation partners. The
concrete results and rich experiences gained by the Addo Elephant National Park Project are a
model worth sharing and replicating well beyond South Africa’s borders to encourage further
conservation for economic growth and social development. 
 
Beneficiaries
The Sundays River Valley is characterized by the conservation zones of the AENP and high
intensity irrigation farming. The valley, with its vital water resources, plays an important role in
the local economy of the Eastern Cape. In order to encourage autonomy of communities in
developing different economic activities, the project supported the establishment of the
Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust (MNDT). Officially formalized in 2004, the trust is
managed by a board composed of two trustees from each of the eight surrounding
communities, plus two trustees from the AENP’s management.
In response to the threats posed by invasive alien vegetation on the Sundays River system and
the productive soil in the valley, the Mayibuye Ndlovu Development Trust (MNDT) and the
Sundays River Citrus Company (Pty) Ltd (SRCC), one of the largest packers and marketers of
citrus fruit in Southern Africa, launched a joint commercial initiative, the Mayibuye Ndlovu
Compost Project. This project sought not only to address the problem of invasive species, but
also to support sustainable agriculture and promote sustainable employment for people from
surrounding communities. The MNDT supported the creation of two local small medium micro-
enterprises (SMMEs) and raised additional project grant funding from the European Union (EU)
of R 4,700,000. The self-sustaining SMMEs harvest alien vegetation and process the raw
material for compost manufacturing. This material is then delivered to the SRCC, which uses
the raw materials to manufacture organic compost that is then distributed to citrus growers and
other commercial buyers in the region. The Mayibuye Ndlovu Compost Project has contributed
to a revitalization of the local environment and economy by providing an opportunity for local
communities to benefit financially from the removal of invasive alien vegetation, and serves as
a benchmark for further future community development projects.
