Docunent of
The World Bank
Report No: 20353-KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.9 MILLION (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR AN
ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 10, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2000)
Currency Unit = Som
Som 1 = US$ 0.02
US$ 1 = Som 47
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADP                     Area Agricultural Development Project
ADB                      Asian Development Bank
ASSP                     Agricultural Support Services Project
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                      Comprehensive Development Framework
DWR                      Department of Water Resources
EIA                      Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR                      Economic Rate of Retum
EU/TACIS                 European Union / Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States
FEP                      Flood Emergency Project
FRR                      Financial Rate of Return
FSU                      Former Soviet Union
GEF                      Global Environmental Facility
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
IAS                      Intemational Accounting Standards
ICC                      Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee
IDA                      International Development Association
IFAD                     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRP                      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ISF                      Irrigation Service Fee
M&E                      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEP                      Ministry of Environmental Protection
MAWR                     Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
NGO                      Non-Govemmental Organization
NIRSAP                   National Irrigation Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan
NPV                      Net Present Value
OIP                      On-farm Irrigation Project
O&M                      Operation and Maintenance
PIP                       Project Implementation Plan
PIU                       Project Implementation Unit
PMR                      Project Management Report
RADS                     Rural Advisory Development Services
SEA                      Sector Environmental Assessment
SEE                      State Ecological Expertise
SOE                      Statement of Expenditure
TA                       Technical Assistance
WUA                      Water Users Associations
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:      Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:    Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader:        Joop Stoutjesdijk



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            19
2. Financial                                                                           20
3. Technical                                                                           21
4. Institutional                                                                       22
5. Environment                                                                         24
6. Social                                                                              26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      30
2. Critical risks                                                                      30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      32



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             32
2. Other                                                                               32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           35
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            53
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary      57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             71
MAP(S)
IBRD 30709



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 10, 2000                               Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera         Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P049723                              Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
C1 Loan        1 Credit        O Grant         Li Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 20.0
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Fofreign       Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     6.30           0.00          6.30
IDA                                                           10.30           9.70         20.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                  2.70           0.00          2.70
Total:                                                        19.30           9.70         29.00
Borrower: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND WATER RESOURCES
Address: 4a Toktonaliev Street, Bishkek 720055
Contact Person: Mr. Darman Alibaev
Tel: +996-312-212933                Fax: +996-312-544972                Email: piu_madyar@infotel.kg
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2001        2002         2003       2004              15    2006        2007
Annual     1.3           2.9         3.7         4.1                                 0.7
Cumulative     1.3          4.2         7.9        11.9        16.0        19.3        20.0
Project implementation period: Six (6) years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  03/31/2007
0CS PAD F-rn Rev M.    20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP) is to achieve increased
crop production through reliable and sustainable water distribution on about 160,000 ha of irrigated land
across the country's seven oblasts.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the development objective in the project areas where Water Users Associations
(WUAs) have been established and strengthened and that have benefited from irrigation and drainage
rehabilitation would be measured based on the following impact indicators:
*   percentage of operation and maintenance (O&M) needs of on-farm irrigation systems covered;
*   distribution of adequate irrigation water in a timely manner, in line with crop water
requirements (specific for each farm, based on cropping patterns) and measured through
distribution efficiency; and
*   increase in crop yields by 10 percent in comparison with the project area before investments
and also representative non-project irrigated areas (using a number of fields of representative
farm entities for each WUA; for areas that benefit both from the ongoing Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (IRP) and the OIP, the yield increase will amount to a combined
incremental yield of 20 percent).
Main output indicators would be:
*   number of well functioning WUAs, with users representation and participation;
*   number of operation and maintenance plans developed, fully costed and implemented; and
*   level and collection rate of Irrigation Service Fees (ISF).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17641-KG                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/07/98
The strategic objectives of the CAS are to: (i) attain sustained growth; (ii) reduce poverty; (iii)
improve governance and strengthen institutional capacity; and (iv) strengthen public finances. The CAS
identifies the attainment of long-term sustainable growth in agriculture as one of the major challenges
facing the country. Much of this growth would have to come from irrigated crop production, which has the
potential to contribute to raising the incomes of a large part of the rural population where poverty is
concentrated. The CAS also indicates that the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure (both off-farm
infrastructure, which refers to infrastructure from water sources to the boundaries of the former state and
collective farms (referred to as 'the farms' in this report), and on-farm infrastructure, which refers to
distribution systems inside these former farms) is a priority for the Government. Irrigation infrastructure
has fallen into disrepair during many years of underfunded maintenance. Rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure would go hand in hand with the establishment of WUAs which would assume responsibility
for O&M of on-farm irrigation infrastructure, while appropriate tariff pricing policies would be developed
for cost sharing for the O&M of off-farm systems, in order to reduce the burden on the State budget.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agricultural Growth: Agriculture is the mainstay of the Kyrgyz economy, consistently
accounting for about 45 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and close to 50 percent of employment,
particularly in the rural areas where two-thirds of the population reside. Following a significant decline in
agricultural output in the first half of the 1990s resulting from a large reduction in subsidies and shifts in
relative prices for outputs and inputs, agricultural output has begun recovering in the second half of the
decade, with double digit growth recorded during 1996 and 1997 and growth of around 3 percent during the
past two years. However, significant obstacles and challenges lie ahead if an acceptable rate of growth is
to be maintained. The sector is still caught in a cycle of low profitability resulting from weak domestic
demand, poor access to export markets, underdeveloped internal marketing channels and low levels of
investment leading to further declines in the value of capital assets. Fariners' perceived constraints to
profitable agriculture include shortage of working capital and credit, lack of machinery, fuel, fertilizer,
technical services, market access and business experience and deteriorating irrigation and drainage systems.
The Government has placed high priority on growth in the agriculture sector in its strategy for
economic recovery. Substantial policy changes and reform measures have been introduced over the past
few years, but implementation has often lagged behind. Nevertheless, progress has been made in
implementing agricultural reform in areas such as price deregulation, trade liberalization, privatization of
agro-industrial enterprises and land reform (including the right to private ownership of land that was
approved by referendum in the fall of 1998 and the adoption in the spring of 1999 of the law on land and
law on mortgage, both of which are supportive of land markets and investment in land). None of these
measures has so far resulted in major increases in productivity and profitability of farms. Much more
needs to be done to consolidate reforms and remove constraints in order to improve the efficiency,
profitability and sustainability of the sector. To achieve this, public and private investment and promotion
of institutional development are critical. Assisted by bilateral and multilateral donors, Government is
already following a multi-pronged strategy that addresses such aspects as market development, access to
credit, improvement to rural and irrigation infrastructure and provision of advisory services to farmers.
Irrigation Sustainability: The Kyrgyz Republic is generally well endowed with water resources,
much of which originates from snow and glacier melt. The average annual runoff in the country is 47
billion m3 of which, by international agreement, 25 percent can be retained. About 90 percent of this
allocation is used for agricultural purposes. Precipitation varies greatly with topography and altitude,
ranging from 130 to 680 mm per year, with up to half falling inside the agricultural growing season from
April to September. This is generally inadequate to support anything other than extensive subsistence
cultivation of a few drought resistant crops. For example, during the agricultural growing season the mean
precipitation in Bishkek, Jalal-Abad and Osh is 229, 179 and 119 mm respectively (not all of which is
effective to the crops), while the mean reference crop evapotranspiration during the same period is 886, 806
and 947 mm respectively. Consequently, irrigation is a key input for reliable crop production.
About 1.07 million ha have been developed for irrigation, covering over 80 percent of the arable
land in the country. Some 767,000 ha receive water through off-farm irrigation systems under the
responsibility of the Department of Water Resources (DWR), while the remainder comprises schemes with
independent abstraction works that are not under DWR's responsibility. Irrigation water is predominately
gravity-diverted and surface-applied. Less than 100,000 ha throughout the country are under lift irrigation,
mostly low-lift, but including 37,000 ha under sprinkler irrigation. About 150,000 ha have drainage
facilities, mainly in Chui oblast.
Long-term Development Strategy: Government has initiated a number of measures to address
-3 -



problems in the irrigation sub-sector and improve the viability of irrigated agriculture (see below). It is
aware of the fact that long-term rural development depends on the proper management of land and water,
with emphasis on efficiency of use and conservation of water resources. Government is committed to
solving constraints in inter-state water management, while seeking an equitable use of water in the region
and riparian contributions to the O&M of inter-state water facilities, such as dams and inter-state supply
canals.
With the assistance of the European Union/Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of
Independent States program (EU/TACIS) and IDA, the Government is in the process of formulating a
National Irrigation Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan (NIRSAP), which is expected to be completed
in mid-2000. This Plan is expected to promote the technical, financial, economic, environmental and
institutional sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector and develop a clear set of priorities for the
rehabilitation, modernization and management of the irrigation infrastructure in the Kyrgyz Republic to
provide a reliable water supply service on a sustainable basis. NIRSAP is expected to also provide an
important input into the national and inter-state water resources management strategies to be prepared
under the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) funded Water and Environmental Management Project,
which covers all five Central Asian States in the Aral Sea Basin.
Even though NIRSAP is not yet completed, the final results are unlikely to affect the scope of the
OIP. The concept of WUA establishment and strengthening is fully accepted by Government. The OIP
will focus on about 160,000 ha of schemes that have to be economically viable and have the greatest farmer
interest. This would represent only 15 percent of the irrigation systems in the country and would be high
priority rehabilitation investments under any scenario. As the OIP follows a program approach, relevant
aspects of NIRSAP could still be taken into account during project implementation.
Fundingfor the Irrigation Sub-sector: Available funds for the maintenance of off-farm irrigation
infrastructure have been far below required levels during the past decade. As a result, the infrastructure is
falling into disrepair. During 1998 and 1999 the DWR received approximately Som 140 million
(equivalent of about US$ 7 million in 1998 and US$ 3 million in 1999) from State budget for O&M. In
addition, Som 49 million and Som 71 million were collected from water users during 1998 and 1999
respectively. About 65 percent of the State budget came from a grant from the European Union. This
grant assistance is expected to continue at least during the next few years.
DWR's approved operational budget for 2000 is Som 295 million (around US$ 6.3 million),
including Som 154 million from the State budget (of which Som 112 million is from the EU) and the
balance is expected from water fees, including riparian contributions. IDA estimates that at least Som 540
million (US$ 11.5 million) is required to operate and maintain the off-farm irrigation infrastructure under
the management of the DWR on a sustainable basis. Thus, the total approved 2000 budget is estimated to
be sufficient only for operating and maintaining slightly over half of the 765,000 ha under the Departnent's
responsibility or, more likely, will lead to continuing deferred maintenance of irrigation systems (see also
Section F). Despite the shortage of budget, the DWR continues to have sufficient and dedicated staff that
is committed to deliver water to the users as good as it can under difficult conditions.
Government adheres to the concept that users should pay for water delivery services if the off-farm
irrigation infrastructure is to continue functioning. Water users have contributed to the operational budget
of the DWR through an ISF, that was first introduced in 1995. The proceeds remain limited, however,
because the fee remains low; Som 15 per 1,000 m3 until 1999 when it was increased by Parliament to Som
30 per 1,000 m3. Several times the Government has proposed amendments to the Water Law to allow
Government and the water users, rather than Parliament, to set the level of ISF on the basis of economics
-4 -



rather than politics. Parliament has so far resisted this proposed change to the law. Collection rates have
increased steadily since 1995 and reached around 90 percent during the past two years. Collection is a
major activity for the DWR at raion level, as it is made from each individual water user. Furthermore,
most rural areas are currently starved of cash and practice a barter economy. As a result, up to 80 percent
of the fee is paid in agricultural produce, which involves a transaction cost.
Even with the increase in ISF and the high collection rates, funds available for O&M remain
insufficient and most of DWR's budget is used for staff costs and operation of the off-farm irrigation
systems. Government has insufficient funds for the rehabilitation and modernization of the irrigation
infrastructure which is needed to bring irrigation systems up to efficient standards and maintain the supply
of water to users. Large investments are needed to make up for years of neglect, a start of which has been
made through the IDA funded Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (FY98). Rehabilitation and institutional
developments under that project are aimed at improving the timely and adequate water delivery to the
boundaries of the former state and collective farms, which is of course the first priority in sustaining
irrigation services.
The dissolution of the state and collective farms created a vacuum in responsibility for O&M of
on-farm irrigation and drainage systems. Financial contributions by the water users towards O&M of
on-farm systems have been negligible and in-kind contributions have been made very irregularly. The lack
of incentives and funds for proper O&M and rehabilitation of on-farm infrastructure continues the
deterioration of the irrigation distribution systems. In addition, there is a need to adapt the distribution
systems and their water control facilities to the newly emerging structure of varied farm organizations. As
a result, there are problems with reliable and timely distribution of irrigation water to users.
Institutional Framework: Ownership of the on-farm irrigation facilities on the former state farms
was previously exercised by the farms, while the irrigation facilities on the collective farms were owned by
the members of the collective. There is little consistency in who exercises this right now. By decree of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR), issued in August 1994, on-farm irrigation
infrastructure was transferred to Village Councils. Their responsibility for O&M of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure was on top of many other responsibilities such as social welfare, local roads, local schools
and local water, sanitation and health services. Given the Councils' limited staff and financial resources, it
was technically and financially impossible to properly fulfill the responsibility for irrigation infrastructure
O&M. Based on an August 1997 Government Resolution on-farm irrigation could be transferred to legally
established WUAs, who then would have the responsibility to operate and maintain the on-farm systems.
So far, about 90 WUAs have been legally established, but almost all of them are still in an embryonic stage
with few financial resources to operate. A program to strengthen and support these newly established
WUAs is not in place, which would be a major focus of the OIP.
Legal Framework: A resolution on the establishment of WUAs was signed by the Prime Minister
on August 13, 1997. This resolution allows for the legal establishment of WUAs and stipulates the
procedures of creating WUAs, their membership, activities, rights and duties, etc. A resolution is,
however, not a strong and clear legal basis for the establishment of complex organizations such as WUAs
and as an item of subordinate legislation can be altered easily and quickly. Government is, however,
serious about the WUA concept and thus agreed to the need for the drafting of a comprehensive WUA law
during project preparation. The WUA law is now ready in draft. It allows for the establishment of a WUA
as a participatory non-commercial organization that acts in the public interest for the purpose of operating
and maintaining a specific irrigation system so as to provide the owners and users of agricultural land with
irrigation water. With considerable support from the Parliamentarian Committee on Agriculture the draft
WUA law is now ready for discussion in the new Parliament that has started its activities in April 2000.
-5-



Until such time the WUA law will be approved, the resolution will be sufficient basis for the project to
continue the process of establishing and strengthening WUAs. An assurance has been obtained from
Government that either a resolution or law providing a satisfactory legal framework for WUAs shall remain
in place during project implementation.
A review of the Water Law (January 4, 1994) was recently carried out by the Land Reform Project
(LRP). It found that the law is not very cohesive, contains inconsistencies and is not always in line with
newer laws on land and licensing. Furthermore, the existing provisions on water rights in the legislation do
not give water users sufficient security to realistically expect them to invest in the water sector. At present,
the right to a specified quantity of water lasts for only one year in the cases where water users enter into
contracts with the DWR. The LRP will work with Government on drafting either amendments to the law
or a new law, that will include the provision for water users to have long-term water rights and also contain
provisions to ensure appropriate tariff setting to allow for adequate O&M of the irrigation infrastructure
under the management of DWR. Assurance has been obtained from Government that a new or amended
Water Law, acceptable to the IDA, will be presented to Parliament by June 30, 2001.
The State owns the off-farm irrigation and drainage facilities, which are managed by the DWR. In
the long-term, when WUAs are able to properly manage and maintain the on-farm irrigation systems,
Government would like to transfer higher-order irrigation infrastructure to WUAs and federations of
WUAs. As indicated in the foregoing, much of the on-farm irrigation infrastructure has been transferred to
Village Councils. Since then infrastructure in some schemes has been transferred to WVUAs. What is not
yet arranged by law is whether this transfer is one of full ownership by the W1UAs or one of long-term use
right. Government is still debating on this issue, which has experienced delays now that a new Parliament
had to be elected early 2000.
WUAs are expected to collect fees consisting of two elements: (i) ISF, currently established by
Parliament, to be transferred to DWR; and (ii) fees to be collected for the management and maintenance of
the on-farm irrigation infrastructure under the authority of the WUAs. The expected annual collection of
1SF is already included in the state budget as a public revenue for use by the DWVR for the O&M of
off-farm irrigation infrastructure. It is understood that ISF would not be subject to any taxation, including
VAT. There is a Governmental Decree 'On Special Means' which regulates these kinds of funds. WUAs
are non-profit making organizations and their services such as O&M of on-farm irrigation infrastructure
and administration should be considered as public services and also exempted from VAT.
The tax code allows for cost amortization which would permit WUAs to set aside annual amounts
of money for the purpose of financing future replacement of irrigation assets. This would not be considered
as profit as long as it is in accordance with the existing relevant laws and regulations. Therefore these
funds, that are critical for the long-term sustainability of the irrigation systems, could be collected by the
WUAs from its members and put aside without requiring the payment of profit or annual taxes.
-6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The ongoing IRP finances rehabilitation of main and secondary irrigation systems in order to
provide a timely supply of adequate quantities of irrigation water to the boundaries of the former state and
collective farms. The next step, to be taken under the proposed OIP, would be to rehabilitate and
modemize on-fann irrigation infrastructure within the farms, mainly within the conimand areas that have
benefited from the IRP, to ensure that the supplied water can be used more reliably and efficiently.
Rehabilitation and modernization would focus on carefully selected priority works, rather than
comprehensive rehabilitation and modernization, so that the project's economic impact can be maximized.
Rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation infrastructure would only be worthwhile if there is adequate
maintenance afterwards. To achieve this, Government has recognized the importance of developing and
strengthening WUAs as the critical organization responsible for on-farm O&M. The project would address
the issues of irrigation sustainability, institutional strengthening and continue the assistance to the
development of a proper legal framework. It would promote the establishment and strengthening of
self-sustaining WUAs. The project would assist WUAs to gradually take full charge of all the O&M costs,
as well as generate a provision for future asset replacement. A strategic choice made to support the above
is to develop permanent capacity for the training and strengthening of WUAs, rather than capacity for the
duration of the project. WUA support units would be fully integrated in the DWR. Government is firm in
its desire to have a country-wide project, rather than focusing on the oblasts with the most irrigation. It
was agreed that the project will cover seven oblasts and up to 19 raions, but that the establishment of WUA
support units would be staggered over at least a three-year period and that first priority would be given to
the oblasts.
The project would assist in the drafting of amendments to or a new Water Law and would also
ensure that remaining ownership and taxation issues are addressed early on during project implementation.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would consist of three components: (a) WUA Strengthening Services; (b)
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and O&M; and (c) Implementation Support.
Component 1: WUA Strengthening Services
WUA Support Units: The project would support the establishment and training of WUA support
units at: (i) the DWR central office in Bishkek; (ii) DWR offices in the seven oblasts; and (iii) DWR
offices in up to an estimated 19 raions. All WUA support units are expected to be integrated in the
respective offices and, consequently, allow the development of permanent capacity to establish, train,
support and strengthen WUAs. Support to WUAs would be an incremental activity for the DWR. The
staff of the support units would be hired as consultants and 80 percent of the costs would be paid from
project funds through December 31, 2003, during which time they would be trained while at the same time
they would start working with WUAs. From January 2004 the process of regularizing the support units
into the normal government staff pattern of the DWR will start, through a step-wise decrease in project
financing, and preferably without an increase in the total number of DWR employees. Government would
therefore review options for future restructuring of DWR's current functions and activities and its staffing
needs, including a plan for the integration of the WUA support units into MAWR's structure, before June
- 7 -



30, 2003 (see also Section E.4).
Technical Assistance: The project would finance technical assistance consultants (TA) to provide
technical expertise in WUA development, formal and on-the-job training and provision of knowledge
transfer to staff of the WUA support units.
WYUA Strengthening: The project is expected to work with at least 160 WUAs and provide
promotion and awareness seminars to introduce the proper concepts of WUAs, as well as a minimum of
100 training courses to WUA staff and members. Courses to be developed and offered to WUAs would
include topics on support functions, govemance and administration, financial management and irrigation
system operation and maintenance. The project would assist WUAs in developing annual O&M plans,
including costing and determination of ISF. Based on WUA demand, the project would finance small
equipment, such as office equipment, motor cycles, current meters and tensiometers. Financing of such
items would be done on credit basis, with the WUAs responsible for 100 percent repayment (for repayment
conditions see Section D. 1).
Study Tours: Staff from the DWR at all administrative levels and WUA members would
participate in a number of study tours to countries with experience in WUA development and transfer of
irrigation management. These study tours would provide exposure to staff, who so far have had no chance
to interact with WUA support staff and water users in countries (e.g. Albania and Mexico) where there has
been success in activities that are proposed under this project.
Component 2: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and O&M
On-farm Distribution Systems: The project would support rehabilitation of on-fann irrigation
distribution systems under the management of WUAs that have met certain decision criteria and milestones
(see Annex 2). These systems typically comprise one or a few major canals running through the farm, from
which smaller canals take off to supply water to an area of around 40 ha. Within such a block, owned by
one or more farmers, the water is applied to the crops through seasonally excavated ditches, a practice that
will not be changed by the project. The rehabilitation needs of the on-farm systems would be farm specific
and determined by WUA members with the assistance of WUA support unit staff, but are expected to
include rehabilitation of lined canals, cleaning of earthen canals and drains, rehabilitation and construction
of hydraulic structures, construction of water measuring devices and repair to night storage reservoirs and
scheme roads. It is estimated that the project would rehabilitate on-farm irrigation infrastructure
commanding approximately 160,000 ha under the responsibility of about 80 WUAs. WUAs would be
responsible for repayment of 25 percent of the investment costs (see Section D. 1).
Off-farm Inter-farm Systems: The project would give priority to farms within the command area
of irrigation systems that have or will be rehabilitated under the IRP. It is envisaged that the IRP
interventions will precede the OIP ones. Since there are a number of farms outside this command area with
strong interest in WUA development and readiness to fulfill all selection criteria and milestones, some of
the off-farm infrastructure supplying these fanns would be rehabilitated as well. This sub-component
would fund the necessary rehabilitation of inter-farm systems, including canal cleaning and lining and
structures. These investments would be bome by the Goverunent.
Design and Supervision: Most of the survey, design and supervision work would be carried out on
behalf of the WUAs by staff of the WIUA support units at raion level, supervised and controlled by the
oblast WUA support unit staff. Complicated design and supervision works that are beyond the capacity of
the WUA support units would be contracted to a private consulting firm.
- 8 -



Operation and Maintenance: Participating WUAs must develop a plan to achieve long-term
financial viability, which would include step-wise increases in user contributions. The contributions must
eventually reach a level that can sustain the WUA as well as the irrigation infrastructure under its
management. These incremental recurrent costs would be fully funded by the WUA beneficiaries (see also
Section F).
Component 3: Implementation Support
Project Implementation Unit: The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in MAWR/DWR that has
been established for implementation of the IRP and Flood Emergency Project (FEP) would be strengthened
with staff and equipment to implement the OIP as well. The annual audit of the OIP accounts will be
financed from the Credit.
lndivaeve             Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
_ US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
A. WUA Strengthening Services      Institutional       6.18       21.3      4.60       23.0
A. 1. WUA Support Units       Development
A.2. Technical Assistance
A.3. Training and Study Tours
B. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and    Irrigation &  22.25       76.7      14.92      74.6
O&M                            Drainage
B. 1. Distribution Systems
B.2. Inter-farm Canal Networks
B.3. Design and Supervision
B.4. Incremental O&M
C. Project Implementation Support  Other Non-sector    0.57        2.0       0.48       2.4
C. 1. Support to PIU           Specific
C.2. Annual Audit
Total Project Costs                   29.00      100.0     20.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    29.00      100.0     20.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support government's efforts to promote the establishment of sustainable WUAs
and help them take care of the O&M of the infrastructure under their management.
The project would assist the DWR in establishing permanent institutional capacity to support
WUAs to become self-sustaining. It would also incorporate mechanisms to assure that water users have a
major role in decision-making concerning rehabilitation requirements and setting fees for the O&M of
off-farm irrigation infrastructure. Government's contributions for the O&M of the irrigation infrastructure
under DWR management are expected to stay constant during the next few years and eventually decrease,
as users contributions increase. Once the calculation of ISF is based on financial criteria, the WUAs would
be consulted in the process of setting ISF for the services provided by the DWR, which should be done
through a transparent process, whereby water users would pay the optimum cost of off-farm O&M that
would reflect the real needs to provide the water delivery service.
-9-



3. Benefits and target population:
The project would have a large geographical area as it would cover all seven oblasts of the
country. Infrastructure improvements would be carried out on irrigation systems serving approximately
160,000 ha of agricultural land. This land would be the service area under the responsibility of about 80
WUAs. As not all WUAs would mature at the same rate to enable them to borrow and repay rehabilitation
funds, the project would help strengthen as many as 160 WUAs to ensure that at least 80 WUAs would be
ready to assume responsibility for rehabilitation and O&M. Over the life of the project, project activities
are expected to benefit in excess of 150,000 farn families.
The primary project benefits would be increased crop production generated in two ways: (i) the
elimination of a steady decline in production, estimated at one percent per year, due to a continuing gradual
deterioration of the on-farm irrigation infrastructure without the project; and (ii) a modest overall increase
in yield after rehabilitation due to improved water supply to the fields (assumed overall average yield
increase is 10 percent, based on a 10 percent increase in distribution efficiency).
The project would cover all oblasts, which means that water users would be different in terms of
their ethnic origin and socio-economic conditions. Similarly, within the command area of a given WUA,
some members are now obviously substantially worse off than others because of current deterioration of
distribution systems. Since all the members of the WUA should benefit from the rehabilitation works, the
project would therefore have a positive impact on income distribution.
The main non-quantifiable benefit would be that of institutional capacity building. The project
would strengthen the capacity of the DWR, at the field level (oblasts and raions) as well as at the central
level, to promote and support WUAs. It would also include the introduction of a client-driven approach by
the public authorities, especially at raion level, in their dealings with WUAs concerning the delivery of
irrigation water. As the project would develop a permanent capacity in the DWR, these benefits would be
applicable to any similar projects in the future. Furthermore, all successive agricultural projects using a
participatory approach would be able to take advantage of the organizational development and experience
acquired under the proposed OIP.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Duration
Project implementation is anticipated to take six years, from October 2000 to September 2006.
The Credit Closing Date would be March 31, 2007.
Executing Agency and Implementation Arrangements
Project Implementation Unit (PIU): The MAWYR would be responsible for project
implementation. A PIU is operational within the DWR for the daily management, administration and
coordination of the IRP and FEP, including accounting, procurement, disbursement, management of the
Special Accounts (SA), monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and reporting. This PIU will be expanded
and strengthened to carry out the day-to-day implementation of core functions of the OIP and the
irrigation and drainage component of the Chui Area Agricultural Development Project (AADP), funded
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). To facilitate a uniform approach to the irrigation and
drainage activities of the AADP and OIP, Government requested the use of a common PIU. The
AADP, which is expected to become effective in the early summer of 2000, would adopt an
- 10 -



area-focused approach to project investment in the agricultural sector and would support farm
restructuring, irrigation and drainage, input supply, machinery hire service, marketing and finance. The
AADP's irnigation and drainage component will finance the rehabilitation of both off- and on-farm
irrigation and drainage systems, commanding about 55,000 ha. The OIP would supplement the
irrigation efforts planned by the ADB in Chui oblast by assisting interested WUAs that would not
receive ADB support with rehabilitation of infrastructure. In addition, the WUAs in the AADP project
area would receive institutional support from the WUA support units to be established under the OIP.
The existing PIU has the following core staff: Project Director, Procurement Specialist,
Financial Manager, Accountant and M&E Specialist. The PIU Director reports directly to the Deputy
Minister of MAWR, who is in charge of the DWR. In addition, the PIU employs specialist engineers
for the IRP and FEP. In order to ensure satisfactory implementation of the AADP and OIP and the
development of sustainable WUAs, the PIU and DWR would operate and be strengthened as described
in the following paragraphs.
The PIU core staff would be responsible for all core activities such as procurement and
financial management for all four projects. The PIU would be responsible for carrying out all
procurement actions using World Bank and ADB procurement procedures, as applicable. It would also
prepare all Requests for Proposals and terms of reference for consulting assignments. The PIU would
serve as the basis for the bid committee that would be responsible for reviewing and evaluating
procurement packages. The bid committee would, as a minimum, be composed of the PIU Deputy
Project Director (see next paragraph), PIU Procurement Specialist, DWR representative and
representative of the State Committee on Foreign Investment and Economic Development
(Goskominvest), as well as a WUA representative and raion DWR representative when the procurement
package relates to works or goods for WUAs. The PIU will also be responsible for the financial
management of the project (see below in section on Financial Management).
A Deputy Project Director, Engineer and M&E Specialist/Economist, to be financed as
consultants for the PIU, would be specific to the OIP and AADP. A second Procurement Specialist
would be hired as well with project funds to share the procurement work with the other PIU
procurement specialist. In addition, the AADP would finance a Coordinator to be based in the PIU.
These individuals would all play a coordination role between the IDA, ADB, Government and the
projects. The Engineer would ensure that the technical aspects of the engineering work are carried out
professionally. The M&E Specialist/Economist would be responsible for establishing a project-wide
M&E system that would allow the PIU to track and document the progress of the projects by measuring
outputs and impacts in the project sites and pinpoint locations where the project is having difficulties.
The Deputy Project Director would report to the PIU Director, who would continue to report directly to
the Deputy Minister. In the case of the AADP, the PIU Director would also liaise closely with the
Project manager of the AADP Project Management Unit, which will manage the other components of
the AADP.
The ADB is expected to finance an intemationally recruited Irrigation and Drainage Engineer
for 1.5 years, a Contract Specialist for 6 person months and 6 person months of unspecified short-term
assistance. Both the AADP and OIP would benefit from the expertise of these specialists, not only for
Chui oblast, but for the other oblasts as well.
As required and based on the workload, the project would finance additional core and technical
staff to ensure that all activities under the four projects are carried out effectively., Manpower
requirements would be evaluated jointly by the Banks and Govemment during regular supervision
- 11 -



missions to determine any necessary changes.
WUA Support Units: The DWR would develop within its organizational structure an in-house
ability to support WUAs both technically and organizationally. The staff of the WUA support units
would during the project duration serve as consultants. It is expected that by the end of the project
WUA support units would become fully part of the existing DWR organizational structure. With an
average service area of 2,000 ha per on-farm system and a total irrigation service area of 1.07 million
ha, over 500 sustainable WUAs need to be fonned, which means that there is need for WUA support
units to form and strengthen additional WUAs after the OIP is completed. In general, the support units
would have responsibility for WUA promotion, assistance with establishment (both of which are
activities that the DWR has already been carrying out during project preparation), training, technical
support and backstopping to WUAs and monitoring and evaluation. The WUA support units would not
only have responsibility for WUAs to be supported under the OIP, but also those that would benefit
from rehabilitation financed by the AADP, as well as any other WUA that would request ad-hoc
assistance.
Given the limited internal expertise and experience with WUA development it has been agreed
that the project would start in four oblasts (Chui, Issyk-kul, Jalal-Abad and Osh) during the first year
and then expand to three additional oblasts (Batken, Naryn and Talas) during the second year.
Simnilarly, the project is expected to start in four raions during the first year, expand with seven
additional raions during the second year and then add another eight raions during the third year. The
raions with most irrigation area and farmers interest to forn WUAs would be targeted. The
raion-based WUA support unit staff would not limit its assistance to WUAs within its administrative
boundary, but would also assist WUAs in neighboring raions as needed.
A small WUA support unit would be formed within the DWR at the center level in Bishkek to
coordinate and supervise WUA support activities. The unit would be staffed with a WUA
Development Specialist, Engineer, Training/Promotion Specialist and Financial Specialist. A TA team
would be recruited by the PIU to assist in the forrnation and strengthening of the WUA support units.
The TA team would work within the office of the WUA support unit in Bishkek. A major
responsibility of the TA team would be to develop the institutional capacity within the DWR to form
and support WUAs. The TA team would include a mix of mainly short-terrn consultants, including
WUA Development Specialist, WUA Training/Promotion Specialist, Financial Specialist, Legal
Specialist and M&E Specialist. The support unit and TA staff would work closely with the Rural
Advisory Development Services (RADS) Secretariat in Bishkek, which has training and extension
expertise and a media unit. RADS is supported by the IDA and IFAD financed Agricultural Support
Services Project (ASSP). Relevant WUA training material from other regional countries would be used
to prepare training material under the project.
In order to create technical support at oblast level, a WUA support unit would be established in
each of the seven oblasts. These support units would develop strategies for WUA development within
the oblasts as well as programs for helping WUAs to determine their irrigation system improvement
requirements. The support units would also be responsible for formulation of long-term programs for
WUA strengthening and work with the WUA support units at raion level to develop sustainable WUAs.
Each oblast unit would include the following subject matter specialists: Engineer, Water Management
Specialist and WUA Support Specialist. The oblast support unit specialists would coordinate closely
with the oblast RADS centers. These centers have been established to provide farmers with technical
advisory services. It would be the responsibility of especially the WUA Support Specialist to work
closely with RADS staff in order to minimize duplication of activities and maximize the effectiveness of
- 12-



training courses and other outreach activities.
The raion office of the DWR would become a bulk seller of water, with WUAs as their
primary clients. Contracts for the supply of water would be negotiated on an annual basis between
DWR and WUA, based on farmers demands that are compiled by the WUA. Supply to the farm
boundary is typically continuous and the major challenge is with the WUA to distribute the water
within the farm to the water users as effectively as possible. The WUAs would not only have to
assume responsibility for sustainable O&M, but would also have to plan for long-term improvements of
the on-farm systems as well as to ensure that they remain financially sound. With this type of
relationship it is very important that raion offices have the technical and institutional ability to support
WUAs to ensure they are viable farmer-govemed organizations. For this WUA support units would be
established within a number of raion offices of the DWR to help with the formation of WUAs,
including providing assistance to help them register as legally recognized entities, and strengthening
thereafter. It is envisioned that there would be three staff working in each raion support unit, namely an
Engineer, a Water Management Specialist and a WUA Support Specialist. Raion support unit staff
would work closely with the WUAs to strengthen them and arrange training courses to give them the
skills needed to properly manage, operate and maintain their irrigation system. The staff of the units
would work closely with the RADS advisers at the raion level. The support units would also work with
the WUAs during the rehabilitation phase. In particular, the Engineer would assist WUAs in
identification, survey, design and supervision of the works.
WUAs: WUAs would be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary participation in the project.
Rehabilitation would only take place after a WUA has shown commitment to adequate O&M in future,
which would include its establishment as a legal entity, employment of WUA operational staff,
participation of WUA Board members and operational staff in a number of training courses and setting
of adequate tariff levels for O&M.
Farms would be selected in accordance with agreed procedures and eligibility criteria, and the
rehabilitation of each system would be carried out in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, all
of which are described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and summarized in Annex 2.
Rehabilitation would be in response to a WUA request and members would participate at all stages
from identification, planning, design and construction. WUA support units would facilitate the
prioritization with technical advise and assist WUAs in surveys, design, procurement and construction
supervision. Most rehabilitation works would be carried out by contractors that would be procured
through competition in line with relevant Bank procurement guidelines. Based on contributions from a
WUA and WUA support unit, the PIU would submit a report to the IDA that summarizes the process
of each WUA establishment and initial strengthening and WUA member participation in the selection of
rehabilitation works, the description, cost estimate and financial analysis of the selected rehabilitation
works and the environmental considerations. This report would form the basis for IDA's approval of
the rehabilitation works for a particular WUA.
During project preparation rehabilitation works have been selected and implemented in four
pilot farns. As the funds for rehabilitation were limited, the actual impact on the farm has been
limited. The WUAs determined the rehabilitation works and, together with consultant engineers that
were hired by the PIU, prepared designs and bidding documents. The WUA Board and management
staff was involved in the procurement process and assisted the consultant engineers in supervision. A
WUA representative signed off each contractor's invoice before it was submitted to the PIU for
payment. The lessons learned from this process have been useful and similar procedures would be
followed under the OIP.
- 13-



Ministry of Environmental Protection: Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) have to be
prepared for the rehabilitation works. The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) has to receive
these EIAs and design documentation for possible review by the State Ecological Expertise (SEE). It
has been agreed with the MEP that the PIU would submit a semi-annual list of schemes for which
rehabilitation is scheduled, with an indication of the planned works. Based on this information, MEP
would decide what information it requires. Similar type works in different schemes may be grouped
together and simple type of works may not need SEE. Raion based inspectors of the MEP would
provide environmental monitoring during and after the rehabilitation works (see also Section E.5).
Project Oversight
An Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee (ICC) has been established for the IRP. This ICC
has also been mandated to review OIP implementation progress, provide guidance to project management
and resolve problems of inter-agency coordination. The Committee would meet semi-annually or more
frequently as required. It is currently composed of representatives of the MAWR, Ministry of Finance,
State Committee on Foreign Investment and Economic Development, Administration of the Prime Minister,
MEP and PIU. Representatives of regional offices and WUAs could be invited as needed.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The overall responsibility for financial management of the
project will rest with the PIU. The PIU already includes two accountants, which is likely to be sufficient
for the needs of the OIP as well. However, additional accountants would be recruited as required during
project implementation. The Association conducted a financial management assessment of the PIU and
concluded that the financial management arrangements satisfy the Association's minimum requirements.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): The formats of the PMRs were agreed upon during
negotiations and are included within the PIP. The PIU will produce the full set of PMRs for every calendar
quarter throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending June 30, 2001, however, PMRs
TA (Project Sources and Uses of Funds) and 1B (Uses of Funds by Project Activity) will be produced for
every calendar quarter beginning with the period ending December 31, 2000. Project funds will be initially
disbursed under the Association's established procedures. A move to PMR-based disbursements will be
made at the mutual agreement of the Government and the Association and will be considered once the PIU
is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and
reliable project management information. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by
December 31, 2001.
Audit Arrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Association and on terms of reference acceptable to the Association are already being satisfactorily
performed in respect of the other IDA-financed projects for whose financial management the PIU is
currently responsible. The contract for these audits is automatically renewable subject to satisfactory
performance and will therefore be extended in scope, subject to satisfactory performance, to include the
OIP for the year ending December 31, 2000. This will allow for consistency and make sure that through
one audit there will be an overview of the whole financial situation of all IDA projects under the
management of the PIU. After the completion of the IRP in 2004, services for audits until completion of
the OIP would be newly procured through Least-Cost Selection. The results of the audit of the OIP will be
available within six months of the end of every fiscal year and the cost of the audit will be financed by the
credit.
- 14 -



Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting
Monitoring and Evaluation: M&E would be important, as the results of M&E would feed into
post-project WUA development activities. A M&E system will be designed for this project, which will be
based, as a minimum, on the logical framework presented in Annex 1. The PIU's M&E specialist will
monitor project inputs, outputs and impacts, based on PIU, WUA support units and MAWR records as
well as field surveys. For the project impacts this would include cross-sectional surveys, in which
non-participating farm areas will be surveyed as well.
Reporting: The PIU would prepare quarterly progress reports, which would include information
on: (i) procurement; (ii) completion rate of ongoing tasks; (iii) payments made to contractors; (iv)
institutional development, including training; (v) updated performance indicators; (vi) difficulties
encountered, proposed measures to overcome these and assistance required; (vii) updated project cost
estimates, procurement plan and implementation schedule; and (viii) compliance with the agreed
Environmental Management Plan.
An assurance has been obtained that latest by January 31, 2001, the Borrower will open a Project
Account in an eligible commercial bank, deposit an initial amount equivalent to US$ 25,000 and afterwards
maintain the Project Account and replenish with sufficient funds for the adequate financing of the
counterpart contribution to project expenditures. The PIU would prepare an annual budget for project
implementation latest by August 31 each year for submission to the Association for its review, before
submitting the budget proposal to the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the PIU would submit not later than
November 30 of each year to the Association a work program for the next year.
Training and study tours shall be carried out according to a training plan, which the PIU will revise
semi-annually and submit to the Association for approval prior to implementation.
Government would prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the IDA, on or about June 30,
2003, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out
the measures reconmmended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievements of its
objectives. The report would be reviewed with the IDA, by September 30, 2003. Further, a project
implementation completion report would be prepared by the PIU within six months of project completion.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Transfer of Irrigation Systems: Different options for the size of the command area to be managed
by the WUAs have been considered. The WUAs could either take management responsibility for the
command area of the former state and collective farms, which were well-bounded administrative areas often
coinciding, however, with a lower order hydraulic unit, or the management of at least part of the higher
order irrigation system could also be transferred to larger WUAs and/or federated WUAs. Considering the
complete novelty of WUAs and users participation in irrigation management, it was opted to first of all
develop strong and sustainable WUAs at the level of the former farms, the management of which is
currently in a vacuum. Only then should transfer of inter-farm and main systems be considered, which
would also mean a considerable change in the mandate of the DWR. At the moment it is not advisable for
the DWR to hand over infrastructure to an organization that is not capable of operating and maintaining it
properly, therefore the option to transfer higher order infrastructure to WJUAs was rejected.
- 15-



Financing of Rehabilitation Works: It was considered to request the beneficiaries to repay 100
percent of the costs of the rehabilitation works, with the repayment denominated in US$, which means that
the beneficiaries would take the foreign exchange risk. Concerning the percentage of the costs to be repaid,
three socio-economic field surveys carried out in 1999 by IDA and ADB strongly suggest that the farmers
would find it difficult to repay a substantial proportion of the rehabilitation works of the on-farm systems,
in addition to financing the O&M of the irrigation system under the management of the WUA and the part
of the off-farm O&M that the State budget would not cover.
Unrealistic users contributions to the repayment of capital investments could result in minimum
borrowing under the project, which would lead to the continuing deterioration of on-farm systems. (This
was-a major conclusion from the EU/TACIS funded Regional Agricultural Reform Project (completed in
1998), which found that many farms were unwilling to take on the burden of full cost recovery on
investments. It was found to be unreasonable that full financial responsibility for the large back-log of
rehabilitation needs be transferred to users, most of whom recently became independent farmer.) In the
long run, this would result in systems going out of profitable production, which in turn would affect the
country's tax base, GDP and maybe even its food security.
In order to guarantee the long-term sustainability of the country's irrigation infrastructure, the
WUAs to be established under the OIP should eventually be expected to finance the full O&M costs of
both the on- and off-farm irrigation systems on a regular basis. The financing of these costs should be
given priority over any possible repayment of the rehabilitation costs since there is not much point in
rehabilitating schemes if their O&M is not secured. These arguments were accepted by Government and it
was agreed to limit the users contribution to repayment of investment costs to a maximum of 25 percent,
with the repayment contributions conmnencing after the completion of rehabilitation and to be paid over
seven years with a grace period of four years. This grace period would allow the water users to first of all
raise their contributions to O&M to an adequate level. The ADB funded AADP has similar repayment
principles. Repayments would go into an irrigation fund, to be managed by the DWR and to be used for
new borrowings for irrigation rehabilitation.
WUA Support Units: The support to WUAs as envisaged under the OIP would be an additional
mandate of the DWR. It was considered to establish the WUA support units staffed with local consultants
on contract basis for the duration of the project, as is currently the case in many projects. This was
rejected as there is a need for a pennanent capacity to support and strengthen WUAs, considering the fact
that the project is expected to work with only around 30 percent of the potential WUAs in the country.
Discussions were held with some Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) during project preparation to
determine whether they could participate in project activities. There are no specialized NGOs in the
country, but their participation in for example training courses has not been excluded.
In order to develop the long-term internal capacity to support WUAs, the support units should be
incorporated into the regular line structure of the DWR. The project would plan and operate towards
inclusion of the WUA support units' specialists within the structure of the DWR at the end of project
implementation. It was therefore agreed to remunerate support unit experts with salaries that are only
slightly above current DWR salary levels, realizing that a small incentive would be needed to attract
qualified specialists. The proposed salaries for central WUA staff are US$ 100 per month, for oblasts
specialists US$ 80 and for raion specialists US$ 60. The ongoing civil service reform process may have an
impact on the overall staff levels of the DWR and a careful analysis of the necessary skills needed in the
DWR at all levels would have to be made during the project, with the aim of creating vacancies for WUA
support unit staff by converting less needed positions to avoid a net increase of DWR staff.
- 16-



Maintenance Equipment and Machinery: The DWR initially requested to include a component in
the project to provide WUAs with maintenance equipment and machinery, at full cost recovery level. After
discussion it was agreed to exclude such a component from the project for the following reasons: (i) the
WUAs' financial situation is so weak that very few, if any, would be able to repay the equipment and
machinery; (ii) in the exceptional case where a WUA would be willing to purchase a piece of maintenance
equipment, the IDA funded Rural Finance Project has a provision for medium term loans; (iii) the WUA
command areas are generally too small for WUA owned maintenance equipment and machinery; and (iv)
there is already an active private civil works contractor sector that has demonstrated its capability to carry
out construction and maintenance works at competitive prices.
WUAs would be able to borrow some funds for the purchase of small equipment. It is expected
that borrowing will not exceed US$ 10,000 per WUA. Based on requests from WUAs the PIU would
procure such goods. Repayment would be done simultaneously with the repayment of the rehabilitation
investment costs, with similar terms, except that repayment would be at 100 percent. The repayments
would be paid into a fund that would be used for new borrowings for goods.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSRI Ratings
_(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Deteriorating main and inter-farm  hkrigation Rehabilitation Project  S          S
irrigation infrastructure        (Credit No. 30630)
Unsustainable flood protection    Flood Emergency Project          S             S
infrastructure and irrigation headworks (Credit No. 31660)
Lack of rural finance             Rural Finance Project (Credit    S             S
No. 29590)
Lack of agricultural support services to Agricultural Support Services  U        S
farrners                          Project (Credit No. 30620)
Land reform and distribution rights    Land and Real Estate
Registration Project (proposed
FY00 project)
Other development agencies
Lack of agricultural support and farm   Chui Area Agricultural
restructuring                     Development Project (ADB; to
start)
Lack of water users organizations  Pilot Project for Institutional
Development of WUAs (ADB;
completed)
- 17-



Restructuring of MAWR                TA for MAWR restructuring
(ADB; completed)
Deteriorating irrigation infrastructure   Regional Agricultural Reform
Project 2 (EU; completed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from ongoing project implementation in the Kyrgyz Republic and other Former Soviet
Union (FSU) countries suggests that project scope and design should be simple in view of the country's
limited implementation and coordination capacity. A project should have few components and be focused
on one or few major activities. In addition, projects to be undertaken in rapidly changing circumstances
and with limited reliable information should be designed to be suitably flexible at implementation. Projects
should foster the understanding among national staff of the need to ensure the participation of all
stakeholders, particularly beneficiaries, at implementation.
Relevant lessons from ADB's project implementation in the rural sector include: (i) competent and
efficient local management staff is necessary to ensure the viability and sustainability of a project; and (ii)
the fact that the Government is often reluctant to borrow for foreign consulting services can jeopardize
effective implementation.
Worldwide experience in the irrigation sub-sector suggests that in order to get away from the
vicious cycle caused by the lack of investment and maintenance, poor irrigation service, fanner
dissatisfaction, low rates of ISF collection, resulting in even less maintenance, projects should combine a
mix of physical rehabilitation and upgrading, user participation, improved financial performance and
attention to O&M. Effective irrigation projects should be as much concerned about the policy and
institutional aspects of a project as about physical infrastructure.
Implementation experience in the irrigation sub-sector shows that projects should: (i) help countries
and beneficiaries make selective investments for rehabilitation and improvements, with a careful assessment
of the needs to make sure that all priority constraints to improved water service are being addressed; (ii)
assist irrigation agencies and water users in improving their water management capabilities; (iii) help
countries develop or strengthen their legal and institutional framework for managing water resources and
promoting user participation and management; (iv) assist in enhancing cost-sharing programs so that water
users have access to reliable services and pay ISF that should be sufficient to carry out adequate O&M; (v)
concentrate on management transfer before system improvements; and (vi) help countries design the
delivery of agricultural services so that they complement the irrigation irnprovement efforts.
Lessons from countries such as Mexico and China where O&M of higher order irrigation systems
has been transferred to users has shown that WUA support units at the provincial and district irrigation
department level facilitate institutional changes, especially when these units work effectively with the
WUAs as clients rather than as dependencies as in the past. The WlUA support units within DWR should
eventually become a part of the existing organization structure. This will also be important due to the fact
that over time it is possible for the raion irrigation departments to become part of federations of WUAs,
joint stock companies or some other type of water supply companies, while the DWR would limit itself to
overall water policy and planning.
- 18-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During the preparation of the IRP, senior government officials, in particular the Minister of the
MAWR, already requested a follow-up project that would focus on rehabilitation and institutional
development within the boundary of former state and collective farms. Senior Government officials have
shown considerable interest in the progress with and have also been involved during project preparation of
the OIP. There has been senior government participation in two workshops that focused on project
preparation, in particular WUA development. The Government has already instructed that the PIU of the
IRP and FEP will also implement the OIP and AADP, not only for cost-effectiveness purposes, but also to
achieve a uniform approach towards irrigation development among different donors and projects.
A principal indication of Government commitment lies in the resolution on WUAs in rural areas
that was approved by the Prime Minister on August 17, 1997 and the subsequent request to IDA to assist
Government in the preparation of a WUA law and review of other water related laws. Farmers have also
shown early commitment through the establishment of about 90 WUAs since the passing of the 1997
resolution, for which they have received help for DWR staff as an activity under the project preparation
Grant.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank would bring to the project considerable experience in the implementation of similar
projects world wide, including an increasing number in the region. The Bank is involved in countries such
as Albania, Armenia, Mexico and Turkey, that are credited with best practices of participatory
development of the irrigation sub-sector, and has a wealth of relevant information available through
Knowledge Management web-sites and the Public Information Center. The project would also: (i)
incorporate appropriate economic and technical criteria into the planning and design process; (ii) introduce
competitive procurement procedures; (iii) improve construction quality control; and (iv) incorporate
environmental measures.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
3 Cost benefit    NPV=US$29.6 million; ERR = 36 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The overall Economic (internal) Rate of Return (ERR) of the project is difficult to estimate given
the built-in flexibility of its investment program, based on a demand-driven approach. For illustrative
purposes, ERRs were calculated on a per hectare basis for four models of rehabilitation works derived from
two scenarios. Scenario A is assuming that only on-farm system rehabilitation works will be necessary, i.e.
the corresponding off-farm irrigation infrastructure is already functioning properly and is reasonably well
maintained (this would be true for areas that have benefited from the IRP). Scenario B is assuming that
some inter-farm (off-farm) rehabilitation works will still be necessary for the off-farm irrigation
infrastructure to function properly. Each scenario was considered in the North as well as in the South of
the country.
The main working assumptions are as follows: (i) in the "without project" situation, a gradual
deterioration of the irrigation systems will take place, resulting in an overall yield decline of 1 percent per
year (alternatively, system deterioration could result in a reduction of the cropped area, which is assumed
- 19-



to have the same result); (ii) in the "with project" situation, a 20 percent yield increase would occur for the
water users directly benefiting from the rehabilitation works - which are assumed to cover around half the
command area - thus the overall average yield increase for all the water users in the area would be 10
percent., based on a 10 percent increase in distribution efficiency that would make available about 10 to 15
percent more water to the crops; (iii) import parity prices were estimated for wheat, maize and urea, and an
export parity price for cotton (one of the country's main export products in processed form); (iv) for
produce other than wheat, maize, urea and cotton, the market prices are considered acceptable proxies of
their economic values; (v) the national currency is floating relatively freely and does not need
shadow-pricing; (vi) all prices and costs (including parity prices) are kept in constant values of 1999; and
(vii) unskilled labor is shadow-priced at 60 percent of the daily wages.
The proposed project comprises a large number of rehabilitation works to distribution systems
within the boundaries of former state and collective farns, and in addition, rehabilitation of inter-farm
works between a number of project farms. The rehabilitation of the infrastructure would take away a
critical constraint to agricultural production. The timely availability of water in adequate quantities would
give the farmers confidence to use more inputs and to produce a wider range of higher value crops with
better quality. However, as this would depend also on the success of other agricultural projects under
implementation, current cropping patterns have been considered for this analysis.
The ERRs for three models range from 20 percent to 58 percent over 20 years, depending on the
model. One model, the rehabilitation of both inter-farm and distribution systems in the North of the
country is economically unviable under the current assumptions.
The sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERRs are all more sensitive to income (sales or output)
shortfalls than to cost overruns. On the cost side, the ERRs are all more sensitive to overruns in the
investment costs than in the O&M costs.
The overall ERR for the total rehabilitation works would be 42 percent. Using an average
opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent, the overall Net Present Value (NPV) over 20 years for the total
rehabilitation works would be US$ 201 per hectare or US$ 32.2 million for 160,000 ha. The component
"WUA Development Services" (20 percent of the total project cost) must be considered as a long-term
investment having an overall impact well beyond the scope of the OIP since the DWR should eventually
help establish enough WUAs - perhaps as many as 500 - to cover most of the irrigated areas of the country.
Consequently, only part of the cost of this component should be attributed to the OIP. Adding half of the
component cost to the project rehabilitation costs plus the full implementation support cost would keep the
OIP's overall ERR at a still attractive level of 36 percent with an overall NPV of US$ 29.6 million.
It is estimated that the incremental wheat production with project - the main irrigated crop - would
represent less than 3 percent of the 1999 national production. Problems of market availability are therefore
not expected.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 17.7 million; FRR = 28 % (see Annex 4)
In addition to technical considerations, financial criteria must be developed and systematically
applied for the selection of the irrigation infrastructure to be rehabilitated. It is imperative to keep the
criteria simple so that it can be used easily and with transparency; for instance, the calculation of economic
returns would perhaps be preferable to financial ones, but would require more value judgments (mainly in
converting financial prices into economic ones) and would make the PIU more vulnerable to "outside"
- 20 -



pressure. The financial criteria must ensure that: (i) a minimum level of net returns can be expected from
rehabilitation, given the limited availability of funds; and (ii) the water users can pay for their share of the
O&M costs (off-farm as well as on-farm) plus the partial repayment of the rehabilitation cost. The
calculation of a Financial (internal) Rate of Return (FRR) for each self-contained set of works - with a
preset cut-off (minimum) point - would meet the first condition and the calculation of crop budgets would
meet the second condition. The calculation of crop budgets is particularly important because a substantial
part of the farm production is not monetized; for example it is used for home consumption, for buying in
kind new agricultural inputs and paying in kind all types of taxes and fees. Consequently, a high FRR does
not necessarily mean that there is a large cash flow available at the farm level.
FRRs were calculated for the same four models as for the ERRs and with the same yield
assumptions. The results confirm that under these assumptions Scenario B in the North (rehabilitation of
both distribution and inter-farm infrastructure) would clearly not be financially viable and that, therefore,
such works should not be undertaken. Scenario A in the North yields an acceptable FRR of 7 percent over
20 years and both Scenario A and Scenario B in the South yield attractive FRRs of respectively 42 percent
and 19 percent.
Fiscal Impact:
In addition to the Specific Investment Loan which will increase the Government's borrowing by
US$ 20 million, the Government will have to actually disburse an estimated US$ 1.5 million in counterpart
funds during project implementation (all following amounts are in US$ of Year 2000). To this must be
added US$ 4.8 million in foregone taxes which bring the Government's total counterpart contribution to
US$ 6.3 million. In return, the Government will collect from the water users the equivalent of US$ 4
million in repayments of part of the rehabilitation costs. Even when converted into current terms, this could
probably more than compensate for the initial cash outlay of US$ 1.5 million.
After project completion, the DWR will have to finance the equivalent of about US$ 320,000 per
year in recurrent costs for the WUA support units established under the project. In addition the DWR will
have to finance the full O&M on the off-farm infrastructure corresponding to the 160,000 ha of on-farm
infrastructure rehabilitated. At full project development, the necessary annual amount is estimated at US$
2.4 million. This amount represents less than half of the DWR's Year 2000 budget and could therefore
theoretically be covered each year by DWR's regular budget, which would mean, however, that other
infrastructure would receive even less funds for O&M. It will thus be important that as soon as possible,
the WUAs should take over the financing of the O&M of the off-farm in addition to that of the on-farm
infrastructure. For 160,000 ha, the Government would then benefit from a saving of up to US$ 2.4 million
per year, which would more than compensate for the US$ 320,000 in recurrent costs for the WUA support
units. The long-term fiscal impact of the project is therefore expected to be positive.
3. Technical:
Three diagnostic surveys were carried out in Chui, Jalal-Abad and Osh oblasts by
multi-disciplinary teams comprising expertise in engineering, agronomy, sociology and economy. During
the surveys of nine farms the engineers held extensive discussions with DWR oblast and raion irrigation
engineers, WUA chairmen and water users. Problems of deteriorating irrigation infrastructure were
observed, analyzed and costed. The main requirements would be to reinstate canal networks and water
control structures to increase distribution efficiencies and allow reliable and timely distribution of water.
At field level improvements in water management practices would be needed. The O&M needs were also
determined and costed. Investment costs to take away at least the priority constraints to improved water
- 21 -



distribution would be scheme specific, based on users demands, but are expected to vary from US$ 30 to
USS 115 per ha, with an average of around US$ 75 per ha (before Value Added Tax and contingencies).
Management and O&M costs would also be scheme specific, but have been calculated to be around US$
10.00 per ha for the area under the management of the WUA and US$ 15.00 per ha for main and
inter-farm systems that are under the management of the DWR.
To arrive at the cost estimates, unit costs were used that are based on the experience with a large
number of sub-projects under the IRP and FEP. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included in
the costs estimates for the civil works. Prevailing price contingencies for local and foreign costs have been
included as well. Also, as the project follows a program approach, there will be flexibility to adjust for any
cost overruns by reducing the number of WUAs that can benefit from rehabilitation of infrastructure.
Most rehabilitation works would be well within the capacity of the local engineers and contractors
to implement. Under the IRP and FEP much more complicated works have been undertaken satisfactorily
from a technical point of view and also generally within agreed budget and implementation period. The
implementation of civil works directly by WUAs would not be preferred, as the current level of engineering
and contracting competence within the WUAs is generally inadequate, which could result in inferior
construction standards. Of course, certain works could be carried out by WUA members, e.g. small canal
cleaning. This would be encouraged under the project and if WUAs carry out such in-kind activities, these
would be considered as contributions towards the investment repayment.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Although the DWR has been hit by budget cuts during the past years, which has caused some staff
reductions, capable technical staff remain in higher positions at all administrative levels. These staff have
shown considerable interest in the activities proposed under the project and many have actively participated
during project preparation. There remains, however, a lack of experience with WUA development in the
country, for which the DWR would require assistance from experienced specialists in the field of WUA
development, finance, promotion and group formation. An important activity of such specialists would be
on-the-job training, so that they can work themselves out of a job and be replaced fully by their counterpart
staff in employment of WUA support units. Formal training activities and study tours planned under the
project would further enhance the knowledge of WUA support unit and DWR staff.
By June 30, 2003, Government will review options for DWR's future restructuring of the current
functions and activities and its staffing needs, including a plan for the complete integration of the WUA
support units into the structure of MAWR at the end of project implementation, where possible without an
increase in the total number of DWR employees.
4.2 Project management:
The PIU that is responsible for the day-to-day management of the IRP and FEP, would also be in
charge of the proposed project. It is currently fully staffed with national experts that have been recruited
on competitive basis. The PIU has, so far, performed satisfactorily and has been effective in project
management, including engineering review and procurement. Some problems have been experienced with
the development of a workable M&E system. It has been difficult to collect accurate impact data for the
sub-projects that have been completed under the IRP, especially agronomic data that have large variations
from farmer to farmer. The PIU is currently in the process of recruiting consultants to improve on these
- 22 -



activities. It would also be strengthened with M&E staff under the OIP, while funds would be available to
provide necessary training to all PIU staff involved in the implementation of the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Country Procurement Assessment was carried out in November 1997 and a report was issued on
April 15, 1998. Also during the preparation of the OIP an assessment of the capacity of the implementing
agency was made. Based on these assessments, it is concluded that Government has introduced competitive
and transparent public procurement procedures. It has an independent public procurement agency which
has as a major task ensuring effective implementation of the public procurement law. Nevertheless this is a
"high risk" country from the procurement point of view. There are two reasons for this: (i) it will take
some time before the provisions of the procurement law are translated into practice; and (ii) the economic
atmosphere in the country in which the law operates is not yet conducive to fair and transparent
procurement processes and improvements are required to achieve the law's essential objectives, i.e.
efficiency, economy, transparency and accountability.
In February 2000 a comprehensive post-review was carried out for the IRP and FEP in order to
provide an opinion on the performance of the PIU regarding procurement activities and contract
management. Although the PIU is relatively new with 1.5 years experience, the procurement activities,
including record keeping, are generally satisfactory. There is currently one procurement specialist and one
assistant. During 1999 a total of 29 contracts valued at over US$ 8 million were procured. No major
problems were identified. Much of the procurement related to NCB and Minor Works packages for
rehabilitation and reconstruction works.
In collaboration with the PIU an action plan to address deficiencies has been prepared to strengthen
PIU's capacity to administer procurement in an effective and transparent way. This plan is summarized in
Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within the Kyrgyz
Republic is currently a subject of review in conjunction with the Comprehensive Development Framework
(CDF) initiative, for which the Kyrgyz Republic is a pilot country. However, primarily because of other
implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the financial management capacity within
the Kyrgyz Republic have been mitigated for this project by the use of the IRP PIU for project
implementation, including financial management, drawing upon its experience of projects of this nature,
and of international auditors for the audit of the project. The specific weaknesses of the PIU in respect of
its financial management capacity are currently being addressed by an internationally recruited financial
management consultant, however, these weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the
Borrower nor of the Association.
Special Account: In November, 1999, IDA updated its assessment of the Kyrgyz banking sector
and concluded that a small number of banks did not meet IDA's eligibility criteria to house IDA projects'
Special Accounts. Government and IDA continue to monitor the performance of the banking sector and
have reached agreement with some of the ineligible banks on the steps required to achieve full eligibility in
order to increase the number of banks from which to choose. The PIJ will open a Special Account in one
of the available eligible banks.
- 23 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project would finance the rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation infrastructure. No
new canals or structures that would allow increase in the delivery capacity of water are envisaged. The
proposed project does not include any investments in dams or involve resettlement. It has therefore been
classified as Category "B" for the purpose of OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment.
A Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) was carried out in 1997 during the preparation of the
IRP. The SEA identified the following positive environmental impacts from the implementation of
irrigation and drainage projects: (i) reduction of water losses through improved O&M; and (ii) reduced risk
of soil salinization, waterlogging and standing water from improved drainage. Potential negative impacts
of irrigation projects are: (i) increased agrochemical pollution and surface water contamination, resulting
from projected increased use of pesticides and fertilizers along with improved availability of irrigation
water and possibly increased volumes of drainage water in drains and rivers; (ii) soil erosion associated
with existing practices of water management and agricultural production; (iii) indiscriminate dumping of
excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the canals, drains and structures during construction
and maintenance; and (iv) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction activities.
There has been no specific examination of the environmental impact of project farms during project
preparation. Project farns are not known at this point in time and selection would to a large extent be
demand-driven, depending on readiness and willingness of water users to participate in project activities.
Most of them would, however, be located in comnmand areas that were identified under the IRP.
On May 13, 1999, a new law on environmental protection and a law on ecological expertise were
approved. All civil works, including rehabilitation, would have to be assessed on ecological impact and
mitigation, and have to be reviewed by the MEP. During the design stage of the works for each project
farm all possible environmental factors would be reviewed by the design engineers. Necessary mitigating
measures would be integral parts of design and implementation. The MEP would have the option to carry
out a State Ecological Expertise for each or a cluster of similar works. Environmental monitoring during
and after construction would be carried out by raion inspectors of the MEP.
During the preparation of the IRP notification of riparian countries took place, in accordance with
OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. No expressions of concern were received. The OIP would
complement the IRP through the rehabilitation of irrigation distribution systems, which would allow a
better use of the delivered water within the forner state and collective farms. Many project farms are
expected to be in the command areas identified under the IRP. The proposed works under the OIP would
not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows, while the works would not change the nature of
the original systems or alter or expand the scope and extent as to create a new or different scheme. The
Development Credit Agreement has as eligibility criteria for farm participation that there will be no
irrigation of new areas or expansion of existing irrigation infrastructure that would allow water abstraction
above current design limits.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared. The final Plan has been annexed
to the Project Implementation Plan and has been made available to the Infoshop in March 2000. It is also
available in the head office of MEP in Bishkek. The Plan describes the mitigation measures for the
- 24 -



potential negative impacts that are described in the previous section. The mitigation of identified item (i)
described above would be addressed by RADS consultants, who will provide extension and advisory
services, as well as training in proper application techniques and timing and handling of residues of
fertilizers and pesticides. As inputs would not anymore be available at subsidized prices as during the time
of the FSU, the actual use of pesticides, chemicals and fertilizers is not expected to reach the high levels as
before Independence. This more careful use of fertilizers and chemicals and the extension and advisory
services is expected to keep the negative impact of increased input use to a minimum. Regular monitoring
of drainage and river water would be carried out by the MEP. Problems with drainage water quality would
be addressed jointly by RADS and WUA support unit staff. They would provide regular formal training
and intermittent advice at farm level in improved irrigation management practices, aiming at supply and use
of water in the right quantities at the right time, not only for crop production but also for leaching during
the off-season, where needed. Thus the increase in drainage flow should be minimum, which would keep
the negative impact to a minimum.
Item (ii) would be addressed jointly by RADS and WJUA support unit staff. They would provide
training and advice in improved irrigation and water management practices, which would reduce soil
erosion within irrigation schemes and subsequently reduce the environmental impact of sedimentation on
rivers. (It is noted that most soil erosion takes place upstream of the irrigation schemes, which the project
will not address, but which will be reviewed during an ongoing Natural Resources Management Study.)
Items (iii) and (iv) would be addressed during design and supervision. Contractors would be
required to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris would be
displaced in an orderly manner, rather than dumped indiscriminately. There would be reuse of suitable
excavated materials, limiting the need for old and new quarries and borrow pits. Where possible, existing
quarries and pits would be used for required additional materials. Contractors would also have to restore
to quasi-original condition the landscape after completion of rehabilitation works and after use of quarries
and pits. The bidding documents would have environmental precautionary clauses.
The Environmental Management Plan also describes the environmental monitoring arrangements.
The MEP would be the main monitoring agency. Its specialists and inspectors will be responsible for the
timely monitoring of the agreed environmental indicators (see Section 5.5 below). It will also provide State
Ecological Expertise to the rehabilitation proposals and engineering designs. Although mainly a monitoring
agency, MEP will also participate in supervision of the rehabilitation works, with emphasis on the
environmental parameters, such as dumping soil, alignment of roads and tree cutting. It has been ensured
that the Plan is adequately costed.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 2000
The Sector Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan are available in the
Infoshop and are also available for public review in the MEP in Bishkek.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Public workshops have been conducted in Bishkek and Osh during the preparation of the Sector
Environmental Assessment in 1997.
- 25 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The monitoring arrangements are as follows: (i) pesticide, chemical and fertilizer levels would be
measured in the drainage water at the downstream end of the project farms. Measurements would take
place three times per irrigation season (March, May and September) by raion based staff of the MEP.
They would analyze the samples with portable field kits. International thresholds would be used that would
signal need for corrective actions. Drainage water samples would also be taken by raion based staff of the
MEP in January, May and September to measure the salinity level of the drainage water. Thresholds
would relate to WHO recommendations. If the quality level of the drainage water in the drains is
consistently below WHO and other intemational norms, MEP's inspectors would take samples from the
rivers into which the drainage water is discharged. If the river water is also above the allowable norms for
longer periods, corrective measures would have to be implemented. These would include increased training
and extension activities and possibly reductions in the use of inputs; (ii) MEP inspectors would measure
soil erosion, especially in those farms where this has been a problem in the past. Measurements would take
place halfway and at the end of the irrigation season. If the level of soil erosion reaches levels where it
would cause damage to river systems and downstream irrigation systems, training efforts would be
intensified; and (iii) contractors activities would be supervised by the PIU engineers and WUA support unit
engineers and monitored by raion-based MEP inspectors. Any damage done by a contractor to the
environment would have to be rectified at the expense of the contractor.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social development objectives of the project are to sustain and increase incomes in rural areas
of the Kyrgyz Republic by helping farmers organize themselves to manage and maintain their irrigation
systems and by undertaking essential rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. The practical goal is to
empower water users on former state and collective farms to manage and maintain their irrigation
infrastructure to assure equitable, efficient, sustainable and mutually beneficial use of the water that is
delivered to them. The mechanisms for empowerment are WUAs, which will be promoted and strengthened
by a network of WUA support units at the national, oblast and raion levels. The privatization of state and
collective farms has left the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems either in an organizational
limbo or under the domination of managers of the former state and collective farms. In most cases, the
result has been growing inequity, social fragmentation and the sacrifice of common interests to private
ones. The anticipated social development outcomes are increased local organizational capacity, increased
social cohesion and increased equity in access to water and the economic benefits of irrigation.
Although WUAs have been created and function in many different countries, Kyrgyz Republic and
other newly independent states of the FSU present special challenges, as well as opportunities. In most
settings, WUAs are created when new irrigation systems are developed or when existing ones are
rehabilitated or transferred to water users. In these cases, the WUAs are designed to establish new
relationships between users themselves or between users and the irrigation authority. In Kyrgyz Republic,
however, the need is to modify relationships between existing water users and between water users and the
DWR.
On the system level, the privatization of former state and collective farms has restructured
relationships, creating new cadres of farmers and farming groups, generally parallel to continued
functioning of a remnant of the former state or collective farm. In some cases, this means the virtual
- 26 -



collapse of a previous water management structure and all users are affected by the volatile and unreliable
arrangements that often emerge, as well as the resulting deterioration of the system. In other cases,
management of the remnant of the former farm maintains control over water management of a deteriorating
system and deals with the needs of other new users in an arbitrary or patronizing manner. On the off-farm
system level, DWR maintains its traditional responsibilities as much as possible, albeit with reduced
budget, on one hand, and expanded to include collecting water service fees, on the other hand. Thus,
despite mutual good will, relationships between the DWR and water users are now sometimes characterized
by indifference and lack of confidence or by a nascent resentment by water users who now pay a irrigation
service fee that does not necessarily translate into improved service. This is not to say that the task of
creating WUAs is more difficult in Kyrgyz Republic than elsewhere, but rather that the challenges are
different and therefore require new approaches.
Several pieces of social analysis and field-level piloting during project preparation provided
valuable insights that have guided final design. An initial rapid social assessment identified many of the
challenges facing water users and described a number of organizational pattems, essentially formal and
informal coping mechanisms, that are emerging from privatization. Almost concurrently, various efforts
were underway to encourage the creation of WUAs, creating a base of experience that has been very
valuable. Subsequently, a number of these WUAs were visited over the last 1.5 years in the course of two
rapid social and institutional assessments carried out by social science consultants, generally as part of
joint social and technical assessments.
The assessments reached five principal conclusions. First, WUAs or some other type of inclusive
organization is needed on the farm level to provide a social structure for water management to fill the void
created by privatization and restructuring. Water users easily articulate this need, particularly in the
context of dispute resolution. Second, it appears rather easy to create WUA, at least on paper, particularly
if they are seen as conduits for extemal resources. That is, there is little opposition to WUAs, in principle,
from old farm managers, new farmers or officials. Third, in the absence of WUAs, managers of the
unrestructured remnants of the former farms generally manage the system for their own benefit, frequently
ignoring the needs of new units that resulted from restructuring. Moreover, they frequently dominate
WVUAs as well, based on their expertise, managerial capacity and experience, and their residual power and
influence. Fourth, the WUAs that have been established are thus both simple and fragile, tending to be
more exclusive than inclusive and less independent than needed if they are to serve all members. Fifth, the
promise of WUAs is also limited by the lack of a secure legal basis and the existence of tax and other
financial provisions which discourage sound financial planning. Similar general lessons also emerged from
Kyrgyz experiences with group credit schemes.
The implications of these findings and conclusions have been integrated into the basic design of the
project to empower WUAs on several major dimensions:
*   Autonomy/Accountability - legislation for legal recognition and financial authority;
*   Cohesion/Transparency - field support to organize participatory WUAs to ensure that the interests
of all water users are protected;
*   Legitimacy - a permanent institutional mechanism to provide both technical and social support for
the development and strengthening of WUAs; and
*   Competence - specialized training to enable WUA members to carry out their current
responsibilities efficiently and effectively and prepare them for expanded roles in the future.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 27 -



The project has five principal stakeholder groups: (i) water users; (ii) the DWR, which manages
off-farm infrastructure and water deliveries; (iii) administrative officials at different levels; (iv) other
agencies and private sector enterprises engaged in different aspects of agriculture in Kyrgyz Republic; and
(v) private sector contractors. Each set of stakeholders has participated in project design and will have
important roles in project implementation as their functions evolve.
Irrigation water users are the primary beneficiaries of the project. The challenge and overall
participation objective in the project is to empower the target group, water users, to take charge of their
irrigation systems through WUAs. The objective is to develop the capacity and the structure of WUAs to
manage on-farm irrigation infrastructure and irrigation water efficiently and effectively and, ultimately, to
assume responsibility and ownership for off-farm infrastructure as well. Although the project is ultimately
an investment operation, project design and resources focus heavily on establishing a sound institutional
framework for the investment. It gives first priority to building local associations and strengthening local
technical and management capacity in order to direct and ensure that the investments are sound and project
impacts are sustainable. The objective is attainable and the project is designed to make major contributions
to the process of empowering water users by: helping create an enabling legal structure; supporting WUA
formation and developing appropriate training and support mechanisms for the associations; and by
establishing a permanent cadre of professionals who offer support for institutional and technical aspects of
irrigated agriculture in Kyrgyz Republic. Project preparation has involved intensive consultation (CON)
with target groups, which will continue and proceed to more active collaboration (COL) and empowerment
(EMP).
The project will be an important agent to change the role and functioning of both the DWR and of
water users, ultimately developing partnerships between them. DWR and its implementing entities will
largely be in the driver's seat, promoting and managing many aspects of its transformation from a rather
centralized administrative and regulatory institution into a more decentralized technical support resource.
Its participation strategy will move from information sharing (IS) and consultation (CON), largely
supply-driven, to active demand-driven collaboration (COL).
Local officials and agencies and projects in the agriculture sector will be active collaborators
(COL) in project implementation, coordinating their activities and sharing experiences and lessons as they
emerge. This collaboration is expected to help close existing gaps and mismatches between farmers needs
and the structure and scale of institutions in the sector. Likewise, local contractors will participate in the
project as collaborators (COL), offering technically sound and timely services to project participants,
especially the WUAs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
On site consultations have been carried out in a number of possible project sites during project
preparation, particularly in the pilot sites that have benefited from modest rehabilitation investments.
These consultations have included existing organizations, such as farmer groups and water user
associations, local administrations, the administration of the remnants of former state and collective farms
and other members of the respective communities. Few sites have identifiable civil society organizations
and none of the sites had active local NGOs. During implementation, a rapid community assessment will
be undertaken in each prospective site to identify local stakeholder groups and engage them in discussions
relating to the structure and functioning of WIUAs and other community needs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
-28 -



development outcomes?
The core of the project is the development of active, competent, viable and sustainable WUAs who
will articulate their need for rehabilitation investments and assume responsibility for determining the nature
of the rehabilitation, overseeing the implementation process and maintaining the rehabilitated system. The
project will create district-level offices that help organize WUAs and provide ongoing support to them.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The rapid community assessments will establish a baseline in each participating community
regarding the level of social cohesion, equity in distribution of water and the status and capability of the
local WUA or other organization or groups involved in irrigation operation and maintenance. The
indicators will be updated on an annual basis to ascertain progress and identify new issues that emerge.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     APPiEcability
Eli Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          O Yes El No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   El Yes O No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    El Yes Z No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     Ol Yes 1 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  L Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   OL Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             El Yes Z No
E Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               L Yes Z No
El Projects in Intemational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   ZK Yes E No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         El Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Development Credit Agreement includes a covenant calling for the implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan. IDA will review and approve the sub-projects from environmental
considerations and monitor the adherence to the EMP as part of its supervision activities.
- 29 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Adequate and regular maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure would be critical for the
sustainability of project benefits. Yet, the present situation concerning the financing of the O&M of the
main and inter-farm irrigation systems continues to be unsatisfactory. DWR's budget submission to
Parliament for 2000 was Som 400 million (US$ 8.9 million; which is in line with the agreed covenant under
the IRP, but less than estimated by the IDA during project preparation), of which about 30 percent would
be financed through a grant from the European Union and 11 percent from State budget resources.
Revenues from the irrigation service fees would have to account for 59 percent of the total requested
budget, based on an average charge of about 6 tiyin per m3, which is double the current tariff level.
Although the 2000 budget has been approved by Parliament, it has not made a decision on the increase in
ISF that would be needed. Assuming the existing charges of 3 tiyin per m3, DWR's Year 2000 budget
would be approximately Som 295 million. On the basis of an average O&M cost for the off-farm
infrastructure of US$ 15 per ha, the DWR could then fully operate and maintain about 400,000 ha or about
50 percent of the infrastructure under DWR's management responsibility.
The current situation with the O&M of on-farm irrigation infrastructure within the former state
and collective farms is even worse. Hardly any resources are generated by the users for O&M of the
infrastructure, resulting in its continuing deterioration. The project would put major emphasis on achieving
adequate O&M of the on-farm irrigation infrastructure. The O&M cost will be farn specific, but has been
estimated to average US$ 10.00 per ha. Although the full O&M cost will be determined already during the
time of rehabilitation, full payment of O&M would be phased in over four years. This phasing will take
into account the lower needs for maintenance during the first few years after rehabilitation and also the fact
that full incremental incomes will be achieved a few years after rehabilitation works have been completed.
The project would work with WUAs that are committed to full O&M and that would participate
according to the criteria that are described in Annex 2. Promotion and awareness campaigns under the
project would include the importance of paying the full ISF for the service provided by the DWR. The
proposed change from contracts between each user and the DWR to one contract between the WUA and the
DWR would simplify the collection of the ISF. A comprehensive financing plan ensuring the full O&M
funding would be developed for each participating WUA. These plans would include action programs for
the gradual taking over of the financing of all O&M costs by the WUAs. In the interim period, for the part
of the off-farm costs still under the responsibility of the DWR, the Ministry of Finance should commit itself
to sufficient budgetary allocations, as per agreed covenant under the IRP. For the past two years,
Government has presented to Parliament a budget for the DWR that is in line with the covenant and it is
committed to continue fulfilling this covenant in future. Now that a new parliament has been swom in,
Government should use this as an opportunity to renew the discussions with parliamentarians to set tariffs
at the needed levels or better to allow the DWR as service provider in close cooperation with the water
users to set the ISF, based on economics. Failure to do this will mean that needed maintenance will
continue to be deferred, which is not a satisfactory way of doing things and can lead to loss of irrigation for
various schemes, which would be disastrous for the farm communities involved. Government should
continue making Parliamentarians fully aware of this so that they understand the best way to help their
constituents over the long-term is through adequate water fees. Provisions to ensure appropriate tariff
setting will be included in the amended or new Water Law that will be presented to Parliament before June
30, 2001.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
- 30 -



Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Input of water only will not lead to       M         Water shortages do generally lead to reductions
increases in agricultural production;                in crop yield, especially if they occur during
critical growing periods. Farmers' training in
proper irrigation scheduling and water
management will be conducted by WUA support
units and RADS advisors, so that farmers will
be able to utilize the increased water availability
in their fields and avoid water stress;
Insufficient funds for O&M of main and      S        Under the IRP, Government has submitted and
inter-farm irrigation systems;                       is committed to continue to submit substantially
increased O&M budget proposals to Parliament.
Government continues a dialogue with
Parliarnentarians to approve adequate increases
in ISF. New Water Law will have provision for
adequate tariff setting, based on needs;
From Components to Outputs
Cost overruns during project                N         Costing has been based on actual prices charged
implementation;                                      under the IRP and FEP. OIP follows a program
approach, with flexibility of how many WUAs
can be assisted;
International and local project staff are  M          The short-list of consultants would be reviewed
not sufficiently competent and dedicated;             and approved by the IDA and all recruitment of
consultants would be based on competitive
procedures. An important task of the
international consultants would be on-the-job
training and knowledge transfer. National staff
would have necessary training opportunities;
The areas to be covered under the project  M          The project would be supervised closely by
are not selected in full accordance with             IDA. There would be close interaction with
agreed criteria and the farm members are             water users during the preparation and
not responding positively to the assistance           implementation stages and they would be
provided by the project;                             familiarized with the advantages of their
participation and their assuming responsibility
for irrigation management and investment;
The civil works are not carried out         N         The IRP has satisfactory experiences with local
efficiently and/or in a timely manner                 contractors. Where possible, procurement
because of a lack of competent                        packages should be combined to make the
contractors;                                          contracts more attractive for the bigger and
more experienced contractors;
- 31 -



Availability of counterpart financing;     S         Counterpart financing needs have been kept to a
minimum. Annual review of the counterpart
funds should be done in time and project staff
would have continuing discussions with MOF;
DWR unable to absorb WUA support           S         A detailed staffing plan for the DWR will be
units in its structure;                              prepared, which will aim at the development of a
budget neutral staff structure;
Governnent will discontinue support to     M         Government is determined to help rural people
the program of WUA development;                      and is preparing all necessary legislation to
facilitate this;
The full O&M for the command areas         M         An important activity of the OIP would be the
managed by the WUAs that have received               promotion of the concept of WUAs and the need
support from the OIP is not adequately               for adequate O&M that would be critical for the
financed by the water users;                         long-term sustainability of the infrastructure;
Overall Risk Rating                        5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Conditions ofproject effectiveness include:
o  The PIU is operational with structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition for disbursement for the Works category:
*   The rehabilitation works for each project farm have to be approved by the Association, which is
subject to satisfactory implementation of the criteria needed for a WUA to qualify for funding for
rehabilitation, as well as technical, economic and environmental criteria.
Management:
*   Government will maintain an Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee, composed of the First
Deputy Minister of MAWR (Chairman), the Deputy Minister of Finance, the First Deputy
Minister of Environmental Protection, the Advisor to the Department of Agricultural Development
of the Office of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Chief of the Donor Cooperation Unit of the Foreign
Investment Agency of the State Commission of Foreign Investment and Economic Development
and the Director of the PIU (Secretary); and
*   Throughout the implementation of the project, the PIU will be maintained with a sufficient number
of staff, consultants, adequate resources and termns of reference satisfactory to the Association.
- 32 -



Project Implementation
*   Each project farm will be selected in accordance with agreed procedures and eligibility criteria;
*   Rehabilitation works will be carried out in accordance with agreed terms and conditions;
*   Compliance of the project with the Environmental Management Plan;
*   Government will, not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the Association,
for its review, a work program for activities to be carried out during the following fiscal year; and,
immediately thereafter, finalize said program taking into consideration the Association's comments;
*   Training and study tours shall be carried out according to a training plan, which the PIU will revise
semi-annually and submit to the Association for approval prior to implementation;
*   A new Water Law or amendments to the existing Water Law, acceptable to the Association, be
presented to Parliament before June 30, 2001; and
*   By June 30, 2003 the Government shall submit to the Association for its review a report with
options for DWR's future restructuring of its current functions and activities and its staffing needs,
including a plan for the complete integration of the WUA support units into the structure of
MAWR, and before September 30, 2003 finalize said plan, taking into consideration the
Association's comments.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
*   Government will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the project
and the achievement of the project's objectives; and
*   Government will prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, on or about
June 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the
achievement of its objectives and review the report with the Association, by September 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
L 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Participating WUAs have to fulfill a number of criteria and milestones before rehabilitation of the
infrastructure can be considered (see Annex 2). Therefore the engineering design documents for the first
year's activities have not yet been prepared. However, the PIU has already gained experience with the
implementation of four pilot schemes, for which standard Small Works documents and contracts were
drawn up, including agreements between the PIU and the WUA for cost recovery on investments. In
addition, the project has started to work with three of the best legally established WUAs, with the aim of
having rehabilitation works identified and designed soon after Credit Effectiveness. It is expected that all
documents for the rehabilitation works on the first five project farms are ready for tendering by May 2001
- 33 -



and that the works will be completed before the end of 2001.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Joop    tjesdijk                   oseph  . Goldberg                Kiyoshi Kodera
Tea'mE !ader                    0;ector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Attainment of long-term    1.1. Contribution to the  1.1.1. Annual Economic   Consistent with Bank's
sustainable growth in      agricultural GDP from      Reviews;                   mission;
agriculture;              irrigated agriculture;
1.1.2. MAWR statistics;
1.1.3. Various sector and
country reports, prepared on a
regular basis by different aid
agencies;
Project Development       Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To achieve increased crop   1.1. Increase crop yields in  1.1.1. MAWR statistics;  Supportive macro-economic
production through reliable    the project farms by 10                           framework;
and sustainable water       percent two years after
distribution on about 160,000   rehabilitation works have                        Other investment projects in
ha of irrigated land across the  been completed (to be                           the sector successful (e.g.
country's seven oblasts.    measured in a number of                              extension, credit and
representative farmers'                              marketing);
fields; in project areas that
have benefited from the IRP                          Prices for agricultural
a combined increase in                              products remain competitive;
yields of 20 percent would be
aimed at);                                           Agricultural inputs continue
to be available at competitive
prices;
1.2. On-farm irrigation  1.2.1. WUA reports;
systems properly operated
and maintained after      1.2.2. Annual reports
completion of rehabilitation  prepared by the WUA support
works;                   units, based on field
information;
1.3. Supply to and       1.3.1. DWR reports on water
distribution within the  diversions and deliveries to
project farms of adequate    WUAs;
irrigation water in a timely
manner, in line with crop    1.3.2. Annual reports
water requirements (average prepared by WUA support
volume of water reaching    units, based on field
head of farm and field would information and information
be 9,000 m3/ha and 7,000 m3 provided by WUAs;
respectively);
- 35 -



Key Performnance 
Hierarcby of Objectives  Id iator               ~onitbrin  & Evauation         Critical  supin
Output from each              Output Indicators:           Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Reliable and high quality   1.1. Number of O&M plans   1.1. 1. WUA reports;           The input of water only leads
management of rehabilitated   developed in detail, fully                                 to increase in agricultural
irrigation systems;          costed and implemented each                                 production;
year after completion of      1.1.2. Annual reports
rehabilitation works;        prepared by the WUA support Govemment makes sufficient
units, based on field        budget allocation to O&M of
information;                 inter-farm and main irrigation
113 PlUproressrports;infrastructure, to supplement
1. 1.3. PIIUS progress reports;  the collected ISF;
1. 1.4. IDA progress and
supervision reports;
1.2. Representation and      1.2.1. WUA reports;
participation of users in     1.2.2. Annual reports
WUAs;                        prepared by the WUA support
units, based on field
information;
1.2.3. PIU progress reports;
1.2.4. IDA progress and
supervision reports;
1.3. Collection rates at least   1.3 I. WUA reports;
90 percent of estimated tariff
within two years after        1.3.2. Annual reports
completion of rehabilitation    prepared by the WUA support
works;                       units;
1.3.3. PIU progress reports;
1.3.4. IDA progress and
supervision reports;
1.4. Timely repairs to       1.4.1. WUA reports;
on-farm irrigation
infrastructure;               1.4.2. Annual reports
prepared by the WUA support
units;
1.4.3. PIU progress reports;
1.4.4. IDA progress and
supervision reports;
2. Adequate irrigation water  2.1. Distribution efficiency of 2.1.1. WUA reports;
is received by farmers in the   80 percent achieved;       2.1.2. Annual reports
project farms;                                             prepared by the WUA support
units;
2.1.3. PIU progress reports;
2.1.4. IDA progress and
supervision reports;
- 36 -



Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives         I=cators            Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptons
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
l. WUA Strengthening      1.1. US$ 6.18 million;    1.1.1. PIU Progress Reports, Farmers are contributing
Services;                                           including disbursement and   sufficiently for the O&M of
procurement reports;      irrigation infrastructure;
1.1.2. IDA Project progress   Continued Government
and supervision reports;  support for the program of
WUA development;
2. Infrastructure         2.1. US$ 22.25 million;   1.2.1. PIU Progress Reports,
Rehabilitation and O&M;                             including disbursement and   DWR able to absorb WUA
procurement reports;      Support Units in structure;
1.2.2. IDA Project progress   No cost overruns during
and supervision reports;  project implementation;
3. Project Implementation    3.1. US$ 0.57 million  1.3.1. PIU Progress Reports, Project staff are competent
Support;                                            including disbursement and   and dedicated;
procurement reports;
Capable contractors to carry
1.3.2. IDA Project progress  out civil works;
and supervision reports;
Sufficient counterpart funds
available;
Selection of project sites
according to agreed criteria
and water users responding
positively to the assistance
provided.
- 37 -



Annex 2: Project Description
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$6.18 million
WUA Development Services
WUA Support Units
Success of the On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP) would be dependent upon developing strong Water
User Associations (WUAs). Recognizing the need to fill the gap left by the dissolution of the former state
and collective farms, farmers have been forning WUAs upon their own, with some support from the
Department of Water resources (DWR), even though they have no prior experience with this type of
participatory irrigation management organization. There is limited experience with WUA development in
the Kyrgyz Republic. The DWR is the organization that is involved in irrigation developments and delivery
of water to farms. It is well represented at central as well as local level. Therefore it has been decided that
the DWR will be used to develop the internal capability to support and nurture these WUAs. This is
critical if the WUAs are to be developed in organizations that have the capacity to operate and maintain
on-farm irrigation systems in a sustainable manner.
As the country would eventually need to form approximately 500 WUAs, there would still be need
to form and sustain additional WUAs in the Kyrgyz Republic even after the project is completed. In order
to establish the institutional capability to develop WUAs as well as to ensure that the Government has the
long-term technical capacity to support WUAs, the OIP would help create WUA support units within the
DWR at central, oblasts and rayon level. It is envisioned that these support units would be incorporated
into the regular line structure of the DWR at the end of the project. Therefore the IDA would finance
salaries and operational costs on a declining basis. The project would also provide office and field
equipment, necessary for the proper functioning of all support units. Table I presents the proposed number
and timing of development of the WUA support units in the oblasts and raions. It is envisaged that during
PYI four oblast units and four raion units will be established. In PY2 three oblast units would be
established as well as 7 raion units. During PY3 another 8 raion units may be established. The
establishment of especially the raion units will be carefully determined, based on needs and may be
stretched out over a period longer than the envisaged three years. Table 2 presents the WUA establishment
efforts to date in the different oblasts. It also indicates the total number of WUAs that may have to be
established in the country, as well as the number of WUAs in the different oblasts that the project expects
to work with.
- 38 -



Table 1. Proposed number of oblast and raion WUA support units and
number of WUAs to participate in system rehabilitation
Oblast & Raion PY1 PY2 PY3 PY4 PY5 PY6 Total Area (ha)
Osh               1                             1   142,000
Raions   1   1   2                     4
Chui              1                             1   330,000
Raions   1   1   2                     4
Jalalabad         1                             1   131,000
Raions   1   1   1                     3
Issy-kul          1                             1   169,000
Raions   1   1                         2
Nayrn                  1                        1   129,000
Raions        1   1                    2
Talas                  1                        1   115,000
Raions        1   1                    2
Batken                 1                        1    55,000
Raions        1   1                    2
Oblast Totals     4   3   0   0   0   0    7 1,071,000
Raion Totals   4    7   8   0   0   0   19           -
Grand Totals      8  10   8   0   0   0   26  1,071,000
Estimated # of WUAs to be assisted with
rehabilitation efforts under the proiect and total area
5  12  16  20  17  101  80    160,000
Table 2. Present and future WUA development
WUAs at Kolkhoz /
# of    # of new WUAs to be Slovhkoz level (former
Established established over Live    and state and
Oblast          WUAs        of the Project'   collective farms)2
Osh                   28                 45                  89
Chui                   7                 20                 129
Jalalabad             20                 30                  89
Issy-kul               8                 20                  68
Nayrn                  1                 10                  61
Talas                  6                 15                  37
Batken                17                 20                  31
Totals                87                160                 504
1 Approximate number of involved WUAs over the life of the project (LOP)
2Numbers of former state and collective farms providing estimate of future
WUA Support Unit at National Level: In order to develop and sustain WUAs, the DWR needs an
in-house ability to support WUAs both technically and organizationally. To address this requirement, it is
necessary to develop within the central office of the DWR a unit that is responsible for all coordination
- 39 -



aspects of WUAs. The support unit would comprise the following full-time staff: WUA Development
Specialist, Training Specialist, Engineer and Financial Specialist. Short-term consultants would be hired
as needed in such disciplines as law, agronomy and training.
Technical Assistance (TA) consultants would be recruited to assist in the formation and
strengthening of WUA support units, through the development of institutional capacity. The TA staff will
have their offices in Bishkek along with their counterparts in the DWR. The TA team would comprise
expertise in WUA development, promotion and training, finance, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and
law. Most of the TA would be recruited on a short-term basis.
The WUA Development Specialist would take the lead in WUA development and support
programs. Due to the fact that the Kyrgyz Republic has limited experience with WUAs, this specialist
would play a critical role. He/she would help plan the long-term strategy for WUA development and work
closely with WUA support unit staff at all levels to ensure involved staff understand WUA formation and
development and the role WUAs would play in sustainable irrigation in the future. This individual would
provide a key guidance role in the Government's plan to develop a systematic process by which WUAs are
formed and sustained as they grow to maturity.
The Promotion and Training Specialist would work closely with counterparts from DWR in the
area of training and promotion to develop the capability within the DWR to plan promotion campaigns and
develop training materials. The specialist would help develop training courses and take the lead in the
'Training the Trainers' courses that would develop the cadre of trainers for the OIP that can take
responsibility for training programs in the respective locations. Overall training activities under the OIP
would be the responsibility of the central WUA support unit, which would prepare training materials
needed to strengthen the WUAs as well as work with oblast and raion based trainers to institutionalize
courses needed to strengthen WUAs in group formation, leadership, preparation of O&M plans and ISF
calculation, financial management, water allocation and system maintenance.
The WUA Financial Specialist would develop a standardized bookkeeping system that would be
used by all the WUAs. He/she would also develop a range of methodologies for calculating ISF. This
individual would be responsible for developing training programs and other methods to disseminate this
infornnation.
The WUA legal specialist would help ensure the new WUA law is workable and would help
address any future amendments that need to be made to the law. He/she would work with local
counterparts to develop a full packet of registration materials for use by the WUAs. The specialist would
also help address remaining issues that may include VAT taxation and ownership of irrigation
infrastructure.
The M&E Specialist would work with the WUA support units and the PIU to establish a dynamic
monitoring and evaluation system for measuring the progress of the project.
In addition to interacting with staff from DWR, the TA team would also work with the Rural
Advisory Development Specialists (RADS) program, including the Group Formation Expert based in
RADS headquarters in Bishkek, RADS advisers and the Media Center that has been established in the
RADS Secretariat in Bishkek.
WUA Support Units at Oblast Level: In order to create technical support capacity at oblast level,
WUA support units would be established within each of the DWR's oblast offices. These support units
- 40 -



would work with DWR's central support unit on the development of strategies for WUA development as
well as programs for helping WUAs to determine their system improvement requirements. The support
units would also be responsible for formulation of long-term programs for WUA strengthening and their
staff would serve as subject matter specialists to provide advice and assistance to the WUA support units at
raion level to develop sustainable WUAs.
The oblast support units would include an Irrigation or Civil Engineer to assist, in close
cooperation with raion support units, WUAs to determine their construction requirements and work with
them to develop a program of improvement of the irrigation infrastructure. The oblast engineer would play
a critical role in the rehabilitation process in that he has to coordinate work carried out by the IRP with that
carried out by the OIP to ensure on-farm improvements are not constrained by the need for off-farm
repairs. The Engineer would also work with the procurement specialist and engineer in the PIU to ensure
that contracts are let in a timely manner, using transparent processes. The Engineer would also provide
overall supervision during the construction phase of the improvement contracts. The seven oblast WUA
support unit engineers would work with DWR's WUA support unit engineer to formulate a long range
vision of the oblasts and the overall requirements for irrigation infrastructure improvement.
The oblast Water Management Specialist would develop programs throughout the oblast to
improve water use efficiency. In particular the person has to coordinate training courses that can
strengthen the O&M management capability of WUAs. The specialist would act as a trainer as well as
identify other staff within DWR and outside that can serve as trainers in on-farm water management
courses. He/she will work closely with the short-term training consultants and trainers.
The WUA Support Specialist would be involved in all aspects of the formation and strengthening
of the WUAs. He/she has to help develop training programs on governance and management of the WUAs
as well as work with the WUA treasurers and financial consultants to help the WUAs establish appropriate
accounting and book-keeping systems. The WUA Support Specialist would coordinate closely with the
oblast RADS Centers. These Centers have been established to provide technical advisory services,
including advice in group formation and irrigation water use. It is the responsibility of the WUA Support
Specialist to work closely with the RADS staff in order to minimize duplication of activities and maximize
the effectiveness of training courses and other outreach activities.
WUA Support Units at Raion Level: Not only would WUAs have to assume responsibility for
sustainable O&M, they also would have to plan for long-term improvements of the system as well as
ensuring that their WUA is financially sound. The DWR would become a bulk seller of water and
drainage services with WUAs as their primary clients. With this type of relationship it is very
important that DWR's rayon offices have the technical and institutional ability to support WUAs to
ensure they are viable farmer governed organizations.
WUA support units would be established in up to 19 raion offices of the DWR to help with the
formation of WUAs, including providing assistance in helping them gain legal registration. Staff from
these WUA support units would also work with WUAs to strengthen them and arrange and conduct
training courses so that they can gain the skills needed to properly manage, operate and maintain their
irrigation distribution system. In order to carry out the activities under this project as well as to
continue to support WvUAs afterwards it is important that the WUA support unit is institutionalized
within the raion office.
It is envisioned that there would be three staff working in a raion unit: an Engineer, a Water
Management Technician and a WUA Support Technician. The Engineer would assist the WUAs
- 41 -



determine their rehabilitation requirements and work with them during contracting as well as provide
supervision during the construction phase of the improvement. He/she would also be responsible for
helping the WUA develop sustainable policies to maintain the improved irrigation infrastructure.
The Water Management Technician would work with the water users on improving irrigation
distribution and water management practices in the farms.
The WUA Support Technician would help the WUA identify training requirements and work
with the training consultants to ensure WUA staff members are able to attend the appropriate training
courses. He/she would provide continuing on-the-job training and advice to WUA Boards and
members and would also work with WUA treasurers and the financial consultants to help WUAs
establish and maintain its accounting and book-keeping system.
Raion-based WUA support units would work very closely with RADS technicians at the raion
level. In particular the WUA support unit would coordinate with RADS on group formation. It would
also ensure that RADS technicians provide extension advice to project farms and that training facilities
developed under RADS can be used.
Training and Study Tours
During the OIP implementation a large number of training courses would be conducted. These
courses would both strengthen the WUA support units at DWR's central, oblast and raion level as well
as strengthen participating WUAs. At this stage it is difficult to estimate exactly how many training
courses are required but a first estimate is that approximately 187 courses will be conducted during
project implementation. The various type of courses required are discussed below and table 3 provides
some idea about the timing of the courses.
Study tours would be carried out to expose DWR staff and WUA Board members to a range of
successful WUA developments in other countries such as China, Mexico and Turkey.
Courses to be developed and conducted would include the following:
Training of Trainers - a series of training of the trainer courses will be developed, initially by the
TA Team and then jointly by the TA Team and their DWR counterparts after they have gone through
training. The overall objective of these courses is to develop a cadre of trainers within and outside the
support units that can take responsibility for the training programs in the respective locations. The project
would also hire short-term consultants, e.g. from the technical university and the Agricultural Academy. In
addition, the project may work with NGOs to provide certain training activities.
WUA Promotion Seminars - these will be a series of seminars to be held in the oblasts, raions and
WUA farms. The overall purpose is to introduce the concept of WUAs and to ensure that the involved
staff all have the same vision of a WUA and the role they will play in the management, operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems. The WUA promotion courses for the former state and collective farms
will be designed to educate the farmers about WlAs and to empower them that this organizational
structure will help them develop a sustainable institution to operate and maintain on-farm irrigation. A
series of courses will be developed so that return visits can be made as needed to develop the WUA
members knowledge.
WUA Support Functions - Courses that train oblast and raion DWR staff on how to provide
- 42 -



support services for WUAs will be a critical part of the training program. These courses will focus on
technical, managerial and administrative needs of WUAs.
Irrigation Improvements - Courses for the oblast and raion support unit Engineers will focus on
the needs for on-farm irrigation. These courses will strengthen the capability of the technical staff to assist
WUAs with the development of viable plans for on-farm irrigation rehabilitation. Technical staff from
WUAs would also participate in these courses.
Conflict Resolution - These courses will be designed for the WUA Specialist at the oblast and
raion levels and for WUA staff. They will teach the participants how to address conflicts within the WUAs
and between members and to develop skills for conflict resolution.
WUA Governance and Administration - These courses will be designed for the WUA Boards and
management staff in order to strengthen their abilities to govem and adtninister the WUAs. They will focus
on the skills needed to serve on the WUA Board and the requirements for serving as a manager of the
WUA, including budgeting, personnel management and office administration.
WUA Financial Management - These courses will prepare the WUA accountant for managing the
financial affairs of the WUA. They will include training in using the standardized WUA bookkeeping
system as well as estimating WUA O&M costs and ISF. The course will also train the accountants about
working with local suppliers and contractors.
WUA Operations - These courses will train the heads of the WIUA operation sections and their
operation staff. Training will include staff management, budgeting, determining water supplies and
estimating water requirements. They will also include material on personnel management and development
as well as staff development. Courses in proper water management and application will be developed for
water users.
WVUA Maintenance - These courses will focus on on-farm irrigation maintenance techniques. They
will also teach techniques on budget estimating and formulation of short- and long-term maintenance
programs, including asset replacement. Courses to prepare contracts to outsource operation and/or
maintenance of irrigation systems would also be developed and conducted to interested WUAs.
In addition to these formal courses there would be on-the-job training programs as well as spot
training activities carried out by WUA support unit staff.
- 43 -



Table 3. Estimated Number of Training Courses
Activity PY1 PY2 PY3 PY4 TOTAL
PIU-DWR
Oblast-Raion
OIP Introduction        seminar      1                         1
sub-total    1   -    -     -        1
Training of Trainers    course       4     3     2             9
sub-total    4   3     2   -         9
Oblast Level Training
7 Oblast Units          establish    4     3                   7
(1) WUA Promotion       seminar      2     2     2             6
(2) WUA Support         course             2     3     2       7
(3) Irrigation Improvements course   2     2     2     1       7
sub-total    4   6     7     3      20
Raion Level Training
19 Raion Units          establish    4     7     8            19
(1) WUA Promotion       seminar      3     4     3     1      11
(2) WUA Support         course       2     4     4     2      12
(3) Conflict Resolutions    course         3     3     4      10
(4) Irrigation Improvements course   3     7     3     3      16
sub-total    8    18    13   10     49
WUA Training
160 WUAs
(1) WUA Promotion-1     seminar      4     7     6     2      19
(2) WUA Promotion-2     seminar      4     7     6     2      19
(3) Governance &
Administration          course       4     7     6     2      19
(4) Financial Management course      4     7     6     2      19
(4) Operation of Systems  course           5     5     6      16
(5) Maintenance         course             5     5     6      16
sub-total   16    38    34    20    108
TOTALS (Training & Seminars)           33    65    56    33    187
Areas of Operation
Site selection for involvement of project staff with WUAs has three parts: (i) the oblasts where project
activities will be carried out; (ii) the raions within the oblasts where project activities will be concentrated;
and (iii) fornner state and collective farms where WUAs will be developed and construction activity
initiated.
The OIP will be implemented in all seven oblasts in the country. However, recognizing that it is
unrealistic to organize project units and activities in all parts of the country simultaneously, it has been
decided to use a phased approach to implementation. In the first year the project would establish WUA
support units in four oblasts and in the second year the project would establish WUA support units in the
remaining three oblasts.
Within the oblasts it is necessary to select a manageable set of raions where project activities can
be implemented. Such raions need a reasonable number of former state farms that can be developed into
- 44 -



WUAs. It does not make sense to open a support unit in a raion where there will only be one WUA. They
also need to be in areas where agriculture is productive enough that WJUAs can become financially
sustainable. A total of 19 raion level WUA support units is expected to be established in a phased
approach over three years in the seven oblasts.
It is expected that the WUA support unit at raion level would also work with WUAs in those raions
that do not have WUA support units, as the distances are not that great. However, in the long-run as the
country eventually must establish approximately 500 WUAs, it is expected that there would be a WUA
support unit in most raions.
Selection of project farms would be based on criteria and milestones that are discussed in the next
section.
Project Component 2 - US$22.25 million
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Operation and Maintenance
In order to improve about 160,000 ha of land served by irrigation distribution infrastructure, it has
been estimated that the project will end up doing construction work in the command areas of approximately
80 WUAs (see Table 1 for the expected phasing of WUA participation in rehabilitation works). However,
it must be recognized that the project would be in a position to help develop and strengthen many more
WUAs than the number that actually qualifies for construction improvements. As a working hypothesis the
team has estimated that over the life of the project it is estimated that OIP staff will be involved with at
least 160 WUAs in the seven oblasts. This is a large number of WUAs and means that the institutional
strengthening part of this project cannot be slighted while the project concentrates on construction. Before
addressing deteriorated infrastructure at the former farm level, the project must first of all establish WUAs
that have the interest and ability to grow into strong, financially viable and sustainable WUAs.
The decision mechanisms to identify good candidates for irrigation systems improvements would
include a number of milestones and criteria that would be used to determnine when it is felt that a WUA is
mature enough to start discussing irrigation system improvements to be funded with credit funds. These
criteria are as follows:
Legally Registered - To be sustainable a WUA must be a registered, legal organization. The first
activity of the project would be to help WUAs become registered. A typical first step in this process would
be one or more introductory visits by WUA support unit staff to promote and explain the project's planned
support to the WUA, explain the suggested composition of a WUA and the registration process and to
request a written assurance of the interest and willingness of the users to participate in project activities and
to establish a WUA as the organization to manage, operate and maintain the irrigation infrastructure in the
farm. Secondly the WUA would be registered as a legal entity of public right. Where needed the project
would advise in the registration process. The water users would also elect a WUA Council and chairman.
Establishment of WUA Office - Soon after electing the Council, the WUA would have to establish
an office and recruit staff including at a minimum a manager, an accountant, a head of operations,
ditchriders, maintenance staff and other office staff as needed. Subject to approval by the general meeting,
a WUA could request a small credit to purchase limited office and field equipment. The first training
courses would be conducted at this time, including training in WtUA management, O&M planning and
accounting.
- 45 -



Irrigation Service Fees - Once established, the WUA Council must develop a plan to achieve
long-term operational and financial viability. Such a plan would include the setting of the required
Irrigation Service Fees and the introduction of this required fee over a specific period. Step-wise increases
of ISF must eventually reach a level that can sustain the WUA organization as well as the maintenance and
replacement of irrigation infrastructure. Project consultants have estimated that the final level for on-farmn
irrigation O&M is approximately US$ 10 per ha. However, as the best WUAs are presently collecting less
that US$ 1.0 per ha, it is expected that the ISF plans adopted by WUA Boards will have annual increases
until they reach a sustainable level needed to operate and maintain their systems. This might include an
annual progression over five years such as US$ 3 per ha, US$ 5 per ha, US$ 7 per ha, US$ 9 per ha and
US$ 10 per ha. Thus over a five-year period it is expected that WUAs will gradually increase their ISF
levels to reach financial sustainability. WUA support unit staff would be assisting WUAs in developing
O&M plans, which would serve as the basis for the calculation of service fees and start with the
strengthening program for the WUA to assume O&M responsibility of the command area under its
responsibility.
ISF Payment - Not only do WUAs need to pass a plan to achieve long-term financial viability, they
also need to ensure that the members pay their ISF. An important measure of maturity of the WUA is the
ISF collection percentage rate. Any WUA where the collection rate is below 80 percent is not very stable.
WUA support units would advise accountants and other WUA staff on establishing systems to track
collection of fees.
ISF Payments to DWR - In addition to on-farm ISF, water users are expected to pay a percentage
of the off-farm irrigation O&M costs. At present this is set at 3.0 tiyin per m3. Members of the WUA are
required to pay this amount to the WUA, which in turn will pay DWR. Payment of this amount to DWR's
rayon office is an important measure of the strength of the WUA.
Willingness to Borrow - An agreement to borrow must be made voluntarily by the WUAs. This
includes an expressed willingness to borrow funds for irrigation improvements and recognition of the
WUA's responsibility to repay 25 percent of the investment costs. These two criteria are important
elements in the decision making process for deternining WUAs where construction activities would be
initiated. The 25 percent repayment of the rehabilitation costs would help to ensure that the WJUAs and
their members show commitment and feel motivated to properly maintain the irrigation infrastructure. A
repayment requirement also ensures that WUAs do not demand excessive irrigation system improvements.
Milestones for Irrigation System Rehabilitation
The decision about where and when to initiate rehabilitation activities under the project would be
based on a series of milestones reached by WlAs. As each milestone is reached, OIP project staff can then
assist with the next set of development activities. The milestones leading to irrigation system rehabilitation
are as follows:
Milestone ] - Formal establishment of the WUA, including legal registration;
Milestone 2 - WUA staff hired, paid and training program started;
Milestone 3 - WUA Council and management have made an O&M plan, including an ISF
development plan that covers all costs. The proposals have to be approved by a general assembly meeting;
Milestone 4 - Members have paid the agreed service fees, including payment to the DWR's rayon
-46 -



offices during the period since WUA establishment. If this milestone occurs within the first year, the ISF to
the WUA should then be at least 30 percent of the required one and full payment to the DWR of the then
current ISF;
Milestone 5 - WUA management, assisted by DWR oblast and raion offices, develop alternatives
for irrigation system rehabilitation, including the associated costs. Alternatives must be technically,
economically (financial internal rate of return of at least 12 percent) and environmentally viable. The
WUA members would be involved during formal and informal meetings to express their perceived
rehabilitation needs.
Milestone 6 - WUA members select an alternative for irrigation system rehabilitation.
Milestone 7 - WUA membership votes to borrow funds for irrigation system improvement under
the agreed upon repayment terms. The WUA Council would officially request the PIU to carry out the
agreed rehabilitation works.
If there are no organizational problems or local conflicts, it is expected WUAs would reach
Milestone 4 during the first year. All WUAs that reach this point are considered good candidates for
irrigation system rehabilitation and project engineers would start working with them to develop a set of
plans for rehabilitation, which should be financially viable. WUAs that agree to rehabilitation and vote to
borrow OIP loan funds for construction works would work with central, oblast and raion engineers to
procure a contractor and sign a contract. Most of the design and supervision work would be relatively
simple and within the capacity of the raion support unit engineers, under the general supervision of the
oblast support unit engineers. For works that are beyond the capacity of the raion engineers, the PIU
would have a contract with a consulting firm to prepare designs and perform construction supervision and
quality control.
A typical farm comprises a number of main distribution canals that run through the farm and feed
smaller distribution canals that serve a block of irrigated land of around 40 ha. Within such a block there
are no permanent canals or structures. Farners excavate seasonal ditches that are used to deliver the water
to the crops. Based on a detailed survey of irrigation infrastructure in Chui Oblast it was calculated that
the average length of on-farm distribution canal is 16 m per ha, of which 6.1 m per ha is concrete lined.
The average interval of on-farm canal offtake structures is 1.5 km per ha. The average length of the
on-farm drainage system is 28.9 m per ha (this is higher than for other oblasts, as Chui Oblast has the
highest density of drainage systems). The project will concentrate the rehabilitation on this existing system,
but there will also be some improvements where large gains in water distribution management could be
achieved.
The rehabilitation needs would be farm specific, but are expected to include rehabilitation of lined
canals, cleaning of earthen canals and drains, rehabilitation and construction of structures, construction of
water measuring devices and repair to night storage reservoirs and scheme roads. Investment costs would
also be scheme specific, but expect to vary from US$ 30 to 115 per hectare, with an average of around
US$ 75 per ha (without VAT). As illustration two examples of cost tables are shown below in Table 4.
- 47 -



Table 4. Examples of cost estimates (in US$) for surveyed farms
Farm in Kenesh Village Government
Unit    Quantity  Unit Cost  Amount
Kologon Canal
desilting                      m3       12,000     0,88      10,560
in-situ concrete               m3        155       33,81     5,241
metal works                     kg       400       0,99       396
other works                                                   250
subtotal                                                     16,447
Auk Shydyr Canal
desilting                      m3        7,000     0,88      6,160
in-situ concrete               m3        155       33,81     5,241
metal works                     kg       400       0,99       396
other works                                                   250
subtotal                                                     12,047
Shaydan Canal
desilting                      m3                  0,88      4,400
in-situ concrete               m3                  33,81     5,782
metal works                    kg                  0,99      5,207
subtotal                                                     15,389
Right Branch Canal
desilting                      m3       20,400     0,88      17,952
in-situ concrete               m3       2,306      33,81     77,966
metal works                    m3       4,010      0,99      3,970
subtotal                                                     99,888
New Canal
earth works                    m3       30,000     1,21      36,300
in-situ concrete               m3        179       33,81     6,052
metal works                    m3        1,080     0,99      1,069
other works                                                   250
subtotal                                                     43,671
TOTAL                                                       187,442
Area                                      ha                 4,051
Total investment costs per ha            $/ha                46.27
Plus 10% for physical contigence         $/ha                 4.63
Per hectare investment costs before VAT  $/ha                50.90
VAT @ 20%                                $/ha                 10.18
Per hectare investment costs including VAT  $/ha             61.08
- 48 -



Farm in Ak-Tash Village Government
Unit     Quantity  Unit Cost Amount
Taryhcy Canal
desilting                       m3      2,100      0,88     1,848
in-situ concrete                m3        10      33,81      338
metal works                     kg       320       0,99      317
subtotal                                                    2,503
Angy Nygny Canal
replacement of flumes           km        1       6750      6,750
removal of flumes               m3       1,000     17,5    17,500
in-situ concrete                m3       1,836    33,81    62,075
desilting                       m3      19,200     0,88    16,896
metal works                     kg        6        0,99       6
subtotal                                                   103,227
The 2nd May Canal
in-situ concrete                m3       1,268    33,81    42,871
earth work                      m3      10,000     1,21    12,100
subtotal                                                   54,971
Barak Canal
desilting                                                   6,160
subtotal                                                    6,160
TOTAL                                                      166,861
Area                                                ha      1,666
Total Investment costs per ha                      $/ha     100,2
Plus 10% for physical contigencies                 $/ha      10
Per hectare investment costs before VAT            $/ha      110
VAT @ 20%                                          $/ha      22
Per hectare investment costs including VAT         $/ha      132
O&M costs would also farm specific, but have been calculated to be around US$ 10.00 per ha for
the area under the management of the WUA and US$ 15.00 per ha for main and inter-farm systems, under
the management of the DWR. WUAs would be fully responsible for the collection and payment of these
O&M costs.
The project would give priority to farms within the command area of irrigation systems that have
or will be rehabilitated under the IRP. Since there are a number of farms outside these command areas
with strong interest in WUA development and readiness to fulfill all selection criteria and milestones, some
of the off-farm infrastructure supplying these farms would be rehabilitated as well. This sub-component
would fund the necessary rehabilitation of inter-farm systems, including canal cleaning, lining and
structures. An allocation of US$ 1.5 million (base cost) has been made to support such inter-farm
rehabilitation works.
- 49 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.57 million
Project Implementation Support
The PIU that has been established for the IRP would be reinforced through the project for its daily
management. A Deputy Project Director, Senior Engineer, M&E Specialist, Accountant, Procurement
Specialist and Translator, to be hired on a competitive basis, would be added to the PIU staff for the
duration of the proposed project. In addition the project would finance a limited amount of equipment,
including office and communication equipment and vehicles. Additional support staff (secretary and
drivers) and operational expenses of the PIU would be financed on a declining basis.
An audit firm for the annual audit of project accounts would be financed from the Credit funds.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Components
%     % Total
(US$ 000)           Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
1. WUA Development Services
a. Establishment of WUA Support Units
at Central Level                          176.4       34.4    210.8        16      1
at Oblast Level                           877.6      184.2   1,061.8       17      4
at Rayon Level                            872.8      387.7   1,260.5       31      5
Subtotal Establishment of WUA Support Units  1,926.8   606.3   2,533.1        24     11
b. Promotion/Strengthening of WUAs           767.2   1,930.7   2,697.9        72     11
Subtotal WUA Development Services             2,694.0   2,537.0   5,231.0       49      22
2. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and O&M     12,839.2   5,416.8  18,256.0       30      76
3. Implementation Support                      402.2      126.4    528.6        24       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 15,935.4   8,080.2  24,015.6       34    100
Physical Contingencies                        1,567.6     808.0   2,375.6       34      10
Price Contingencies                           1,804.0     825.7   2,629.7       31      11
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  19,307.0   9,713.9  29,020.9       33    121
- 51 -



Summary of Expenditures
%     % Total
(US$ 000)           Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Works
Civil works On-Farm             10,080.0   4,320.0  14,400.0      30     60
Civil Works Off farm             1,050.0    450.0   1,500.0       30      6
Subtotal Works                       11,130.0   4,770.0  15,900.0      30     66
B. Goods
Vehicles                           133.4    311.2    444.6        70      2
Office Equipment                   152.7    356.4    509.1        70      2
Machinery and Equipment (WUA)     312.0    728.0   1,040.0        70      4
Subtotal Goods                          598.1   1,395.6   1,993.7      70      8
C. Services
PIU                               223.2         -    223.2         -      1
Technical Assistance              200.0   1,165.0   1,365.0       85      6
WUA Units                          147.5        -    147.5         -      1
Subtotal Services                       570.7   1,165.0   1,735.7      67      7
D. Training and Study Tours             412.8    102.8    515.6        20      2
Total Investment Costs                     12,711.6   7,433.4  20,145.0      37     84
II. Recurrent Costs
A. WUA Support Units & PIU
Salaries                          505.7         -    505.7         -      2
Operating Costs                  1,208.9        -   1,208.9        -      5
Subtotal WUASupportUnits &PIU         1,714.6         -   1,738.6        -     7
B. On farm O&M                        1,509.2    646.8   2,156.0       30      9
Total Recurrent Costs                       3,223.8    646.8   3,894.6       17     16
Total excluding Contingencies              15,935.4   8,080.2  24,015.6      34    100
Physical Contingencies                1,567.6    808.0   2,375.6       34     10
Price Contingencies                   1,804.0    825.7   2,629.7       31     11
Total Project Cost                         19,307.0   9,713.9  29,020.9      33    121
- 52 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
In addition to technical considerations, financial and economic criteria must be developed and
systematically applied for the selection of the infrastructure to be rehabilitated. It is imperative to keep the
criteria simple so that it can be used easily and with transparency. These criteria must ensure that: (i) a
minimum level of net returns can be expected from rehabilitation, given the limited availability of funds;
and (ii) the water users can pay for their share of the O&M costs (off-farm as well as on-farm) plus the
partial repayment of the rehabilitation cost. The calculation of a Financial (internal) Rate of Return (FRR)
for each "package" of works will meet the first condition and the calculation of crop budgets will meet the
second condition. The calculation of crop budgets is particularly important because a substantial part of
the farm production is not monetized; for example it is used for home consumption, for buying in kind new
agricultural inputs and paying in kind all types of taxes and fees. Consequently, a high FRR does not
necessarily mean that there is a large cash flow available at the farm level.
For illustrative purposes, a FRR was calculated for four models (on a per hectare basis) of
rehabilitation works based on two scenarios: Scenario A is assuming that only on-farm rehabilitation works
will be necessary, i.e. the corresponding off-farm irrigation infrastructure is already functioning properly
and is reasonably well maintained (e.g. schemes that have benefited from the IRP) and Scenario B is
assuming that some inter-farm rehabilitation works would be necessary for the on-farn irrigation
infrastructure to function properly. Each scenario could take place in the North or in the South of the
country, which have different farming systems. In the North there is more emphasis on wheat and maize
cultivation, while in the South more higher value cash crops such as cotton, fruits and vegetables are
grown.
Table I shows that Scenario B in the North would not be financially viable and that, therefore,
rehabilitating on-farm infrastructure in the North where corresponding inter-farm infrastructure must also
be rehabilitated should not take place, based on the specific assumptions of this analysis. Scenario A in the
North yields an acceptable FRR of 7 percent over 20 years and both Scenario A and Scenario B in the
South yield attractive FRRs. This does not necessarily mean that there would not be any project
intervention similar to Scenario B in the North. Each project farm would be surveyed and analyzed based
on actual data and there may be farms with an acceptable Rate of Return and hence could qualify for
participation in the project.
An Economic (internal) Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for three of the previous four
models. Scenario B in the North was discarded because it is not financial viable. Table 2 shows that three
ERRs range from 20 percent over 20 years in the North to 58 percent in the South for Scenario A (no
inter-farm rehabilitation necessary). Using an average opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent, the Net
Present Value of the Scenarios over 20 years would range from US$ 45 of 1999 per ha in the case of
Scenario A in the North to US$ 290 per ha in the South. The overall ERR for the total rehabilitation works
would be 42 percent and the overall NPV would be Som 9,040 of 1999 per ha or US$ 201 per ha (US$
32.2 million for 160,000 ha).
- 53 -



Table 1
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN OF REHABILITATION WORKS
(Soms of 1999 per Ha)
Sii*AM'en~l                        ii,tj A         - e~i
Year 1  Year 2-20   Year 1  Year 2-20   Year 1  Year 2-20   Year 1  Year 2-20
Incremental Income                  923                 923                2,371              2,371
Costs
Investment
On-farm                4,455              4,455               4                   4,455
Off-farm                 0                2,475                 0                 2,475
O&M
On-farm                          495                 495                 495                495
Off-farm                          0                  495                  0                 495
Net Cash Flow             -4,455    428      -6,930     -67      -4,4555    1,876    -6,930    1,381
ifi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Jgi$0X$0 0  F-    ;R>,5,000Xjie    0^0
N.B.: In sites where the off-farm infrastructure has already been rehabilitated or is in operational condition,
slightly higher yields could be expected already now. Therefore, it could be argued that the incremental income in
Scenario B should be somewhat higher than in Scenario A, because it will improve from a lower base. Assuming
that the income would be 10% higher than in Scenario A, the FRR in scenario B would still be negative in the
North and 23 percent in the South.
Table 2
Scenario A            Scenario B         All
Over 20 Years                      North       South           South        Scenarios
$AWlENPVC ,,        i Sorn         200        1027S7                     -      4
Sensitivity Analysis
With 30% Income Shortfall           9%          37%      .      16%
With 30% Cost Overrun               12%         42%             19%
- only investments               15%        45%              23%
- only O&M                       16%        55%              26%                    .
The project investments in institutional strengthening (about 20 percent of the total costs) must be
considered as a long-term investment having an overall irnpact well beyond the scope of the OIP, since the
DWR should eventually help establish enough WUAs - perhaps as many as 500 - to cover all the irrigated
areas of the country. Consequently, only part of the institutional strengthening costs should be attributed to
the OIP. Adding half of these costs to the project rehabilitation costs (i.e. shadow-pricing by 50 percent)
and the implementation support, would keep the OIP's overall ERR at a still attractive level of 36 percent.
In addition to the SIL which will increase the Govermnent's borrowing by US$ 20 million over
- 54 -



Years 2000-06, the Government will have to actually disburse an estimated US$ 1.5 million over the same
period in counterpart funds (all following amounts are in constant terms - i.e. US$ of Year 2000). To this
must be added US$ 4.8 million in foregone taxes which bring the Government's total counterpart
contribution to US$ 6.3 million. Moreover, starting in Year 2007, the DWR will have to finance the
equivalent of US$ 320,000 per year in operation (recurrent) costs for the WUA support units established
under the project. In return, the Government will collect from the water users the equivalent of US$ 4
million (over Years 2000-13) in repayments of part of the rehabilitation costs. Even when converted into
current terms, this could probably more than compensate for the initial cash outlay of US$ 1.5 million
(depending on the evolution of the domestic inflation and of the exchange rate).
In addition to the US$ 320,000 per year, the DWR will have to finance the full O&M on the
off-farm infrastructure corresponding to the 160,000 ha of on-farm infrastructure rehabilitated. At full
project development (Year 2007 onwards), the necessary annual amount is estimated at US$ 2.4 million.
This amount represents less than half of the DWR's Year 2000 budget and could therefore theoretically be
covered each year by the DWR's regular budget, which would mean, however, that other infrastructure
would receive even less funds for O&M, which is unlikely to be acceptable to Government. It is thus
important that as soon as possible, the WUAs should take over the financing of the O&M of the off-farm in
addition to that of the on-farm infrastructure. For 160,000 ha, the Government would then benefit from a
saving of up to US$ 2.4 million per year, which would more than compensate for the US$ 320,000 in
recurrent costs for the WUA support units. The long-term fiscal impact of the project is therefore expected
to be positive, even after considering the Government's repayments of the SIL.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The results of the models show clearly that rehabilitation - other things being equal - would be
significantly more profitable (financially and economically) in sites where the off-farm infrastructure has
already been rehabilitated and in the South where the farm income levels are often higher. These sites
should be given priority. A rigorous estimation of the rates of return, for the purpose of site selection, is
the key to the economic profitability of the project. The opportunity cost of capital, estimated at 12
percent, should be used as cut-off point for selection. It is estimated that the ERR for the totality of the
rehabilitation works would be about 42 percent over 20 years and 36 percent when part of the investments
in institutional strengthening are added.
Main Assumptions:
For the calculation of the incremental incomes, the main working assumptions are: (i) in the"
without-project" situation, a gradual deterioration of the irrigation systems was assumed, resulting in an
overall yield decline of 1 percent per year (altematively, the deterioration of the systems could result in a
reduction of the cropped area, which would have the same result in reduction in crop production); and (ii)
in the "with-project" situation, a 20 percent yield increase for the water users directly benefiting from the
rehabilitation works was assumed; as the works typically would cover around half the conunand area under
the management of a WUA, the overall average yield increase for all the water users in the area would then
be 10 percent.
For the calculation of the ERRs, the main working assumptions - in addition to the yield
assumptions - are: (i) for produce other than wheat, maize, urea and cotton, the market prices are
considered acceptable proxies of their economic values; (ii) the national currency is floating relatively
freely and does not need shadow-pricing; (iii) all prices and costs (including parity prices) are kept in
constant values of 1999; and (iv) unskilled labor is shadow-priced at 60 percent of the daily wages. Import
- 55 -



parity prices were estimated for wheat, maize and urea, and an export parity price for cotton (one of the
country's main export products in processed form).
For the calculation of averages of the results of the models, it is assumed that: (i) the equivalent of
19 percent of all the models would be in the form of Scenario B in the South (number of ha of inter-farm
rehabilitation under the project represents 19 percent of on-farm rehabilitation); (ii) 2/3 of the remaining
investments would be Scenario A - South (because of its higher ERR); and (iii) 1/3 of the remaining
investments would be Scenario A - North.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERRs are all more sensitive to income shortfalls than to
cost overruns. For example, with Scenario B in the South, a 30 percent income shortfall would reduce the
ERR to 16 percent, whereas a 30 percent cost overrun would reduce it to 19 percent. On the cost side, the
ERRs are all more sensitive to overruns in the investment costs than in the O&M costs. The conclusion is
that the estimation of the incremental income will be the most important factor in the calculation of the
rates of return. The estimation of the rehabilitation costs will be the second most important factor. (See
Table 2 above.)
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Financing in Calendar Years (starting in October)
Totals Including Contingencies ($,000)
2000     2001       2002      2003      2004       2005        2006     Total
Total Investment Costs      48.1    2,603.0    4,084.1  4,562.9    5,297.7    4,848.5    2,803.7 24,248.0
Total Recurrent Costs       12.1       191.2     360.7    553.2       820.6    1,231.1    1,604.0  4,772.9
Total                 60.2    2,794.2    4,444.8  5,116.1    6,118.3    6,079.6    4,407.71 29,020.9
Financing Sources
Implemenation Period
I% of Total by Year  2000      2001       2002      2003      2004       2005       2006      Total
IDA                 98.3%       84.6%      79.3%    74.4%      70.2%      62.8%      48.8%    68.7%
GOK                   1.7%      15.4%      19.9%    22.5%      23.0%      23.8%       22.1%   22.0%
Farmers (WUAs)        0.0%       0.0%       0.8%     3.1%       6.8%       13.4%      29.1%J   9.3%
Total %             100.0%     100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%      100.1%     100.0%J   100%
$(,00                2000      2001       2002      2003      2004       2005           2006    Total
IDA                    59       2,364      3,525    3,808      4,298      3,819       2,152  20,025
GOK                     1        430        884    1,150       1,405       1,449       972   6,292
Farmers (WUAs)        -          -           35       157        415        815       1,284   2,706
Total                  60       2,794      4,444    5,115      6,118      6,083 |    4,408  29,022
Disbursement by World Bank Fiscal Year
$(,000)              2001     2002       2003      2004       2005       2006       2007       Total
IDA                  1,241      2,944      3,666    4,053      4,058      3,344        717  20,025
GOK                   216        657       1,017    1,278      1,427       1,372       324   6,292
Farmers (WUAs)        -           17         96       286        615       1,264       428    2,706
Total                1,457      3,619      4,779    5,617      6,101       5,980      1,469 j 29,022
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Procurement
General: Procurement of works and goods would be done in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). The Borrower would use the Bank's standard bidding
documents for goods and works, including the Bank's regional sample documents. Consulting services and
training would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines - Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). For
the consulting assignments the Borrower would use the relevant Bank's standard forms of contract. Any
goods, works and services not financed by the IDA would be procured in accordance with the National
Public Procurement Legislation. The General Procurement Notice has been published in the January 31,
2000 issue of the United Nations 'Development Business'.
Procurement responsibilities: Responsibility for all procurement would rest with the PIU, which
is already in place for the implementation of the ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. An assessment
of DWR/PIU capacity to implement project procurement in accordance with the criteria outlined in Annex
3 of the LACI Implementation Handbook was completed. This review addressed the legal aspects,
procurement cycle management, organization and functions of the procurement unit in the PIU, support and
control systems, record keeping and staffing. The review assessed the risks (institutional, political,
procedural, etc.) that may negatively affect the ability of the PIU to carry out procurement processes. The
Kyrgyz Republic has a public procurement law which is based on principles of economy, efficiently and
transparency. It has an independent public procurement agency which is active in ensuring effective
implementation of the public procurement law. Nevertheless this is a "high risk" country from the
procurement point of view. There are two reasons for this: (i) it will take some time before the provisions
of the procurement law are translated into practice; and (ii) the economic atmosphere in the country in
which the law operates is not yet conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes.
The PIU is currently fully staffed with national experts, recruited on competitive basis. It has, so
far, performed satisfactorily and has been effective in project management. The staff of the PIU includes a
full-time procurement specialist, who has received training and acquired substantial experience in
procurement under the IRP and FEP, and one full-time assistant. In February 2000 a comprehensive
post-review was carried out for the IRP and FEP in order to provide an opinion on performance of the PIU
regarding procurement activities and contract management. Although the PIU is relatively new with 1.5
years experience in procurement management, the procurement activities, including record keeping, are
generally satisfactory. During 1999 a total of 29 contracts valued at over US$ 8 million were procured.
Much of the procurement related to NCB and Minor Works packages for rehabilitation and reconstruction
works. No major problems were identified.
In collaboration with the PIU an action plan has been prepared to strengthen PIU's capacity to
administer procurement in an effective and transparent way for the proposed On-farm Irrigation Project as
well. This includes: (i) the recruitment of a second procurement specialist before Credit effectiveness; (ii)
the two procurement specialists would each participate in at least one international procurement training
course to enhance their knowledge of procurement. The training budget includes an allocation for such
training; (iii) the two procurement specialists would acquire at least basic working knowledge of the
English language to effectively handle procurement and interaction with IDA; (iv) a procurement book
- 58 -



containing the Bank's standard procurement documents will be provided to the PIU just after Board
presentation; (v) the project launch workshop is scheduled for September 2000 and will devote adequate
time to updating the PIU staff procurement skills. During this workshop, the contents of the procurement
book would be explained to the PIU staff; (vi) during the first year of project implementation two
supervision missions with the participation of a procurement specialist would be carried out, not only to
conduct ex-post reviews but also to provide guidance and support to the PIU in carrying out the
procurement plan and activities; (vii) the PIU will establish a computerized procurement monitoring system
within six months of project effectiveness; and (viii) a minimum of 1 in 5 contracts representing different
procurement methods (not subject to prior Bank review) would be reviewed on an ex-post basis.
The project would work with many WUAs, who would have major say in the rehabilitation works
to be implemented within the command areas under their management. All procurement responsibility
would, however, rest with the PIU. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected
and recorded and quarterly reports would be sent to the IDA. These reports would also indicate: (i) revised
cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions and
completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works: The project would carry out rehabilitation works of irrigation distribution and supply
systems throughout the Kyrgyz Republic. Most of the civil works contracts are estimated to cost from US$
60,000 to US$ 345,000. Sub-projects would be selected depending on the demand from water users and
their participation in setting up WUAs. Therefore, the procurement plan would be updated by the PIU
every three months in the quarterly report for the IDA's review and approval. Given the anticipated small
contract values and the dispersed location of the sub-projects, Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB),
which shall have to be used for contracts valued above US$ 500,000, is not expected.
Works estimated to cost less than US$ 500,000 million shall be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 19.3 million (US$ 14.7 million
to be financed by IDA). The implementation of the IRP and FEP has shown that there is a sufficient
number of contractors with adequate capacity (equipment, machinery and operators) to carry out the civil
works contracts envisaged under the OIP. The performance of national contractors has so far been
satisfactory and works have generally been completed within agreed contract periods and budgets. The
construction works under the OIP would be relatively simple and straightforward, comprising mainly
earthworks and concrete works, and sufficient interest and capacity is envisaged to provide a competitive
environment.
For Works contracts valued at less than US$ 100,000 simplified NCB procedures may be used.
Semi-annually the PIU will advertise the expected works contracts valued at less than US$ 100,000 for the
next period of six months in a national and relevant regional newspapers. Expressions of interest generated
from these advertisement will be used to prepare a list of domestic contractors, who will receive the
Invitation to Bid whenever a package is ready for tendering. The simplified NCB document for smaller
works (September 1995) may be used. Contractors will be able to apply to be on the list at any time.
Goods: The goods to be financed in the project will include vehicles, motor cycles, office
equipment, fumiture, field testing equipment and various small equipment for WUAs (e.g. office and
maintenance equipment). ICB shall be used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost more than US$
100,000 per contract. International Shopping (IS), based on a comparison of quotes from at least three
- 59 -



suppliers from two eligible countries, shall be used for contracts estimated to cost between US$ 50,000 and
US$ 100,000 per package. The aggregate value for IS is not expected to exceed US$ 1.53 million (US$
1.07 to be financed by IDA; the balance is for duties and taxes). National Shopping (NS) procedures shall
be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$
271,000 (US$ 190,000 to be financed by IDA). The procurement of the equipment for the WUAs will be
done by the PIU through a number of packages throughout the project duration. The composition of the
packages will depend to a large extent on the demand of the WUAs. The procurement plan for goods
would be updated by the PIU every three months for the quarterly report for the Association's review and
approval.
Consultant Services: Additional PIU staff would be hired as individual consultants (6 contracts
for US$ 223,000 equivalent in aggregate; IDA financed). Individual consultants would be recruited to
provide technical assistance to the WUA support units (51 contracts for US$ 1,454,000 equivalent in
aggregate). All individual consultants shall be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants
Guidelines. The PIU will be responsible for the recruitment of all consultants, which will be done on a
competitive basis over a three year period. For most positions, standardized terms of reference would be
prepared by the PIU, to be approved by the IDA. The PIU will advertise the positions in national and
regional newspapers. A long-list will be prepared by the PIU. The bid committee (composed of the PIU
Deputy Project Director, PIU Procurement Specialist and DWR and State Committee on Foreign
Investment and Economic Development (Goskominvest) representatives) would select the most qualified
candidate for each position. A consulting firm for the preparation of design and supervision of construction
works that are both beyond the scope of the WUA support units shall be procured according to Quality-
and Cost-based Selection (QCBS; one contract for US$ 241,000 equivalent). Until the completion of the
IRP in 2004, the contract with the audit firm for the IRP will be amended to include the annual audit of the
OIP accounts. This will allow for consistency and make sure that through one audit there will be an
overview of the whole financial management situation of all projects under the responsibility of the PIU.
The contract for these audits is automatically renewable every year subject to satisfactory performance
(one contract under single source selection for US$ 57,100). Audit services from 2004 to the completion of
the OIP would be newly procured through Least-Cost Selection (one contract for US$ 40,500).
Training: Training and study tours shall be carried out according to a training plan, which the
PIU will revise semi-annually and submit to the IDA for approval prior to implementation. The total
training budget is US$ 597,000.
Incremental Operating Costs: The project will finance incremental operating costs of about US$
2.03 million (US$ 1,07 million to be financed by IDA), consisting of incremental operating costs for the
PIU and WUA support units, incurred as a result of OIP implementation. These costs would include: (i)
operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles used under the project; (ii) salaries and travel
allowance paid to WUA support unit staff engaged under the Project and local travel allowance for PIU
staff (the long-term staff for the WUA support units will be hired as consultants, but will be absorbed in
the govemnment structure at the end of the project (82 contracts for US$ 391,000 equivalent in aggregate));
(iii) office rent and utilities; and (iv) office supplies and telecommunication. Recurrent costs will be
procured on the basis of an annual budget to be agreed with the Association. IDA will finance as follows:
80 percent through December 31, 2003; 60 percent through December 31, 2004; and 30 percent through
December 31, 2005.
- 60 -



Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement
Method
Other
ICB            NCB           See footnotes      N.B.F.        Total
A. Works                                                         19,312.3                                      19,312.3
(14,678.0)                                   (14,678.0)
B. Goods
1. Vehicles                              312.6                                201.8                      514.4
(218.9)                             (141.2)                    (360.1)
2. Equipment                             254.7                                333.1 2                    587.8
(178.3)                             (232.0)                    (410.3)
3. WUA equipment                                                            1,262.1                    1,262.1
(883.5)                    (883.5)
C. Services
1. PIU                                                                        223.0 4                    223.0
(223.0)                    (223.0)
2. Training                                                                   597.3                      597.3
(597.3)                    (597.3)
3. Technical Assistance for WUA Development                                 1,454.3 5                  1,454.3
(1,454.3)                  (1,454.3)
4. Audit Services                                                              97.6 6                     97.6
(97.6)                     (97.6)
5. Design and Supervision                240.9                                                           240.9
(240.9)                                                        (240.9)
D. Recurrent Costs
1. Incremental Operations & Maintenance                                                  2,705.9       2,705.9
of On-Farm Irrigation Infrastructure
2. Oblast level (Salaries)                                                    129.7                      129.7
(70.7)                     (70.7)
3. Rayon level (Salaries)                                                     226.6                      226.6
(113.6)                    (113.6)
4. WUA central unit (Salanes)                                                  34.5                       34.5
(19.7)                     (19.7)
5. PIU operating Costs                                                        183.7                      183.7
(includes support staff)                                                    (105.3)                    (105.3)
6. WUA support unit operating costs                                         1,450.6                    1,450.6
(766.8)                    (766.8)
Total Project Cost                                808.2          19,312.3            6,194.4     2,705.9      29,020.8
Total IDA                                        (638.1)        (14,678.0)          (4,705.1)         -       (20,021.3)
% IDA                                             79%              76%                76%           0%           69%
% Type of Total Project Cost                        3%               66%                21%           9%          100%
us$
.000) Total Cost    IDA
IS=      87.0     (61.0)
NS=     115.0     (81.0)
2  IS=     177.0    (124.0)
NS=     156.0    (109.0)
3 IS=    1,262.0    (884.0)
for a total of:
[TIS =   1,526.0   01069.0)o19 contracts
|  NS=    2710    0t90.0) 10 Contracts
4 Individual Consultants - 6 contracts for (US$ 277,000; IDA)
5 Individual Consultants - Specialized TA of 51 contracts for (US$ 1.45 mil; IDA)
6 Extenstion of IRP contract - I contract extension (US$ 57,100; IDA) for audit through 2003. One contract (LCS) for the audit from 2004 to
the completion of the project (US$40,500; IDA)
QCBS - 1 contact (US$ 241,000; IDA)
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts for goods will be subject to prior review by the Association. Also the first two
packages of each NCB, IS and NS procurement would be subject to the Association's prior review. This
would include all documentation, including bidding documents, draft contract and evaluation report.
For consultant services, prior review by the Association would be required for all terms of
reference irrespective of estimated contract value. Consulting firm contracts estimated to cost more than
US$ 100,000 would be subject to the Association's prior review (review would include the Request for
Proposals, the Terms of Reference, short-list, results of evaluations and draft contracts). For contracts
with individual consultants costing US$ 40,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference
and terms of employment would be funished to the Association for its review and approval. All other
contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Association on a random basis.
Any proposal that does not correspond to the eligible criteria established in the Procurement Plan
will be subject to special consideration and prior review of the Bank.
Any training related expenses (tuition, fee, transportation, per diem and trainers' fee) would require
prior approval.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Stubjec to
rThreshold             Procurement               Prior Riview
Expnditure Category       (U$$ thousan)                Method                 (US$ millions)
1. Works                         >500                     ICB
<500                    NCB                       0.70
2. Goods                         >100                     ICB                      0.57
<100                      IS                      0.10
<50                      NS                      0.03
3. Services                      >100                    QCBS                      0.24
>40                   Ind. Cons.                  1.30
Audit Services               SSS                      0.06
Audit Services               LCS                      0.04
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 3.1 million (US$
2.7 million of which to
be financed by IDA)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 20.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of six
years. The proposed closing date for the project will be March 31, 2007. A condition for disbursement of
expenditures made in respect of Works would be that the Association has approved a report that
summarizes the criteria and milestones for each WUA establishment and participation, as well as the
proposed rehabilitation works, including cost estimates and financial analysis (see Annex 2). Payment for
most of these works would be on the basis of Statement of Expenditures. The PIU should attach the
no-objection for the rehabilitation of each system to withdrawal applications. Table C below shows the
allocation of Credit proceeds.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Catego         [Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
Works                                       13.20                      75 percent
Goods                                       1.60           100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 70 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
Consultants' Services, including Audits     2.10                       100 percent
and Training
Incremental Operating Costs                 1.10             80 percent of expenditures incurred
through December 31, 2003; 60 percent
through December 31, 2004; 30 percent
through December 31, 2005; and 0
percent thereafter
Unallocated                                 2.00
Total Project Costs                         20.00
Total                                      20.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will initially be disbursed under the Association's established procedures.
Disbursements made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be as follows for each
expenditure category: (a) goods under contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 each; (b) works under
contracts costing less than US$ 500,000 each; (c) services under contracts less than US$ 100,000 each for
consulting firms and less than US$ 40,000 each for individual consultants; (d) training; (e) audit fees; and
(f) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify. Supporting
documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made available to the Association during
project supervision and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be made against presentation of full
documentation relating to those expenditures. PIU's accounting staff would receive further training, for
which funds have been allocated under the training budget. During the project launch workshop there will
be a session on proper preparation of withdrawal applications, including the preparation and submission of
- 63 -



needed supporting documents.
Although project funds will be initially disbursed under the Association's established procedures,
there is the option of disbursing on the basis of submitted Project Management Reports (PMRs). A change
to PMR-based disbursements will however only be made at the mutual agreement of the Government and
the Association and will be considered once the PIU is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is
considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management information. A change to
PMR-based disbursements will be considered by December 31, 2001.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special
Account (SA) in a commercial bank to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The Association would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$ 1.0 million.
Initially the allocation would be limited to US$ 0.50 million, until disbursements have reached SDR 3.0
million, at which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment
of the SA would be submitted at least every three months and will be supported by the necessary
documentation including the SA bank statement and a reconciliation of this bank statement to the project's
accounting records. The SA will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The PIU will maintain a separate bank account (in local currency) to receive and manage
Govemrment counterpart contributions.
Financial management
Financial Management Assessment: The overall responsibility for financial management of the
project will rest with the PIU. The PIU already includes two accountants and additional accountants will
be recruited as required during project implementation. The Association conducted a financial management
assessment of the PIU and concluded that the financial management arrangements satisfy the Association's
minimum requirements. A fuller description of the project's financial management arrangements, including
the project's flow of funds, may be found in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Financial Management Risks - Financial Management Capacity: The financial management
capacity within the Kyrgyz Republic is currently a subject of review by the Association in conjunction with
the participation of the Kyrgyz Republic in the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) initiative.
However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the
financial management capacity within the Kyrgyz Republic have been mitigated for this project by the use
of the IRP PrU for project implementation, including financial management, drawing upon its experience of
projects of this nature, and of international auditors for the audit of the project. The specific weaknesses of
the PIU in respect of its financial management capacity are currently being addressed by an internationally
recruited financial management consultant, however, these weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary
responsibilities of the Borrower nor of the Association.
Financial Management Risks - Special Account: In November, 1999, IDA updated its assessment
of the Kyrgyz banking sector and concluded that a small number of banks did not meet IDA's eligibility
criteria to house IDA projects' Special Accounts. Government and IDA continue to monitor the
performance of the banking sector and have reached agreement with some of the ineligible banks on the
steps required to achieve full eligibility in order to increase the number of banks from which to choose.
The PIU will open and maintain a Special Account in one of the available eligible banks.
- 64 -



Project Management Reports (PMRs): The formats of the PMRs were agreed upon during
negotiations and are included within the PIP. The PIU will produce the full set of PMRs for every calendar
quarter throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending June 30, 2001, however, PMRs
lA (Project Sources and Uses of Funds) and 1B (Uses of Funds by Project Activity) will be produced for
every calendar quarter beginning with the period ending December 31, 2000.
Audit 4rrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Association and on terms of reference acceptable to the Association are already being satisfactorily
performed in respect of the other IDA-financed projects for whose financial management the PIU is
currently responsible. The contract for these audits is automatically renewable subject to satisfactory
performance and will therefore be extended in scope to include the OIP for the year ending December 31,
2000. This will allow for consistency and make sure that through one audit there will be an overview of the
whole financial situation of all IDA projects under the management of the PIU. After the completion of the
IRP in 2004, services for audits until completion of the OIP would be newly procured through Least-Cost
Selection. The results of the audit of the OIP will be available within six months of the end of every fiscal
year and the cost of the audit will be financed by the credit.
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prect Schedule'                                     Planned                       Actual
(At final PCD stage).
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        23                            25
First Bank mission (identification)               04/01/98                      04/01/98
Appraisal mission departure                       11/29/99                      02/06/2000
Negotiations                                     02/21/2000                     04/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     10/01/2000
Prepared by:
The Department of Water Resources, with assistance from FAO and a team of individual
short-term consultants in the field of WUA development, engineering, sociology, economy, agronomy and
law.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD grant of US$ 599,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality 
Joop Stoutjesdijk                  Task Team Leader / Irrigation Engineer
Joma Mohamadi                      Task Team Leader (until June 1999)
Joseph Goldberg                    Sector Leader
Gotz Schreiber                     Program Team Leader / Agricultural Economist
Naushad Khan                       Procurement Specialist
Stan Peabody                       Social Scientist
Orunbek Shamkanov                  Operations Officer
Ranjan Ganguli                     Financial Management Specialist
Nikolai Soubbotin                  Legal Counsel
Rohan Selvaratnam                  Financial Analyst
Hannah Koilpillai                  Disbursement Officer
Jenny Corso                        Project Assistant
Dick Reidinger                     Agricultural Economist (Peer Review)
Ashok Subramanian                  Water Institutions Development Specialist (Peer Review)
Geert Diemer                       WUA Specialist (Peer Review)
Nirmala Saraswat                   Environmental Specialist (Review)
Tom Ward                           Costab
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, including:
*   Project costs;
*   Procurement arrangements
*   Procurement plan;
*   Disbursement arrangements;
*   Implementation Schedule; and
*   Terms of References.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Various Aide Memoires, Back-to Office Reports and Intemal Memos;
*   Financial Management Assessment (by Financial Management Specialist; March 31, 2000);
*   Country Procurement Assessment Report (April 15, 1998);
*   Assessment of the Capacity of the Implementation Agency to Conduct Procurement (January
2000).
C. Other
*   Identification Report by FAO Investment Center (No date):
- Main Report;
Annex 1: Irrigated Farming;
- Annex 2: On-farm Ihrigation Infrastructure;
- Annex 3: Social Assessment.
*   Report on review of water users association Development Needs and Opportunities (May
1999);
o   Preparation Report on water users associations development and strengthening (August 1999,
updated November 1999).
*   Report on Irrigation Rehabilitation Needs (May 1999);
* Preparation report on irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation and operation and
maintenance needs for farms in Chui oblast (June 1999; in conjunction with ADB's Chui Area
Agricultural Development Project);
*   Preparation report on irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation and operation and
maintenance needs for farms in Osh and Jalal-Abad oblasts (August 1999).
*   On-farm Irrigation Project - Economic Aspects (August 1999);
*   Economic Analysis (January 2000).
*   Report on Social Aspects related to Irrigated Farming (May 1999).
*   Social Diagnosis - Chui Oblast (June 1999; in conjunction with ADB's Chui Area Agricultural
Development Project).
*   Social Diagnosis - Osh and Jalal-Abad Oblasts (August 1999).
- 67 -



*   Report on Agronomy Aspects (May 1999).
o   Report on the Legal Framework for water users associations (May 1999);
*   Mission report on legal aspects, including preparation of water users association law (August
1999);
*   Resolution on Water Users Associations in rural areas;
*   The Law of the Kyrgyz Republic on Water;
*   Law of the Kyrgyz Republic on Water Users Associations (January 2000).
*Including electronic files
-68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions              disbursements
Project ID      FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA          Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
PD40721        1998 Kyrgyz Republic              AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                              0.00       14.98         0.00        13.36       2.00       0.00
P045631        1996 Kyrgyz Republic              FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                              0.00        3.40         0.00         1.27       1.39       0.00
P062682        1999 Kyrgyz Republic              FLOOD EMERGENCY                                   0.00       10.00          0.00        8.72       2.70        0.00
P008523        1996 Kyrgyz Republic              HEALTH                                            0.00       18.50          0.00        2.45       0.14        0.00
P046042        1998 Kyrgyz Republic             IRRIGATION REHAB.                                  0.00       35.00          0.00       28.47       0.53        0.00
P008519        1996 Kyrgyz Republic              POWER & DIST. HEAT                                0.00       35.00          0.00       22.47       7.37       16.88
P008524        1995 Kyrgyz Republic              PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.                               0.00       15.00          0.00       11.55      12.63        0.00
P064585        1999 Kyrgyz Republic              RUR FIN 2                                         0.00       15.00          0.00       14.92       0.50        0.00
P008520        1997 Kyrgyz Republic              RURAL FINANCE                                     0.00       16.00          0.00        3.65       -0.93       0.00
P008513        1996 KyrgyzRepublic               SHEEP&WOOLIMPROV.                                 0.00       11.60         0.00         5.70       2.47        0.00
P008515        1995 Kyrgyz Republic              SOCIAL SAFETY NET                                 0.00       17.00         2.06         0.79       2.85        0.68
P038569        1999 Kyrgyz Republic              SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.                               0.00       36.50          0.00       17.95      17.88        0.00
P006518        1994 Kyrgyz Republic              TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                0.00       18.00          0.00         1.14      0.53       0.00
Total:         0.00      245.98          2.06      132.44      50.06      17.56
- 69 -



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1996                Demirbank Kyrgyz                 0.00    0.45     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.45     0.00     0.00
1995                Kumtor Gold                    22.50     0.00    10.00     0.00    22.50    0.00    10.00     0.00
1999                SEF Altyn-Ajydar                 0.30    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.15    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:         22.80     0.45    10.00    0.00    22.65     0.45    10.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi      Partic
1996               Demirbank Kyrgyz                 2000.00      0.00       0.00   2000.00
2000                SEF KICB                           0.00       0.00    1400.00      0.00
1999               SEF KYRGYZ MIS                    470.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       2470.00       0.00    1400.00   2000.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Europe 6
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                Kyrgyz   Central      Lowr
Republic      Asia  Income       Development diamond
1998
Population. mid-vear (millions)                       4.7       473     3,5tS                 Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method. USS                    350     2,190       520
GNP (Atfas method. US$ bidions)                       1.7     1,039     1,844
Average annual growth. 1992-98 
Population (%J                                        0.7       0.1       1,7
Labor force (V.o)                                     1.,1      0.0       1.,9    GNP           <'Gross
Most recent esmlnate (latest year available, 19-98i                               capita                       enroiment
PovertY (% of population b410w nationr povertv line)  51
Urban population (% of total Pooulation)              40         6S       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67         69        63
Infant mortat v (per 1,000live births)                28         23       g9
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)              "          ..       ..                Access to safe water
Access Io safe water (%6 of poaulation)                75        ..        74
Illiteracy (16 cOf pulation age 15+)                  97          4        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-ge population)   104       100       106                 Kyrgyz Republic
Male                                               106        101      113                  Low-income group
femate                                              103        99       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1997      199      E
Economic ratios'
GDP tUSS bittions)                                              1.8      16
Gross domestic investmenV/GDP                 ..       .,      21.7      10.0                    Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP              ..      ..      38.3      37.0
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                     ..      ..      13.8    -10.9
Gross national savinos/GDP                     .               1 3.9    -12.6
Current account balancelGDP                    ..      ..      -7.8    -22.6      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          , ,              37        4       Sag                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..      ..      81.9      96.9     Savings                      Is
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..      12.0      18.6
Present value of debtGDP                                       37.6         -
Present value of debtUexports                  .        .      96.8
Indebtedness
1976-6  1987-98     1997       1998   1999-43
(avorage annual gowt/h)
GDP                     ..                   7.2      9S9       1.8       2.0              -- Kyrgyz Republic
GNP Per capta                        ..      8.7      6 7       -2.0      2.0                   Low-income group
Exports of ooods and services        ..    15.2      201       -11.5      2.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%6 of GOP)                                                                       4
Aqriculture                                   ..       ..      44.6      43.6    40
Industrv                                      ..       ..      22.8      21.6    20 -r,
Manufacturing                                ..      ..       17.9      18.9     0
Services                                       ..      ..      32.6      34.9    .20                            97   r8
Private consumption                           ..       ..      69.9      93.6    -40
General qovemment consumption                 ..       ..      16.3      17.3                    0G1 l     G    P
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      46.2      58.0    -
1976-86  1987-98     1997      1998
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       7.0       6.0    40
Industrv                                      ..       ..       5.0       5.0    20             .,.
Manufacturing                               ..       ..         ..
Services                                       ..      ..      20.2      -2.6   ,20                             97
Private consumption                           ..       ..        ..
General government consumption                ..40
Gross domestc investment                      ..       ..        ..        ..   -60
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      11.7      27.7               -  Exports     C  1 mports
Gross national product
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-aroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 71 -



Kyrgyz Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1997      1998       Inflation (/O)
Domestfc prices                                                                         1,200.
(% change)                                                                              1200
Consumer prices                                    ..       ..       14.7      18.4      9o -
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..        ..       19.3       8.5      6000
Government finance                                                                       300
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        o       I
Current revenue                                    ..       ..       15.8      18.1               93   94   95    96   97   90
Current budget balance                            ..        ..       -5.2      -3.4                -GDP deflator  O- CPI
Overall surplus/deficit (accrual)                 ,,        ,        -9.0    -10.0      -
TRADE
1976    1986       1997      1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..        ..       631       535      1,000
Electric energy                                 ..        ..        83         26
Gold and gold products                          ..        ..        185       192       750
Manufactures                                    ..        ..       204        181                             _         l0
Total imports (cif)                               .. 20              725       870       000
Food                                             .        .         87         89       250
Fuel and energy                                  .                 200       207
Capital goods                                   1.        .         23        173        0
92   93   94   95   96          98
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..         97        94
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       ..         97        94                rsExports       HImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..        ..       100       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (Y)
(USS miogions)
Exports of goods and services                      .        ..       676       598         |  l 1       m+li      
Imports of goods and services81                                                93
Resource balance                                                    -141      -338       s.
Net income                                                           -65       -76      .10
Net current transfers                             ..        ..        68        50
Current account balance                           ..        ..      -138      -365
Financing items (net)                             ..        ..       221       359
Changes in net reserves                            .         .         3         6      -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..        ..       200       194
Conversion rate (DEC, locaIfUS$)                   ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..        ..      1,444     1,565
IBRD                                            ..       ..          0         0                          0G 15
IDA                                              .        ..       267       333     E                                333
Total debt service                                                    81       112            F: 366
IBRO                                             .        .          0         0
IDA                                              .        .          2         2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                          c. 18o
Official grants                                 ..       ..         65        48
Official creditors                              ..       ..        172       225     |
Private creditors                               ..       ..          8       -26
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..         83       102             E: 406
Portfolio equity                                ..       ..         25        26                                 D: 265
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       ..         60       102      A-IBRD                        E-sBilateral
Disbursements                                   ..       ..         66        66      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                            ,.       ..          0         0      C- IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       ..       ..         66        66
Interest payments                               ..       ..          2         2
Net transfers                                   ..       ..         66        66
Development Economics                                                                                                       9122199
- 72 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30709
70                                                                                                     75                                                                                                       ES
KAZAKH SNKAZAKHSTAN
KAZAKHSTAN                                                           T. A-bA AA
HLA                                                                                                                                                YKL"A AI
, -  4   {   ttAL;    A                   8            A            s         S~~~~~~SY DARYA                          =                               ti- 
U Z R E  K 5  _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                    0
,           ,<                e                  ' BBAT                                                                                                                     KYRGYZ  U
J !r ->  t KEN  - ,5 = 5t')  >-'                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS (IN METERS)
T A J I K I S T                       A        NYZYL-SUU/AMU DAR                                                                 RAS /                                           RI: =AIN RO ADS , ,                                ABOVE
70                                      r                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                           2000-2999
I   I  s.e   T.MuisaB  ((C5  OBLAST (REGIONI CAPITALS                                                                                        1500-1999
(r5~                          A                                                                                                                                                         0uAil ' i '.1'< PUCElA  O SELECTED CITIES  -0=I
KAZAKHSTAN  ~    4UURATIO                                                                                                                                                                            1000-1499
it~ 4-s   t\  /   2 5^g;l   KAZAKHSTAN  [DERrl l                         \                                                                               -E-  OBLAST (REGION)BOUNDARIES
..  MP'an 1; ..... V _'\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\> r / _ .- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESINTRNAIONL BUNDRIE
%'<p !  -7@ t           B Ikn h         Oci
'a" -   \.1 9,_<KYRGY7REP.'-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0(  1001(((
ISLAMIC                  ""S,<"1                              T1... .,(Ad ddb ,oMop(e.q,mTolh,W,dd9                                                                                                                                     0 50 IOU __ nKd-_m e b _ _
RPUBLC     .       -    .,/ I  W-             CHINA           (5,1    c       AAOA          r A                                                                                                                       I         I
SF lEAN  "                                                      ,,S,,p,  p1A'                                                                                                                   I
AFGHANISTAN    L                                                                                                                                                                  o ,  =   070AOddRA,"  0  25  5s  75
MAY 2000



