Report No. PID6851
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-On-Farm Irrigation (@+) ...
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage
Project ID                       KGPE49723
Borrower(s)                      GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 14, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 6, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Agricultural Growth: Agriculture is the mainstay of the Kyrgyz economy,
consistently accounting for about 45 percent of Gross Development product
(GDP) and close to 50 percent of employment, particularly in the rural areas
where two-thirds of the population resides. Following a significant decline
in agricultural output in the first half of the 1990s resulting from a large
reduction in subsidies and shifts in relative prices for outputs and inputs,
agricultural output has begun recovering in the second half of the decade,
with double digit growth recorded during 1996 and 1997 and growth of around 3
percent during the past two years. However, significant obstacles and
challenges lie ahead if an acceptable rate of growth is to be maintained.
The sector is still caught in a cycle of low profitability resulting from
weak domestic demand, poor access to export markets, an underdeveloped
internal marketing infrastructure, and low levels of investment leading to
further declines in the value of capital assets. Farmers' perceived
constraints to profitable agriculture include lack of machinery, fuel and
fertilizer; shortage of credit; lack of technical services; market access and
business experience; and deteriorated irrigation and drainage systems. The
Government has placed high priority on growth in the agriculture sector in
its strategy for economic recovery.
Irrigation Sustainability: The Kyrgyz Republic is generally well endowed
with water resources, much of it originating from snow and glacier melt. The
average annual runoff in the country is 47 billion m3, of which, by
international agreement, 25 percent can be retained. About 90 percent of
this water is used for agricultural purposes. Precipitation varies greatly
with topography as well as altitude and ranges from 130 to 680 mm per year,
up to half of it falling inside the agricultural growing season from April to
September, and is generally inadequate to support anything other than
extensive subsistence cultivation of a few drought resistant crops.
Consequently irrigation is a key input for reliable crop production.
About 1.07 million ha have been developed for irrigation or over 80 percent
of the arable land in the country. Some 765,000 ha receives water through



main and inter-farm systems under the responsibility of the Department of
Water Resources (DWR), while the remainder comprises schemes with independent
abstraction works. Irrigation water is predominantly gravity-diverted and
surface-applied. Less than 100,000 ha throughout the country is under lift
irrigation, most of it low-lift and including 37,000 ha under sprinkler
irrigation, and about 150,000 ha has drainage facilities, especially in Chui
oblast.
Lack of Funding for the Irrigation Sub-sector: Available funds for the
maintenance of main irrigation infrastructure have been far below the
required level during the past decade, as a result of which the
infrastructure is falling into disrepair. Government adheres to the concept
that users should pay for water delivery services if the off-farm irrigation
infrastructure is to continue functioning. Water users have contributed to
the operational budget of the DWR through water charges, that were first
introduced in 1995. The proceeds remain limited, because the water charge
remains low.
Government has insufficient funds for the rehabilitation and modernization of
the main irrigation infrastructure, which would be needed to maintain the
supply of water to users and bring the irrigation systems up to efficient
standards. Large investments are needed to make up for years of neglect, a
start of which has been made through the IDA funded Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (IRP; FY97). The rehabilitation and institutional developments under
that project are aimed at improving the timely and adequate water delivery to
the hydroposts of the former state and collective farms, which is of course
the first priority in sustaining irrigation services.
The dissolution of the state and collective farms created a vacuum in
responsibility for operation and maintenance of local irrigation and drainage
systems. Financial contributions by the users have been negligible and in-
kind contributions have been made very irregularly. The lack of incentives
and funds for proper O&M and rehabilitation of the infrastructure continues
to lead to serious deterioration of the irrigation distribution systems. In
addition, there is a need to adapt the distribution systems and their water
control facilities to the newly emerging structure of varied farm
organizations. As a result, there are problems with equitable and timely
distribution of irrigation water to all users.
Institutional Framework: Ownership of the irrigation facilities on the
former state farms was previously exercised by the farms, while the
irrigation facilities on the collective farms were owned by the members of
the collective, but there is little consistency in who exercises this right
now. By decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR)
the rights were transferred to Village Councils. Given the Councils' limited
staff and financial resources it was technically and economically impossible
to fulfill this O&M responsibility. The Village Councils have in turn
transferred the right to operate and maintain distribution systems to WUAs,
where they have been established. So far, about 80 WUAs have been legally
established, but almost all of them are still in an embryonic stage with very
few financial resources to operate. A program to strengthen and support
these newly established WUAs is not in place. Once well operating WUAs have
been established to manage and maintain the distribution systems, Government
would like to introduce the transfer of higher order irrigation
infrastructure to WUAs and federations of WUAs.
- 2-



2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP) is
to achieve increased crop production, through equitable and sustainable water
distribution on about 160,000 ha of irrigated land across the seven oblasts.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank would bring to the project considerable experience in the
implementation of similar projects world wide, including an increasing number
in the region. The Bank has been and is involved in countries such as
Mexico, China, Albania and Turkey, that are credited with best practices of
participatory development of the irrigation sub-sector and has a wealth of
information available through Knowledge Management web-sites and the Public
Information Center. Also the project would: (i) incorporate appropriate
economic and technical criteria into the planning and design process; (ii)
introduce competitive procurement procedures; and (iii) improve construction
quality control.
4. Description
The project would consist of three components: (i) WUA Strengthening
Services; (ii) Infrastructure Rehabilitation and O&M; and (iii)
Implementation Support.
Component 1: WUA Strengthening Services
WUA Support Units: The project would support the establishment and training
of WUA support units at the DWR central office in Bishkek, oblast DWR offices
and the involved rayon DWR offices. All support units would be integrated in
the respective departments and, consequently, allow these departments to
develop a permanent capacity to establish, train, support and strengthen
WUAs.
Technical Assistance: The project would provide technical assistance (TA) to
provide technical expertise in WUA development as well as training and
provision of knowledge transfer to staff of the support units.
WUA Strengthening: The project is expected to work with approximately 160
WUAs and provide at least 100 training courses. Courses to be developed and
conducted for WUAs would include: promotion seminars, support functions,
governance and administration, financial management, and scheme operation and
maintenance. The project would assist WUAs in developing annual O&M plans,
including costing and determination of Irrigation Service Fees (ISF). The
project would also finance small equipment, such as office equipment, motor
cycles, current meters, tensiometers, etc. to WUAs.
Study Tours: Staff from the DWR at all levels and WUAs would participate in
a number of study tours to countries with experience in WUA development and
transfer of irrigation management. These study tours would provide necessary
exposure to staff, that so far had no chance to interact with staff and water
users in countries where there has been success in activities that are
proposed under this project.
Component 2: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and O&M
-3 -



Distribution Systems: The project would support selective rehabilitation of
irrigation distribution systems under the management of WUAs that have met
certain decision criteria and milestones. The needs would be farm specific,
but would include rehabilitation of lined canals, cleaning of earthen canals
and drains, rehabilitation and construction of structures, construction of
water measuring devices, land leveling, and repair to night storage
reservoirs and scheme roads. It is estimated that the project would
rehabilitate on-farm irrigation infrastructure commanding approximately
160,000 ha under the responsibility of about 80 WUAs.
Inter-farm Systems: The project would give priority to farms within the
command area of systems rehabilitated by the IRP, but it is likely that there
are a number of farms outside this command area with strong interest in WUA
development and readiness to fulfill all selection criteria and milestones.
Some of the off-farm infrastructure supplying these farms would require
rehabilitation as well. This sub-component would fund the necessary
rehabilitation of inter-farm systems, including canal cleaning, lining and
structures.
Design and Supervision: Most of the survey, design and supervision work
would be carried out by staff of the WUA support units at rayon level,
supervised and controlled by the oblast WUA support unit staff. For any
complicated design and supervision works that would be beyond the capacity of
the support units, the project would finance small contracts with private
consulting firms.
Operation and Maintenance: Participating WUAs must develop a plan to achieve
long-term financial viability, which would include step-wise increases in
users contributions, which must eventually reach a level that can sustain the
WUAs as well as the irrigation infrastructure. These incremental recurrent
costs would be fully funded by the beneficiaries.
Component 3: Implementation Support
Project Implementation Unit: The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that has
been established for the implementation of the IRP and Flood Emergency
Project (FEP) would be strengthened with staff and equipment to implement the
OIP as well.
Annual Audit: An audit firm would be hired by the PIU to carry out the
annual audits of the project accounts.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               5.7
IBRD
IDA                                      20
BENEFICIARIES                            2.7
Total Project Cost                       28.4
6. Implementation
Project Duration
Project implementation is anticipated to take six years, from October 2000 to
- 4 -



September 2006. The Credit Closing Date would be March 31, 2007.
Executing Agency and Implementation Arrangements
PIU: The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR) would be
responsible for project implementation. A PIU is operational within the DWR
for the daily management, administration and coordination of the IRP and FEP,
including accounting, procurement, disbursement, management of the Special
Accounts (SA), monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and reporting. This PIU will
be expanded and strengthened to carry out the day-to-day implementation of
the OIP. To facilitate a uniform approach to the irrigation and drainage
activities of the OIP, the Government requested the use of a common PIU.
would be responsible for project implementation.
DWR: The OIP would be implemented throughout the country. The DWR would
develop within its organizational structure an in-house ability to support
WUAs both technically and organizationally. WUA support units would
initially be supported by the project, but would eventually become part of
the existing DWR organizational structure. With an average service area of
2,000 ha per on-farm system and a total irrigation service area of 1.07
million ha, over 500 WUAs need to be formed, which means that there is need
for support units to form and sustain additional WUAs in the Kyrgyz Republic
after the OIP is completed. In general, the units would have responsibility
for WUA promotion, assistance with establishment, organizing workshops,
training to WUAs, technical support and backstopping to WUAs, and monitoring
and evaluation. The units would not only have responsibility for WUAs to be
supported under the OIP.
WUAs: WUAs will be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary participation
in the project. Rehabilitation would only take place after a WUA has shown
commitment to adequate O&M in future, which would include its establishment
as a legal entity, employment of WUA operational staff, participation of WUA
Board members and operational staff in a number of training courses, and
setting of adequate tariff levels for O&M. The decisions for this would be
made in a participatory manner. Rehabilitation would be in response to a WUA
request and members would participate at all stages from identification,
planning, design through construction.
Ministry of Environmental Protection: Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA)
have to be prepared. The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MOEP) has to
receive these EIAs and design documentation for possible review by the State
Ecological Expertise (SEE). It has been agreed with the MOEP that the PIU
would submit on an annual basis lists of schemes for which rehabilitation is
scheduled, with an indication of the planned works. Based on this
information, the MOEP would decide what information it requires. Similar
type works in different schemes may be grouped together and simple type of
works may not need SEE. Rayon based inspectors of the MOEP would provide
environmental monitoring during and after the rehabilitation works.
7. Sustainability
Adequate and regular maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure in the
country would be critical for the sustainability of project benefits. Yet,
the present situation concerning the financing of the O&M of the main and
inter-farm irrigation systems continues to be unsatisfactory. The current
- 5 -



situation with the infrastructure within the former state and collective
farms is even worse. Hardly any resources are generated by the users for O&M
of the distribution infrastructure, resulting in a continuing deterioration
of the infrastructure. The project would put major emphasis on achieving
adequate O&M of the distribution infrastructure. The OIP would work with
those WUAs that are committed to participate according to the set criteria.
Promotion and awareness would also include the importance of paying the full
Irrigation Service Fee (ISF) for the service provided by the DWR. The
proposed change from contracts between each user and the DWR to one contract
between the WUA and the DWR would simplify the collection of the ISF. A
comprehensive financing plan ensuring the full O&M funding would be developed
for each participating WUA. These plans would include action programs for
the gradual taking over of the financing of all O&M costs by the WUAs. In
the interim period, for the part of the off-farm costs still under the
responsibility of the DWR, the Ministry of Finance should commit itself to
sufficient budgetary allocations, as per agreed covenant under the IRP.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from ongoing project implementation in the Kyrgyz Republic and
other Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries suggest that project scope and
design should be simple in view of the country's limited implementation and
coordination capacity. A project should have few components and be focused
on one or few major activities. In addition, projects to be undertaken in
rapidly changing circumstances and with limited reliable information should
be designed to be suitably flexible at implementation, while projects should
foster the understanding among national staff of the need for ensuring the
participation of all stakeholders, particularly beneficiaries, at
implementation.
Worldwide experience in the irrigation sub-sector suggests that in order to
get away from the vicious cycle caused by the lack of investments and
maintenance, poor irrigation service, farmer dissatisfaction, low rates of
fee collection, resulting in even less maintenance, projects should combine a
mix of physical rehabilitation and upgrading, user participation, improved
financial performance and attention to O&M. Effective irrigation projects
should be as much concerned about the policy and institutional aspects of a
project as about physical infrastructure.
Implementation experience shows that projects should: (i) help countries and
beneficiaries make selective investments for rehabilitation and improvements,
with a careful assessment of the needs to make sure that all priority
constraints to improved water service are being addressed; (ii) assist
irrigation agencies and water users in improving their water management
capabilities; (iii) help countries develop or strengthen their legal and
institutional framework for managing water resources and promoting user
participation and management; (iv) assist in enhancing cost-sharing programs
so that water users have access to reliable services and pay higher ISF that
should be sufficient to carry out adequate O&M; (v) concentrate on management
transfer before system improvements; and (vi) help countries design the
delivery of agricultural services so that they complement the irrigation
improvement efforts.
Lessons from other countries such as Mexico and China where O&M of higher
- 6 -



order irrigation systems has been transferred to users has shown that having
support units at the provincial and local irrigation department level
facilitates institutional changes, especially when these units work
effectively with the WUAs as clients rather than as dependencies as in the
past. The WUA support units within DWR should eventually become a part of
the existing organization structure.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed project would finance the rehabilitation
of deteriorated irrigation infrastructure. No new canals or structures that
would allow increase in the delivery capacity of water are envisaged. The
proposed project does not include any investments in dams or involve
resettlement. It has therefore been classified as Category "B" for the
purpose of OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment.
Positive environmental impacts from the implementation of the project
include: (i) reduction of water losses through improved O&M; and (ii) reduced
risk of soil salinization, waterlogging and standing water from improved
drainage. Potential negative impacts of the project are: (i) increased
agrochemical pollution and surface water contamination, resulting from
projected increased use of pesticides and fertilizers, along with improved
availability of irrigation water; (ii) soil erosion associated with the
maintenance of existing practices of agricultural production; (iii)
indiscriminate dumping of excavated sediment deposits and other materials
from the canals, drains and structures; and (iv) environmental damage caused
by contractors during construction activities.
The environmental impact of individual sub-projects was not examined
separately during project preparation. Critical issues related to the
planned overall project investment were identified. An Environmental
Management Plan has been prepared.
The mitigation of item (i) would be addressed by RADS consultants, who will
provide training in proper application techniques, timing and handling of
residues of fertilizers and pesticides. Regular monitoring of drainage and
river water would be carried out by the MOEP. Item (ii) would be addressed
jointly by RADS and WUA support unit staff. They would provide training and
advice in improved irrigation and water management practices, which would
reduce soil erosion within irrigation schemes (it is noted, however, that
most soil erosion takes place upstream of the irrigation schemes, which the
project will not address, but which is part of an ongoing Natural Resources
Management Study). Items (iii) and (iv) would be addressed during the sub-
project design and supervision. Contractors would be required to prevent,
minimize or mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris would
be displaced in an orderly manner, rather than dumped indiscriminately. This
would be described in the standard bidding documents.
On May 13, 1999, a new law on environmental protection and law on ecological
expertise were approved. All civil works, including rehabilitation, would
have to be assessed on ecological impact and mitigation, and have to be
reviewed by the MOEP. During the design stage of each sub-project any
possible environmental factors would be reviewed by the design consultants.
Necessary mitigating measures would be integral parts of design and
-7 -



implementation. The MOEP would have the option to carry out a State
Ecological Expertise for each or a cluster of similar sub-projects.
Environmental monitoring during and after construction would be carried out
by rayon inspectors of the MOEP.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Joop Stoutjesdijk
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3754
Fax:        (202) 614-0583
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 11, 2000.
- 8 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
9



