                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000866




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-33690)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.9 MILLION
                        (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                    FOR AN

                        ON-FARM IRRIGATION PROJECT




                               November 26, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective 09/01/2008)

                    Currency Unit = KGS
                         KGS 1.00 = US$0.028
                          US$1.00 = KGS 36.0
                         SDR 1.00 = US$0.64

                              FISCAL YEAR
                    JANUARY 1 ­ DECEMBER 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable Program Lending
ADB        Asian Development Bank
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDS        Country Development Strategy
CSU        Central Support Unit
DWR        Department of Water Resources
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
I&D        Irrigation and Drainage
IDA        International Development Association
IRP        Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ISF        Irrigation Service Fee
MOAWRPI    Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Processing Industry
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOM        Management, Operation and Maintenance
NIRSAP     National Irrigation Rehabilitation Strategy and Action Plan
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
OIP        On-Farm Irrigation Project
ORT        Oblast Rehabilitation Team
OSU        Oblast Support Unit
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
RSU        Raion Support Unit
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SU         Support Unit
USAID      US Agency for International Development
WB         World Bank
WMIP       Water Management Improvement Project
WUA        Water Users Association


                      Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director: Annette Dixon
           Sector Manager (acting): Holger Kray
               Project Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
                  ICR Team Leader: Benoist Veillerette (FAO)

                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                On-Farm Irrigation Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 41
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 45
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 47
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 56
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 57
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 59
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     On-Farm Irrigation
Country:                Kyrgyz Republic       Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P049723               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33690
ICR Date:               11/27/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 14.9M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 14.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Water Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/24/2002    Effectiveness:         04/08/2003         04/08/2003
Appraisal:             03/25/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/30/2002    Mid-term Review:                          05/03/2004
                                     Closing:               03/31/2007         05/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                     Unsatisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             25                 25
Irrigation and drainage                                       75                 75


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other rural development                                    Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                           Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Annette Dixon                   Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:           Holger A. Kray                  Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:      Joop Stoutjesdijk               Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Team Leader:          Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Primary Author:       Benoist Veillerette



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the On-farm Irrigation Project is to achieve increased crop
production through reliable and sustainable water distribution on about 160,000 ha of
irrigated land across the country's seven oblasts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase crop yields in the project farms by ten percent within two years after
                rehabilitation works have been completed.
                                                                               No conclusive
                                                                               evidence as yet, as
                                                                               collected data not
                Yields of crops depressed 10% yield increase                   sufficiently reliable
Value           by at least 10 percent,     two years after                    to fully assess
quantitative or because of inadequate andcompletion of                         changes in crop
Qualitative)    untimely water              rehabilitation                     yields and
                distribution within farms. works.                              insufficient time
                                                                               between completion
                                                                               of rehabilitation
                                                                               and end-of-project.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2007                         05/31/2008

Comments        A comparison between groups that received different assistance showed that

(incl. %        yields tend to be better (almost 12% on average) in WUAs that received

achievement)    assistance for training and rehabilitation, compared to WUAs that did not receive
                any assistance.

Indicator 2 :   On-farm irrigation systems properly operated and maintained after completion of
                rehabilitation work
                                                                               Operation of
                                                                               systems well
                                            WUAs working                       organized. ISF
Value           No formal operational       towards                            increasing and
quantitative or regime of systems and       sustainable O&M                    substantial in-kind
Qualitative)    negligible maintenance.     (as per annual                     maintenance. More
                                            O&M plan).                         than 75% of
                                                                               farmers satisfied
                                                                               with O&M.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2007                         05/31/2008

Comments        Encouraging signs found in relation to system O&M in rehabilitation schemes.

(incl. %        Water management staff, processes and procedures in place and functioning;

achievement)    well established institutional base. Equity of water distribution found to be
                satisfactory.

Indicator 3 :   Distribution within project farms of adequate irrigation water in a timely manner,
                in line with irrigation water requirements.

                                            Distribution                       Significant
                Distribution efficiency                                        improvements for
Value           depressed by 10 percent,    efficiency                         rehabilitated WUAs
quantitative or and water distribution not  improved, with 75                  (121,000 ha) in
Qualitative)    in line with irrigation     percent of farmers                 water users'
                water requirements.         receiving required
                                            water.                             assessment of the
                                                                               reliability,



                                                 iii

                                                                                 adequacy,
                                                                                 timeliness and
                                                                                 equity of water
                                                                                 delivery.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2007                           05/31/2008
Comments        Difficult so far to measure actual efficiency percentages. Majority of farmers
(incl. %        pleased with WUA performance and the improvement in water distribution (see
achievement)    Annex 5).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised          Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of O&M plans developed in detail, fully costed and implemented each
                year after completion of rehabilitation works.
                                                                                 375 WUAs have

Value                                                                            achieved milestone

(quantitative   Zero.                       All rehabilitated                    3, well in excess of

or Qualitative)                             WUAs (about 80).                     the target set, i.e.
                                                                                 O&M plans have
                                                                                 been prepared.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2007                           05/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Milestone 3 -- O&M plan prepared taking into account ISF requirements to cover

achievement)    O&M. Not all plans are related to optimum O&M, but trend is towards this.

Indicator 2 :   At least 160 WUAs established and legally registered, training program started
                that will lead to sustainable WUAs.

                                            A total of 160                       454 WUAs have

                                            WUAs established                     been established
                                                                                 and legally
Value           Zero WUAs established       and registered and                   registered, over
(quantitative   according to the new        20,000 individuals                   50,000 individuals
or Qualitative) WUA law.                    have participated
                                            in awareness                         have participated in

                                            seminars and                         awareness seminars

                                            training courses.                    and training
                                                                                 courses.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2007                           05/31/2008
Comments        Achievement much higher than expected. WUA support without rehabilitation is
(incl. %        also showing positive impact, which shows the importance of WUAs for O&M,
achievement)    even without having a fully operational irrigation system in place.

Indicator 3 :   Collection rates at least 90 percent of estimated tariff within two years after
                completion of rehabilitated works.
                Very low collection rates, At least 90% on                       Average ISR
Value           with nothing collected for rehabilitated                         collection ratio for
(quantitative   use by WUAs. Whatever WUAs 2 years                               rehabilitated WUAs
or Qualitative) was collected was for       after rehabilitation                 is 73% (16 WUAs
                DWR.                        (approx. 80)                         > 90%, 22 WUAs >



                                                 iv

                                                                         80%).
Date achieved 12/31/2001                 12/31/2007                      05/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Rehabilitation works have been completed over 2 years ago on 17 WUAs, which

achievement)   have among the highest collection rates.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived               DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     12/27/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     06/26/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.26
  4     11/30/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.32
  5     01/16/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.38
  6     08/16/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.97
  7     01/21/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  1.31
  8     07/16/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  2.38
  9     12/29/2003          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                  3.02
  10    06/16/2004          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                  4.43
  11    07/16/2004         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                  4.43

  12    01/18/2005          Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                  6.01

  13    06/27/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  8.11
  14    07/21/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  8.57
  15    01/19/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                11.86
  16    09/22/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                16.48
  17    01/23/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                18.21
  18    10/04/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                20.71
  19    05/29/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                21.86



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The agricultural sector in the Kyrgyz Republic went through a sharp recession during the 1990s
as a result of major changes in the macro-economic environment, including changes in terms of
trade and large reductions of subsidies, as well as the rapid deterioration of the former production
system based on collective and state farms. Considering that agriculture was (and still is) the
mainstay of the Kyrgyz economy, the government placed high priority to the agriculture sector in
its strategy for economic recovery. The World Bank (WB) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
prepared in 1998 was also in line with this priority, considering the attainment of long-term
sustainable growth in agriculture as one of the pillars to solve many of the social and economic
issues in the rural areas. One of the major reforms during the second half of the 1990s was a
comprehensive and largely equitable land distribution, resulting in multiple small individual
farms. These newly established private farms faced a number of issues, including lack of access
to inputs, markets, credit, machinery and technical services.

The transition process during the 1990s led to a vacuum in the management, operation and
maintenance (MOM) of on-farm systems and the rapid deterioration of irrigation and drainage
(I&D) infrastructure covering about 1.07 million ha, equivalent to 80 percent of arable land in
the country.1 Irrigation is a critical input into agricultural production and government realized
that it could not allow I&D systems to collapse. In 1995, government introduced an irrigation
service fees (ISF) to charge farmers for water received from the Department of Water Resources
(DWR). The ISF was set by Parliament at a rate of KGS 15 per 1,000 m3, but was doubled in
1999. A 1997 Government Resolution allowed the legal establishment of Water Users
Associations (WUA) and set the basis for the transfer of on-farm irrigation infrastructure to
WUAs. The On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP) was designed to assist government with the
reversal of the deterioration of on-farm I&D infrastructure and the development of WUAs.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the On-farm Irrigation Project was to achieve increased crop
production through reliable and sustainable water distribution on about 160,000 ha of irrigated
land across the country's seven oblasts.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) set three main impact indicators:

    · percentage of operation and maintenance (O&M) needs of on-farm irrigation systems
         covered;
    · distribution of adequate irrigation water in a timely manner, in line with crop water
         requirements; and
    · increase in crop yields by 10 percent.


1   On-farm systems refer to the irrigation and drainage infrastructure that used to be part of the state or collective
    farms.


                                                         1

In addition, three output indicators were provided:

    · number of well-functioning WUAs, with users representation and participation;
    · number of O&M plans developed, fully costed, and implemented; and
    · level and collection rate of irrigation services fees.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There was no formal revision of the PDO, but in late 2006 it became clear that the expected
project command area could not be achieved for various reasons as explained in Section 1.7.
The total command area covered was about 122,000 ha.

The PDO was formulated specifically around increased crop production on a certain project area.
It is now clear that this was of too high an order, as achievement of agricultural production is not
only impacted by irrigation inputs, while it often takes time for farmers to adapt to changing
circumstances. The PDO will be measured again a few years from now, as part of the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the IDA-funded Second On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP-2).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the project were expected to be farm families (water users) in all
seven oblasts of the country through strengthening of as many as 160 WUAs. Out of these, 80
WUAs were also expected to benefit from rehabilitation and O&M improvement of their on-
farm systems servicing 150,000 farm families on 160,000 ha.

The project was also expected to strengthen the capacity of DWR at central and field level
(oblasts and raions), in particular to promote WUAs both through the development of Support
Units (SU) as well as by introducing a client-driven approach in the dealing of public authorities
with WUAs.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of three components:

  (i)   WUA Strengthening Services. This component included support for the establishment
        and training of WUA Support Units at the central DWR office, in the seven oblasts, and
        in an estimated 19 raions. This new support function and the SUs were expected to
        progressively be integrated in DWR. Technical assistance was financed to provide
        training and knowledge transfer to the staff of the SUs. These, in turn, would provide
        promotion and awareness seminars to a minimum of 160 WUAs and strengthen them
        through an estimated 100 training courses in such topics as governance, administration,
        financial management, and irrigation system O&M. On a demand basis, small equipment
        and motor cycles would also be provided to WUAs on a 100 percent cost recovery basis;

  (ii) Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Operation and Maintenance. This component
        included: (i) rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation systems commanding up to 160,000 ha


                                                   2

        under the management of about 80 WUAs where there was strong interest in WUA
        development and readiness to fulfill agreed selection criteria and milestones, as well as
        limited rehabilitation of selective off-farm irrigation infrastructure where the supply of
        water to WUA-managed systems was a constraint; (ii) design and construction
        supervision services; and (iii) implementation of O&M plans to be financed by WUAs;
        and

  (iii) Project Implementation Support. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that had been
        established for the implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) was
        strengthened with staff and equipment to implement OIP as well.

1.6 Revised Components

Project components were not formally revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

In order to overcome the persistent lack of counterpart funding while ensuring a satisfactory
implementation of the second project component, the financing rule of civil works was modified
in March 2005 with the share of IDA increasing from 75 to 85 percent.

The project followed a programmatic approach and therefore could easily adapt its scope to
changing needs and constraints arising during implementation. At appraisal, the first component
(capacity building of WUAs) was expected to benefit an estimated 160 WUAs while the second
component (rehabilitation) was expected to cover half of these, i.e. 80 of those 160 WUAs after
reaching a sufficient level of institutional development. In view of the high demand for
supporting the establishment of WUAs, the number of WUAs established during the project life
eventually reached about 455 WUAs which is much higher than the target. This required an
increase in the number of SUs from 19 originally planned to a total of 40, covering all main
irrigation raions of the country. Nevertheless, the budget actually spent for Component 1 at
project completion was lower than foreseen: US$4.56 million versus US$6.2 million planned.

The number of WUAs which benefited from rehabilitation had to be reduced from the original
80 to 63. The irrigated area benefiting from rehabilitation was about 122,000 ha, which
represents about 76 percent of the initial target of 160,000 ha. This was due to a combination of
factors: (i) unforeseen high price increases of civil works during implementation; (ii) the above-
mentioned change in disbursement percentage for civil works; (iii) the appreciation of the KGS
compared to the US Dollar, which was only partly compensated by the appreciation of the SDR
compared to the US Dollar; and (iv) increased costs due to the replacement of some contractors
who failed.

The funding for the third component was also substantially increased during implementation.
The project was originally implemented by the PIU of the IRP which was strengthened.
However, during implementation, the Bank and the government jointly agreed to establish a
separate PIU in view of the workload of both projects and the need to increase implementation
efficiency, although fiduciary tasks (procurement and financial management) continued to be
shared among the IRP and OIP. Also, contrary to what was originally planned and in order to


                                                   3

compensate for the lack of capacity of engineers in the rural areas, oblast rehabilitation teams
were established to assist local engineers in designing on-farm rehabilitation works in
collaboration with the concerned WUAs.

Finally the project completion date was extended from March 31, 2007 to May 31, 2008, in order
to enable the completion of a number of contracts for on-farm system rehabilitation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The quality at entry is considered satisfactory, with a good analysis of the sectoral issues and
with the project responding to priorities identified. The project had a simple design, addressing
immediate needs while aiming to ensure long-term sustainability. It also adopted a demand-
driven programmatic approach, rejecting to select project WUAs upfront. The project was
designed to complement the IRP (satisfactorily implemented from September 21, 1998 to
May 31, 2006), which addressed the rapid deterioration of a number of existing main and
secondary irrigation systems by rehabilitation of their most critical sections.

The project was logically articulated around two components addressing institutional
development and irrigation system rehabilitation and modernization. The project proposed an
innovative approach to support the institutional strengthening of WUAs responsible for O&M of
I&D systems within the former state and collective farms as a critical pre-requisite for
rehabilitation of the on-farm infrastructure (second component). This reflected a worldwide
lesson that in order to achieve long-term sustainability, institutional aspects are often more
important than physical rehabilitation.

The institutional development component emphasized the importance of developing an internal
capacity within the DWR in order to sustain the support to WUA development in the long run,
i.e. after project completion. This was done through the establishment of WUA Support Units at
different levels (central, oblast, raion) and the appropriate training of their staff. Given the
limited experience in WUA development, technical assistance was provided by international
experts during the first years of the project. The institutional development progress of each
WUA was measured through seven well-defined milestones2 and WUAs had to reach
milestone 4 before being eligible for infrastructure rehabilitation under the second component.

Based on demand from the qualified WUAs, the second component was designed to focus on
priority works, rather than comprehensive rehabilitation and modernization, so that the project's
impact could be maximized over as many WUAs as possible.

Two risks were underestimated during project preparation. The "full O&M for the command
areas managed by the WUAs that have received support from the OIP is not adequately financed


2    Milestone 1 (Formally established); Milestone 2 (Staff hired and training started); Milestone 3 (O&M plan
     prepared taking into account ISF increase to cover O&M); Milestone 4 (ISF paid); Milestone 5 (Rehabilitation
     alternatives developed); Milestone 6 (Rehabilitation alternative selected, 25 percent Repayment Agreement
     agreed); Milestone 7 (WUA ready for cooperation with the rehabilitation of the on-farm irrigation system).


                                                          4

by the water users" was considered moderate at project preparation, while this risk was
repeatedly highlighted as a substantial one during implementation and remains a concern at the
time of completion despite major achievements (see Section 4 below). Although positive trends
are observed, it became clear during project implementation that the achievement of sustainable
O&M is a process that takes longer than the duration of a typical project. The risk of "cost
overruns during project implementation" was rated negligible because OIP followed a program
approach with flexibility in the number of WUAs to be covered. This is correct, but rapid cost
increases and other reasons as explained later led to a reduction in project area covered from
160,000 ha initially planned to be rehabilitated to about 122,000 ha at project completion.
Finally, the risk that "DWR would not be able to absorb WUA Support Units and its structure" was
rightfully rated as substantial in the PAD and therefore given full attention during
implementation.

2.2 Implementation

Throughout implementation and especially as a result of the mid-term review, the project went
through important changes both on the institutional and physical rehabilitation fronts. These
changes aimed to adapt the project to changing needs (e.g. with design capacity and number of
WUAs to be supported) and to substantial difficulties resulting from the lack of experience with
the implementation of projects such as the OIP in the country.

On the institutional side, while the establishment of WUAs was faster than foreseen, the
institutional process aiming to strengthen them and bring them to a sufficient level of maturity
was more difficult and time-consuming than foreseen. The project spent considerable efforts to
strengthen this process, including training, technical assistance, and more intensive coaching
activities by the SUs which eventually resulted in the satisfactory achievement of the
institutional component. Moreover, in view of the widespread demand throughout the country
for the development of WUAs, government and IDA decided to increase the number of SUs at
raion level from 19 originally planned to a total of 27, complemented by 13 individuals in other
raions, thus covering all 40 raions where irrigation is a major activity. This resulted in the
establishment and training of 455 WUAs by the project against an initial target of 160 WUAs in
the PAD, which has been a major achievement. The project team made efforts and showed
creativity in trying to establish real participatory decision-making mechanisms for O&M of the
on-farm systems.

In terms of physical construction, the project faced a number of difficult conditions: (i) harsh
weather conditions and the obligation to ensure continuous water supply during the irrigation
season, which left only a short period available for construction; (ii) most of the local contractors
at the initial stage of project implementation lacked experience with work planning and
implementation of this type of extensive rehabilitation and faced some difficulty with applying
international standards and specifications in bidding documents; (iii) lack of experienced design
companies resulting in inadequate design work at the beginning of the component
implementation, which resulted in delays during the initial years as well as the cancellation of
some of the 63 civil works contracts; and (iv) high inflation during implementation. Between
December 2003 and June 2005, both the PDO and Implementation Performance (IP) ratings were
(moderately) unsatisfactory, mainly as a result of slow project implementation and very low
disbursements. However, considerable efforts have been made by both PIU and IDA supervision


                                                   5

teams during project implementation to adapt the project in order to ensure acceptable quality of
both design and civil works. These included: (i) the establishment of oblast rehabilitation teams
(not foreseen at appraisal) to compensate for the low capacity at raion level; (ii) various
amendments and improvement in the contracting arrangement (e.g. price adjustment clause); (iii)
a change in disbursement percentage for works; (iv) training of contractors; and (v) the
recruitment of full-time field-based supervision engineers.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

An M&E system was put in place that was well structured and maintained, and which contains a
wealth of information largely based on a comprehensive WUA database (in MS Access) by
aggregating information from a systematic reporting system of WUAs to the Central Support
Unit (CSU). It allows numerous analyses and monitoring of the development process of the
WUAs. Different Bank review missions and consultants reports developed in-depth analysis of a
series of indicators based on the system.

The M&E system was instrumental in monitoring the institutional development of WUAs
thereby constantly feeding project management and staff in the CSU and in selecting those
WUAs eligible to benefit from the second project component. A more systematic and accurate
collection of crop yields to better monitor the project impact on agricultural performance would
have been desirable, but this would have involved much additional cost and time spent at field
level, not just by project staff but also by other agencies that are involved in the agricultural
sector.

The M&E system will continue to operate under OIP-2. It could be further improved by adding
the following features: (i) monitor more systematically crop yields and cropping patterns
between various groups of WUAs tracked by the system in order to evaluate the impact on crop
performances of various project activities; (ii) undertake comparative analyses of the
rehabilitated WUAs with other WUAs in order to better assess the impact of rehabilitation on
ISF, recovery rate, O&M expenses, etc.; (iii) automatically generate key indicators of project
performances and impact such as the annual WUA expenses on maintenance, the recovery rate
of the ISF, the total cropped area; (iv) include in the M&E a more systematic means to monitor
the implementation of the O&M plans of the WUAs; and (v) qualitative monitoring mechanisms
could be added such as rapid water user surveys to collect their assessment of changes in their
farm performances, and their level of satisfaction with the delivery of irrigation water (reliability,
timeliness, adequacy of ISF, etc.).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement was generally compliant with rules and procedures. The works were executed
through a single civil works contract for each WUA selected for inclusion in the rehabilitation
program. A total of eight contracts were cancelled, especially for reasons of non-performance by
contractors. The affected contractors had typically quoted a low bid price and because of rapidly
rising construction costs were not able to complete the works. The early contracts did not have
price adjustment included, which was another reason why several of the contracts failed. When
rapidly increasing prices for materials and construction became an issue, IDA agreed to
incorporate price adjustment for each contract, independent of the contract duration.


                                                   6

The project faced some financial management issues, especially related to contractual
obligations, including lack of committing expected price adjustment. During the second part of
the project, the PIU set up a full complement of financial management staff serving both OIP and
the IDA-funded Water Management Improvement Project (WMIP), including an experienced
financial manager. Moreover, the accounting system was upgraded and all former data was
entered into the new system. The financial manager introduced a separate schedule for each
contract detailing all financial transactions relating to that contract, including advance payments,
invoice payments for works accomplished, advance recovery, and two-stage repayment of
retention funds. The staff, aided by the new financial management system, was also able to
properly reconcile all the payments made to contractors, including advance payments, price
adjustment, and retention payments.

On the environmental side, OIP was classified as category B. Each design report of a sub-project
included an environmental impact assessment. There was no negative environmental impact
observed from the project activities as the implemented works were only rehabilitative in nature
and did not change the general layout and operation of the existing irrigation systems. Since
October 2005, water management specialists of raion WUA Support Units (RSU) gathered
environmental data from 189 sampling points throughout the project area using monitoring
equipment supplied by the project. The sampling points are located at sites where some impact
from rehabilitation activities could be expected, and data on soils, surface water, ground water
levels, and mineralization were collected and submitted to the PIU on a regular basis. Water
monitoring parameters included acidity, mineral content (including salinity), temperature and
turbidity of water flows from water sources selected by the environmental specialist. The
frequency of measurements was between 3-9 times annually. Samples were sent for chemical
analysis to a national laboratory, contracted by the project. A short-term environmental
specialist was periodically engaged to analyze and report on the environmental monitoring
program, recommending appropriate mitigation measures as needed. Very few pollution
problems were found, except some unrelated to project activities, such as the presence of heavy
metals in some areas.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The progressive integration of the WUA SUs in the DWR was agreed upon during the design of
the project in order to ensure sustainability of the WUA support process. This involved a
gradual financing by government budget of the costs of operating them, complemented by a
formal integration of their staff as civil servants of the DWR. At project completion, the SUs
were 100 percent financed by the Government (from counterpart funds) and the integration of
staff is now complete after a Government Decree that waived Government's hiring freeze of civil
servants in the country for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry
(MOAWRPI) so that DWR could increase its staffing numbers in order to integrate the WUA
Support Units. At the beginning of 2009, with the start of the new budget cycle, the SUs will be
financed from DWR's budget.

IDA is financing a second phase of the project (Second On-farm Irrigation Project; OIP-2). This
five-year project was approved in June 2007 for a total cost of about US$20.5 million and aims
at sustaining and further expanding the activities of OIP. It will further strengthen the WUAs,
with a focus on financial and technical sustainability through support in water management,


                                                   7

O&M, and agricultural production. OIP-2 has the same components as the first project, i.e.
besides the WUA strengthening component, an infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization
component targeting those mature WUAs that could not benefit from the first project although
they have reached a sufficient level of institutional development.

Finally an IDA-funded Water Management Improvement Project, partly conceived as a follow
up of the IRP, is inter alia working on the transfer of off-farm works to federation of WUAs and
the financial sustainability of DWR.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

At the time of completion, the project objective and design remain highly relevant. For the past
10 years, agriculture has remained the main contributor to the country's economic development,
consistently representing 35-40 percent of the GDP and providing employment for around 50
percent of the population. Therefore, the Country Development Strategy (CDS) for 2006-2010
considers that agriculture will continue to be among the main sectors of the economy. Irrigated
crops are a major source of farm income and therefore a powerful tool for reducing poverty.

As recognized by the CDS, one of the most effective ways of increasing labor productivity in
agriculture is a reliable and effective irrigation of agricultural lands. The CDS sees a major role
for WUAs, and a need to increase ISF and to transfer on-farm systems to WUAs, all activities
that have been promoted by the project.

During implementation, while the above circumstances and priorities did not change, the project
was able to adapt to the fact that the development of WUAs became a national priority promoted
by the government so that the project had to extend its coverage to the entire territory while it
initially intended to only cover a fraction of on-farm schemes.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO was to "achieve increased crop production through reliable and sustainable water
distribution on about 160,000 ha of irrigated land across the country's seven oblasts". The
project had set as a target to increase crop yields by 10 percent (in comparison with the project
area before investments) and to support the development of 160 WUAs, including up to 80 of
them that would benefit from rehabilitation services (on 160,000 ha). In addition to yield
increase, the PAD had set two other impact indicators: (i) percentage of O&M needs of on-farm
irrigation systems covered; and (ii) distribution of adequate irrigation water in a timely manner,
in line with crop water requirements.

At the time of project completion, it still appears difficult to obtain solid data to demonstrate the
full impact of the project on crop performance for the following reasons: (i) most rehabilitation
took place during the last years of project implementation, i.e. between 2005 and 2007 ­ only 5
WUAs benefited from rehabilitation in or before 2005; (ii) it is too early to witness full benefits
from rehabilitation which are expected to take a few years to materialize; (iii) at the time of ICR
field work, the latest full set of data available in the WUA database was from 2006; and


                                                    8

(iv) there is no systematic comparative analysis in the WUA database between WUAs having
benefited from rehabilitation and those that did not.

Difficulties with the method of measurement of crop yields - relying much on average scheme
data rather than data broken down by zones that are performing differently - have meant that it
has not been easy to quantify the anticipated yield and crop production improvement in the
rehabilitated WUAs. A set of data collected from 33 WUAs in April 2007 ("Case Study on On-
farm Rehabilitation Impact under OIP" by the local NGO M-Vector ­ see Section 3.6 below for
more details) allowed an impression of yield data and an analysis of the changes in average crop
yields between 2005 and 2006 in WUAs interviewed during the survey. These WUAs were
grouped in three categories: (i) 13 WUAs having benefited from support from SUs and from
rehabilitation (Group 1); (ii) 10 WUAs only having received support from the SUs (Group 2);
and (iii) 10 recently established WUAs had not yet benefited from the project (Group 3). In
addition, an assessment of the 2005/06 seasons in 13 WUAs where rehabilitation works had been
completed (not the same as the Group 1 WUAs) showed that yield levels have fluctuated, with
yields of many crops increasing often more that 10 percent, but other crops had reduced yields.

It was found that water users are still conservative in selecting crops, and cropping patterns have
not changed much until now. Data collected found that the yields of the main crops in irrigation
systems that have benefited from rehabilitation (Group 1) were higher than the yields in the
WUAs that have received little or no project support (Group 3). The average yield for winter
wheat was 2.8 ton/ha for Group 1 and 1.6 ton/ha for Group 3. Similarly, for maize the yields
were 3.0 ton/ha and 1.7 ton/ha, for kidney beans 1.7 ton/ha and 1.2 ton/ha, for cotton 2.5 ton/ha
and 1.7 ton/ha, and for permanent grasses 3.1 ton/ha and 2.8 ton/ha. The comparison of crop
yields in 2005 and 2006 showed that on average crop yields have remained the same in
rehabilitated WUAs (-0.4 percent difference), they decreased by 12.2 percent in the control
group, and decreased by 4.9 percent in the WUAs which only benefited from the SUs. In other
terms, rehabilitation appears to have maintained yields while these have decreased in other
WUAs: the net yield impact from the project would be 11.8 percent (which is in line with the
assumptions made at appraisal; two years of agricultural data is of course not conclusive for
trends, but at least a comparison can be made for WUAs that received different level of
assistance) from the combination of the two project components and 7.3 percent from the first
component.

More agricultural benefits are expected to materialize in the future beyond these preliminary
trends. In addition, in several WUAs some land could be reclaimed as a result of the project, but
this could not be captured by the M&E system as the changing WUA area in the database does
not distinguish between what resulted from improved irrigation and what simply resulted from
an increased number of WUA members. Yet, it can be assumed that in a number of WUAs the
actual irrigated area increased by a small percentage, which is an important net benefit from the
project. While the PDO in the PAD only considered the agricultural impact on the rehabilitated
WUAs, the project is also likely having an impact on agricultural performances of WUAs which
have only benefited from support and training.

The project has exceeded its institutional development target. By project completion, 455 WUAs
(managing about 70 percent of the country's irrigated land) had been established with the support



                                                  9

of the project, versus 160 envisaged by the PAD. However, these 455 WUAs have reached
different levels of development. The M&E database shows that 305 of them can be considered
as having reached a level which ensures their development towards sustainability. They have
reached milestone 4 (out of 7), i.e. they are operational with trained staff, they have prepared
O&M plans taking into account needed ISF increases to cover O&M cost, and they are already
collecting increasing amounts of ISF. This figure (305) represents 190 percent of the target in
the PAD.

Field investigations show that these 305 WUAs: (i) have an adequate institutional framework for
management (management board, functional meeting schedules, minutes recorded for meetings,
etc.); (ii) allow adequate representation for water users through Representative Assemblies and
Representative Zones; (iii) have at least basic office facilities (often in Ayil Okmotu offices);
(iv) are adequately staffed with both administrative and technical personnel; (v) have accounting
and financial control procedures; and (vi) have developed operation procedures, including those
for water management.

Other achievements of the project include: (i) effectively filling the gap left in on-farm irrigation
management after the dissolution of the collective and state farms. In the absence of the project,
the deterioration of on-farm schemes would have certainly worsened considerably with serious
negative impacts on crop performances; and (ii) establishing a sustainable process to support the
development and future strengthening of WUAs which is now embodied in the DWR (see
Section 3.5 (b) on institutional strengthening).

Extensive field visits during Bank review missions and the ICR mission showed that the
reliability and timeliness of water delivery has greatly improved, leading to more efficient water
use by crops. This is confirmed by the earlier mentioned case study which found significant
improvements for rehabilitated WUAs in water users' assessment of the reliability, adequacy,
timeliness, and equity of water delivery (see Section 3.6 below). The project has also led to a
better organization in water distribution and a sharp decrease in conflicts over water and in time
spent by farmers on irrigation. Even in WUAs where the actual rehabilitation did not cover the
entire scheme, the improvement in water efficiency in the area concerned by the rehabilitation
indirectly impacts on areas that did not benefit from rehabilitation, since more water will be
available in those areas as well.

Finally, a sufficient percentage of operation and maintenance (O&M) needs of on-farm
irrigation system covered has not yet been achieved, which is a concern in relation to
sustainability (see Section 4 below). While the M&E system accurately captures the actual
expenses on O&M per WUA, O&M plans are not yet fully based on actual assessment of the
scheme requirements. The PAD mentions the figure of US$10 per ha as a typical on-farm ISF,
about 70 percent of which would have to be spent on actual O&M. The ISF that was collected
by the 63 WUAs between 2003 and 2007 was KGS 105 million (about US$3 million) or about
US$5 per ha on average. In 2007, the average amount of the ISF spent on O&M was KGS 109
(US$3) per ha. This figure does not take into account the considerable amount of maintenance
carried out by the farmers through self-help. Considering the positive trends, it is expected that
during the next years many WUAs, with the assistance of OIP-2, can reach the needed level of
ISF to provide adequate O&M of their managed systems.



                                                 10

3.3 Efficiency

The PAD included a cost-benefit analysis based on quantifying projected agricultural benefits by
assuming: (i) average yield increases by 10 percent at full development in rehabilitated WUAs;
(ii) average yield decreases by 1 percent per year in the without-project scenario. In April 2007
and February 2008, respectively, the PIU undertook two field surveys to complement the data
available in the M&E unit in order to quantify the impact of the project on WUAs and crop
performances. One of the purposes was to be able to perform a cost-benefit economic analysis.
However, neither during these two attempts nor during the ICR mission was it possible to
formally re-run the economic analysis included in the PAD, with the main reasons listed above.

A recalculation of the economic rate of return (ERR) could be performed by assuming that:
(i) the above-mentioned results from the survey with 33 WUAs are extrapolated to the entire
project, i.e. an average increase by 11.8 percent in rehabilitated WUAs compared to non-
beneficiary WUAs; and (ii) compared to the PAD, benefits can be discounted by 24 percent as
the WUAs that eventually benefited from rehabilitation was only 76 percent of what was planned
at appraisal (121,000 ha instead of 160,000 ha). Based on these assumptions, the Economic Rate
of Return of the project would be reduced to about 20 percent. However, this is very
conservative considering that: (i) the above yield increases were measured for one year only
while full benefit would materialize after a few years; and (ii) other substantial benefits were not
incorporated in the calculation as explained below.

Cost Effectiveness. The project is considered cost effective. Despite sharp increases in
construction materials during the project implementation period, the average cost per hectare of
on-farm I&D rehabilitation was contained at US$166/ha, which was only 20 percent higher than
what was planned at appraisal. The WUA development component was even more cost-effective
as 455 WUAs were strengthened by the project against 160 foreseen at appraisal for a similar
cost. This means that the actual cost of strengthening one WUA was slightly over US$10,000,
which is only 26 percent of the about US$39,000 projected at appraisal.

Finally, other benefits have not been quantified in the economic analysis which might be
substantial. They include: (i) some changes in cropping patterns, in particular an increase in
areas in vegetables, potato, and peas at the expense of cotton and cereals; (ii) the potential
downstream economic use of water saved as a result of better scheme efficiency; (iii) the benefits
from institutional strengthening as the economic analysis focused on the benefits from physical
rehabilitation on 160,000 ha; and (iv) social benefits such as a reduction in conflicts and in time
spent by users on irrigation.

As a conclusion, although it is too early to fully document project impact on agricultural
performances, the above partial analyses show that the project is likely to reach its development
objectives and therefore an economic performance close to the one projected at appraisal.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

In light of the above and of the definition of rating criteria ("the extent to which the project's
objective were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, efficiently"), the overall outcome rating


                                                  11

is satisfactory. Even if agricultural improvements have yet to fully materialize and be adequately
documented, the PDO is likely to be achieved as demonstrated by the above data analysis and
cost-benefit analysis. The efficiency of the project is illustrated by the cost effectiveness which
shows a low cost per WUA strengthened and a low rehabilitation cost per hectare.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

An improved performance of the agricultural sector, being the main source of income in the rural
areas, will have an impact on poverty alleviation. On the social side, through the establishment
of WUAs the occurrence of conflicts related to the use and distribution of water was reduced
leading to more favorable social conditions. As a result of the nature of the project, almost all
land owners within the command area of the established WUAs benefited from the better water
management and delivery regardless of their ethnic origin and socio-economic conditions.

Further conclusions regarding poverty, gender and social development are difficult to draw since
during the project lifespan there was no assessment of the socio-economic conditions of water
users within the WUAs, and how different socio-economic groups benefitted from the project's
institution strengthening and rehabilitation activities. During OIP-2, it would be useful to carry
out farm-level surveys in order to better monitor and understand possible changes and impact of
migration trends on farming systems and irrigation. Such surveys should include the changes in
local governance of water resulting from the mechanisms set up by the project to ensure that
water users have a major role in decision-making in the O&M of the on-farm system.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

An institutional framework for management of the on-farm systems has been established,
including mechanisms to ensure that water users are involved in decision-making. This
comprises clearly defined procedures, election of WUA Councils, and promotes the adequate
representation of water users through assemblies. The creation of Zonal Representatives allows
an adequate and operational representation of the water users. Moreover, the usefulness and
efficiency of WUAs for management, operation and maintenance of on-farm systems is
recognized by authorities at different levels. This is indeed a tremendous change towards a
system of local management of water by the users. However, it is important that WUA
representatives continue to represent all water users in the future. It will be important to keep
water users informed about WUA activities and decisions made by the WUA Council.

The project is leaving behind a much strengthened DWR with improved capacity in assisting the
development of WUAs thanks to a comprehensive network of SUs which are integrated in and
financed by the Department. At project completion raion SUs are operational in all main
irrigation raions of the country and are supported by seven oblast support units (OSU) and one
CSU. At the end of the project, a total of 121 Support Unit staff was in place, six in the CSU, 21
in the OSUs, and 94 in the RSUs. More qualitatively, these WUA SU staff acquired abilities in a
wide variety of fields, including general administration and financial management, water
management, engineering, WUA formation and development, legal aspects of WUA activities,
how to hold meetings, community development, conflict resolution, monitoring and evaluation,


                                                 12

and computer operations. This achievement represents a positive change in the approach to
irrigation management, initiating a shift from an irrigation mono-oriented approach to a
multidisciplinary and comprehensive vision.

Finally, a new WUA law was prepared with the assistance of the project. Passing this law in
2002 was a major early accomplishment of the project as the law ensured a clear separation
between WUA governance by an elected Council and day-to-day management by hired staff for
implementation of decisions made by the governing WUA Council and approved by the
membership.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There were no unintended negative impacts of the project. On the positive side, the project has
contributed to a sense of ownership of and responsibility for the on-farm network. In addition,
the diminishing number of conflicts over water is expected to have a positive impact on social
relations in the rural areas.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There was no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop undertaken. However, a qualitative
study was commissioned by the PIU to a local surveying company (M-Vector) to assess the
perception of project impact by beneficiaries. It interviewed a total of 496 farmers belonging to
33 WUAs, including 13 WUAs where rehabilitation works had been carried out by the project
(Group 1), 10 WUAs which had received support from WUA Support Units (Group 2), and a
further 10 WUAs where no or very little support had been provided until the time of the survey
(Group 3; typically newly established WUAs). Useful information was collected, summarized as
follows:

    · There was a clear difference in the perception of availability of water among the three
        groups. For Group 1, 38 percent of WUA staff said water supply was always enough or
        more than enough, while for Groups 2 and 3 the figures were 30 percent and 0 percent
        respectively;
    · For Group 1 there was a noticeable change in the assessment of indicators on water
        delivery by WUA staff, as shown in Table 1 below:

                   Table 1: Assessment of Indicators on Water Delivery by WUA Staff
                                 (Comparison between 2004 and 2007)

                 Indicator                        Good                           Good
                                       (Before rehabilitation; 2004)   (After rehabilitation; 2007)
                                                 N = 13                          N = 13
    Reliability of irrigation                      0%                             54%
    Volume of water delivered                      0%                             62%
    Timeliness of water delivery                   0%                             62%
    Equity of water delivery                      23%                             46%




                                                   13

    · The perception among Group 1 farmers for the indicators of reliability, delivered volume,
        timeliness and equity before and after rehabilitation shows positive results, as indicated in
        Table 2 below:

                                Table 2: Perception among Group 1 Farmers

       Indicator    Rehabilitation    Very good      Good      Medium        Bad       Very bad
                       status*           %             %          %           %            %
    Reliability     Before               0            19         48           30           3
    n = 121         After                11           66         19           3            1
    Delivered       Before               1            15         53           29           2
    volume          After                10           64         22           4            0
    n = 119
    Timeliness      Before               2            20         54           21           3
    n = 109         After                12           62         20           6            0
    Equity          Before               3            34         48           14           1
    n = 88          After                12           70         16           2            0
                                      Very low       Low       Medium        High      Very high
    Disputes        Before               13            7         48           28           4
    n = 59          After                17           30         30           21           2
        * Before ­ 2004; After ­ 2007.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

At the time of project completion, the risk that development outcomes will not be maintained is
still substantial. The risk relates to the ability of the WUAs to adequately maintain the on-farm
system linked with their financial sustainability. While the WUAs that have reached milestone 4
have acquired the skills and organizational features to adequately distribute water and manage
their systems, their capacity to maintain the scheme in the long run critically depends on their
ability to collect enough financial resources for maintenance work. This is to be achieved
through the collection of ISF, hence the importance given by both the PIU and the Bank to
carefully monitor ISF levels and their collection rates. It is expected that OIP-2 will mitigate
some of these risks.

It is noted that a second project was not planned at the time of preparation of OIP. It was already
envisaged at project preparation that WUA development and financial sustainability would be a
long-term process that would go beyond the project duration, which is why there was so much
emphasis on Support Unit development and transfer of these Units to DWR during the project, so
that assistance to WUAs could continue after OIP. Even without OIP-2 the support to WUAs
would have continued and the risks mentioned above would likely be mitigated and result in a
lower risk to development outcome.

Continuous monitoring shows the important improvements throughout the project life as shown
by the following indicators:

    · the ISF actually collected by WUAs to finance their operations and maintenance work
        has increased by 71 percent between 2001 and 2007, from an average of 2.74 tyin/m3 to
        an average of 4.68 tyin/m3;



                                                   14

                                  Actual Collection of ISFin WUAs supported by the project


                      5
                                                                                  4.18        4.68
                                                           3.8       3.92
                      4
                                              3.24

                      3  2.74     2.82
                m3
                  m/oS2


                      1


                      0
                         2001     2002       2003         2004      2005        2006       2007

                                                          Year

    · the collection rate of ISF (i.e. the percentage of ISF collected from water users either in
        cash or kind at the end of the year compared to the expected collection fixed at the
        beginning of the year) increased from 81 percent in 2002 to 107 percent in 2007 (WUAs
        were reducing their debt to DWR);
    · the payment of ISF3 from WUAs to the DWR has substantially increased from a total of
        KGS 19.8 million in 2001 to KGS 43.6 million in 2007;
    · in addition, this payment which was mostly in-kind at the beginning of the project is now
        mostly in cash at completion: the cash proportion has increased from 19 percent to 58
        percent; and
    · as a result, the level of WUA debt with DWR has reduced over time from KGS 64
        million in 2002 to KGS 8.96 million in December 2007 with "surplus" payments during
        2005-2007 paying off outstanding debts.

However, in absolute terms, the ISF remains low at project completion as shown by the
following Table 3 which aggregates national figures between 2005 and 2007. In 2007, the
average ISF was equivalent to US$4.50/ha, a slight increase compared to 2005 (average for all
WUAs that received support from SUs). About half of it was destined to the payment of water
tariff to DWR, with only the equivalent of US$2.34/ha remaining in the WUAs for O&M
activities.




3The ISF is the total fee paid by water users to the WUAs. It includes two shares: the water tariff paid by the WUA
to the DWR to pay for bulk water received at the boundary of the WUA; and the remaining being used by the
WUAs to cover its own O&M expenditures.


                                                             15

                                Table 3: Actual Collected ISF per Hectare (2005-2007)

                                                                                                         Remaining in
                                                             Total ISF      Tariff to DWR                     WUA
                                      KGS/ha                   170                   67                         103
                        2005          US$/ha                  4.15                  1.63                        2.51
                                      %                                            39%                         61%
                                      KGS/ha                   164                   61                         103
                        2006          US$/ha                  4.00                  1.49                        2.51
                                      %                                            37%                         63%
                                      KGS/ha                   186                   90                          96
                        2007          US$/ha                  4.54                  2.20                        2.34
                                      %                                            48%                         52%
                (Exchange rate assumed at US$1 = KGS 41 during the period considered)

The actual maintenance work is not systematically monitored by the M&E system. The budgets
prepared by the WUAs primarily aim to cover the expenditures for salaries of the WUA staff and
the payment of tariff to the DWR. The following graphs summarize the budgets of two
representative WUAs. The salaries (including the contribution to the social fund) accounts for
about half of the total. The second most important expense is the payment of tariff to the DWR
for the first one while the second has its own supply of water independent from the DWR.
Expenses on actual maintenance and repairs of the scheme represent 17 percent and 29 percent
for these two WUAs respectively. At the national level, it is estimated to represent an average of
24 percent of the WUA budgets. This means that in 2007, an estimated US$1.09 (24 percent of
US$4.54) was spent by the WUAs on actual maintenance and repairs (excluding considerable
self-help tasks, estimated at 57 percent of the cash payments, almost all of which is for
maintenance works within the WUAs). Most WUAs are aware of this low budget and seem to be
committed to increase the fee level now that the systems have been rehabilitated and the ability
to provide timely water has improved, and this will be supported under OIP-2.


            Budget Breakdown of one representative WUA -                Budget Breakdown of one representative WUA - Koshgor
               Koshgor Raion - Issyk Kul Oblast (2007                                      Raion - Naryn Oblast (2007)
                                                Other
                                             Expenses

            Transport                        (office...)                         Repair of

              6%                                 6%                              Irrigation
                                                                                 Scheme
                                                                                   29%


Maintenanc                                           Salaries                                                                  Salaries

 e / repairs                                                                                                               (including social
                                                       41%                                                                       fund)
    17%                                                                                                                          46%




                                                                        Field Expenses
                                                                            (horse)
                                                                              12%

                                                                                     Transportation                       Travel Expenses
        payment to                                                                    be vehicle in       Office Expenses       2%

            RVH                      Social Fund                                          WUA                    3%

            19%                                                                            8%
                                         11%



While the M&E system captures the actual expenses of on scheme O&M per WUA, the
calculations undertaken by the WUAs in preparing their 5-year O&M plans still need to be



                                                                    16

improved as they are not fully based on actual assessment of the scheme requirements (asset
management), while the considerable in-kind member contributions are not adequately captured
in the budgets. During OIP-2 these aspects will receive more attention and the actual financial
needs for sustainable maintenance and repairs of the schemes on the basis of actual physical
status and requirements will be determined in order to develop realistic ISF development plans.
In addition, the possibility and potential cost savings derived from different institutional options
such as possible merging of WUAs will be worked on as this could lead to economies of scale by
reducing the fixed expenditures such as salaries, operating expenses of maintaining the office,
etc.

Possible further scheme deterioration of the WUAs that have not benefited from rehabilitation
under OIP or OIP-2, i.e. about 75 percent of the legally established WUAs, is another concern.
The WUAs that have been strengthened institutionally by the project could face difficulties in
sustaining their activities if the on-farm schemes are not rehabilitated. So far, they manage to
cope with most urgent repairs but more substantial work is required which is not yet affordable
to the WUAs without support from government.

The PAD identified the lack of sufficient maintenance work in the off-farm scheme as a concern.
This issue is dealt with by the IDA-financed WMIP, which will provide assistance to determine
the actually needed budget for proper O&M of off-farm infrastructure and gradually require
water users to pay more, as allowed by the Water Code (until now, ISF levels are set by
Parliament). The budget for DWR has gradually increased since 2000 and during the last two
years was about 2.5 times higher than in 2000 (see Table 4). It is also good to note that an
increasing part of the budget is used for maintenance. Although the budget still has to increase
further, these are positive budgetary developments. DWR also received an allocation of
KGS330 million for their recently established Planning, Design and Construction Unit. These
funds are proposed to be used for major rehabilitation and completion of irrigation schemes.

                       Table 4: O&M Budget for DWR (2000-2008) (million KGS)

                                                                                                2008

                                2000   2001   2002    2003    2004     2005    2006     2007    (plan)
                                                                                                for 5
                                                                                               months
Operational Costs
                       planned  172.33 188.86 259.11  263.20  317.61   286.08 336.73    437.28  410.14
                         actual 173.30 205.50 258.07  256.39  288.20   299.63 325.16    443.99  145.25
                  % completion  101%    109%   100%     97%     91%    105%     97%     102%      35%
Portion for Maintenance
                       planned   20.60  22.98  43.92   38.55   48.50    56.47 103.15    177.38  118.88
                         actual  20.43  22.98  48.92   29.48   38.26    55.29   86.60   168.38    85.5
                  % completion   99%    100%   111%     76%     79%     98%     84%      95%      72%




                                                  17

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

This project was very timely for several reasons, particularly: (i) this was the first attempt after
the collapse of collective or state-managed farming systems to create owners of the on-farm level
irrigation and drainage systems; (ii) after the rehabilitation of the major deteriorated parts and
ensure the secure water flow in the main system under the IRP, the next and very important step
was to rehabilitate and improve the on-farm irrigation and drainage systems; and (iii) there was
an urgent need to provide technical assistance and support to WUAs.

As earlier mentioned, both the project objective and activities were highly relevant and
responded to the most critical needs that were well identified by the project design team. The
PAD was well written, to the point, and informative. Project design was simple and practical.
The approach to place institutional development in the first place and as a pre-requisite to
physical rehabilitation works proved to be the correct approach and is a necessary condition for
sustainability. Indeed, the institutional and policy aspects were at the core of the analysis and
activities designed at appraisal. Much attention was given to establish and sustain after project
completion an institutional capacity that can support the future development needs of WUAs.

There were no major environmental or fiduciary issues at appraisal. The project implementation
modalities were relatively clear and simple, and aimed to incorporate the fact that local
capacities and experience with projects like OIP were very weak at project inception.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

DWR and its PIU greatly appreciated the IDA implementation review missions which were
regular, consistent (continuity of team members), and very supportive in sorting out problems
arising during implementation. IDA missions not only played a review role but also an advisory
one through expertise in both institutional development of WUAs and irrigation rehabilitation.
Guidance and recommendations were always appreciated by DWR and the PIU as a constructive
contribution to move forward. Review teams always based their advice on field visits and
thorough discussions with primary project stakeholders (DWR, Ministry of Finance (MOF), PIU,
Oblast Rehabilitation Teams, SUs, WUAs, and water users).

The quality and commitment of the implementation review team was particularly critical towards
the end of 2004 when, for about one year, the project was rated unsatisfactory due to the
deficient implementation of the second component. The team was pro-active in agreeing with
the Government on a number of actions which eventually put the project on the right track again.
These included: the change in financing arrangement; the establishment of oblast rehabilitation
teams to improve and speed up design work; and the introduction of price adjustments in
contracts with civil work contractors.


                                                  18

IDA's aide-memoires were well written, informative, and practical. They contained both
accurate assessment of implementation progress, transparent and critical analysis of problems
encountered, and pragmatic responses, recommendations, and solutions to further improve
implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Both quality at entry and implementation review are considered fully satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was located in the Department of Water Resources under MOAWRPI. The project
received good support from the DWR. Throughout the project life, DWR remained fully
supportive to the idea of transferring management and ownership of the on-farm systems. The
project also led to a change in the attitude of DWR which progressively became more client-
oriented towards water users and WUAs.

The central Government has been supportive of promoting the development of WUAs in terms
of pro-active policy and legal framework. The project also received good support from the
Ministry of Finance. In particular, in line with the Development Credit Agreement, financing of
the SUs was progressively transferred from project funds to the regular budget so that at project
completion the SUs were entirely financed by the budget. There were, however, financial
restrictions during the first three years of project implementation as sufficient counterpart funds
were lacking. As a result of updated financing arrangements agreed upon during the mid-term
review (change in disbursement percentages), the project did not face any more financing
difficulties.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

DWR and its PIU have satisfactorily implemented the project. Throughout the project, the PIU
was staffed with up to 11 professionals to deal with the day-to-day management of the project,
including coordination of activities with the Government and the Bank. The PIU was always
responsive to recommendations of the Bank on ways to improve implementation and resolve
problems. The PIU maintained good relationships with other stakeholders such as various
government institutions, the Asian Development Bank (ADB; involved in Chui Oblast), US
Agency for International Development (USAID; involved with WUA development in the
Ferghana Valley), and local administrations.

Monitoring and evaluation activities were maintained at a satisfactory level with readily
available data for analysis. Quarterly and annual reports were regularly produced and of
satisfactory quality.



                                                  19

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory, as both implementing agency and Government performed well and were
always fully supportive of the project activities.

6. Lessons Learned

The establishment of WUA Support Units played a key role in the registration and development
of WUAs. The efforts made by the project in capacity building of SUs (and indirectly of the
DWR), in development of legal aspects (WUA Law, Water Code), and in elaboration of
mechanisms for decision making within the WUAs (governance system including a Council,
General Assembly, and Zonal Representatives) were essential to ensure the development of
legally empowered institutions. Institution-building and strengthening followed appropriate and
efficient timing and sequences: technical assistance, creation of WUAs support units, awareness
creation, establishment of WUAs, and training and support to WUAs.

Most projects involved in I&D improvement focus on rehabilitation works and then, in order to
ensure the maintenance of the infrastructure, provide some assistance to water users in water and
scheme management. This usually causes sustainability concerns for a number of reasons: lack
of participation of water users in rehabilitation works; lack of capacity of these water users in
managing the schemes; and eventual deterioration of the newly rehabilitated structures. In
contrast, the OIP first built and strengthened WUAs as solid institutions, sometimes for several
years, as a pre-requisite before starting a rehabilitation process with those WUAs that had
demonstrated their institutional capacity. This innovative approach was carefully designed and
implemented and appears to be important for long-term sustainability of the scheme management.

Another lesson is that institution strengthening is a long process and should be given enough
resources, regular coaching, expertise, and, above all, time. It also requires institutional support
to the WUA process to be embodied in government institutions (here the DWR) in order to
secure its sustainability.

WUA command areas should be seen as a single unit from the water management improvement
point-of-view. Much attention should be paid to requirements of regulatory structures such as
intakes, division boxes, culverts, outlets, cross regulators, energy dissipaters, and flow meters,
which will allow WUAs to distribute water among member farmers in a more reliable and timely
manner. On-farm canal lining, which is expensive, should be used only for those sections of the
system where it would be technically required to reduce high seepage losses.

Good construction supervision work is essential for satisfactory outcome. In particular, strict
supervision for quality of works is required and disqualification of non-performing contractors
should be applied.

The intention of using the distribution efficiency as a measure of project performance was to
measure the improvement of on-farm water distribution. However, this is an indicator that is
difficult to measure, and does not capture all the possible improvements that might be brought
about by the project. A more comprehensive measure is to look for a reduction in the quantity of
water abstracted, on the basis that improvements in distribution efficiency, scheduling, level of



                                                  20

control over water, on-farm application, and water management in general will result in a
reduction of water used. The project evaluation identified reduced water consumption as a key
economic benefit of the project. Further work is required, however, to measure water abstraction
against water demand based on crop type, area and irrigation norms. This has already been
incorporated in and will be done under OIP-2.

In order to take full advantage of irrigation rehabilitation and improved water management, there
is need to provide additional support to the farmers. Required services are related to: (i) field-
level water management techniques applied by individual farmers on their parcels in order to
optimize the use by crops of irrigation water; (ii) agricultural techniques such as crop varieties,
seeds and plant protection with special attention to be given to management of soil fertility and
crop rotation; and (iii) access to markets of high value crops such as vegetables, potato, and
beans. As this kind of support can be concluded only after the rehabilitation of the irrigation
system, a PDO formulated specifically around increased crop production on a certain project area
is of too high an order for an irrigation project. It usually takes time for farmers to adapt to
changing circumstances and when the engineering works are usually completed towards the end
of a project this time is not available within the project duration. Implementing agencies should
be encouraged to measure the agricultural impact in rehabilitated systems a few years after the
end of the project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The recipient prepared a final report which builds on the annual reports and aggregates project
outputs. It represents a good source of information, and is particularly useful to recall the history
of project progress over time. The report provides descriptive data by year and/or by oblast on:
disbursements, formation of WUAs, sizes of WUAs, ISF amount and recovery, rehabilitation
works, and contract costs. The report also provides information on how rehabilitation processes
were improved during the project life. While the report documents very well the development of
WUAs resulting from the project, it also frankly acknowledges that more work is needed, and
proposes various solutions, including further institutional development in the form of WUA
federations and water councils, and further training of WUAs and their members.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, reviewed the draft ICR and provided a set of
comments. It agreed with the satisfactory ratings of the project and was satisfied with the
number of WUAs that was established and trained. It proposed that DWR continues the
evaluation of the outcomes, a point with which the Bank agrees, so that the project's impact on
agricultural yields and production becomes clear. The Ministry of Finance would have liked to
see transfer of some higher-order irrigation infrastructure from DWR to WUAs in order to
decrease the burden to the republican budget. OIP paid little attention to the development of
federations of WUAs, as it was felt that WUAs managing lower-level infrastructure has to be
strong before it can be given responsibility for the management of higher-order infrastructure
that is currently under the management of DWR. OIP-2 and WMIP have sub-components on the
development and training of federations of WUAs.




                                                  21

(b) Cofinanciers

The ADB was not a co-financier, but close coordination was required in Chui Oblast where the
ADB-financed the Chui Area Agricultural Development Project. OIP was only implementing its
first component in Chui Oblast as rehabilitation works were covered by ADB. SUs in Chui
Oblast were thus financed and equipped by OIP and government, but were working with WUAs
that received support for rehabilitation from the ADB project. This allowed for consistent
approaches and methodologies towards WUA development to be applied throughout the country.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable




                                                22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
            Components              Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                            millions)           Appraisal

WUA STRENGTHENING
SERVICES                                    5.23                4.60               88

INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION AND O&M                     18.26               24.10              132

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT                                     0.53                1.40              264

 12




               Total Baseline Cost         24.02               30.10              125

Physical Contingencies                      2.38                0.00

Price Contingencies                         2.60                0.00
               Total Project Costs         29.00               30.10              104
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                0.00
        Total Financing Required            0.00                0.00




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds              Type of                                 Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing     Estimate      Estimate
                                                     (USD millions)(USD millions) Appraisal

Borrower                                                  6.30         5.20         83
International Development Association
(IDA)                                                    20.00        21.90        110

LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                                      2.70         3.00        111




                                               23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(a) Component 1: Water Users' Associations Development Services

A summary of the main results of the main indicators is as follows:

    · Indicator 1 - Number of O&M plans developed in detail, fully costed and implemented
       each year after completion of rehabilitation works ­ moderately satisfactory, but trend is
       towards fully satisfactory outcome as WUAs mature.

       Data collected by the project shows that 375 WUAs out of a total of 455 established
       prepared O&M plans taking into account ISF increase to cover O&M of the on-farm
       infrastructure (milestone 3). As explained in the main text, there is still a concern that the
       level of ISF set in many of these plans is not yet adequate to ensure long-term
       sustainability of the on-farm systems. The amount allocated to maintenance represents
       generally less than 30 percent of the total WUA budget, which is typically insufficient in
       the long run to provide the needed maintenance (in well-developed WUAs this
       percentage normally exceeds 60-70 percent). More work will be done under OIP-2 to
       achieve increases in maintenance budgets.

    · Indicator 2 - Representation and participation of users in WUAs ­ satisfactory

       Seventy-eight percent of the WUAs established have a Representative Assembly and
       have organized Representative Zones in order to facilitate the involvement of members in
       the decision-making process. In each WUA, at least one meeting of the Representative
       Assembly is held annually, as stipulated by law, with participation of at least two-third of
       the members. Many WUAs conduct more than one assembly meeting per year. The
       majority of the water users (84.7 percent) get information about the WUA activities
       through zonal representatives, neighbors, water masters, etc.

    · Indicator 3 - Timely repairs to on-farm irrigation infrastructure ­ too early to be assessed,
       by trend is towards satisfactory outcome.

       Most WUAs had their rehabilitation completed within the last year of the project, and the
       need for repairs is still limited. Few WUAs have started to provide repairs in a
       systematic way. This will also be one of the main activities under OIP-2.

WUAs Support Units. As the organization responsible for irrigation development and water
delivery, DWR was considered as the best candidate to develop internal capacity to support the
development of WUAs to become organizations that are capable of operating and maintaining
on-farm irrigation systems in a sustainable way. In order to assist the DWR, the PAD envisaged
the creation within the DWR central office of a support unit responsible for all coordination
aspects related to WUA development. After the creation of a support unit at central level, oblast
and raion level support units were created in turn. The support units have the responsibility for
WUA promotion, assistance with WUA establishment, training, technical advice, backstopping,
and monitoring and evaluation.


                                                  24

The WUA Support Units' creation was rapid and their coverage exceeded project expectations.
Given the limited internal expertise and experience in WUA development and operation, the
PAD envisaged an approach phased over three years for the creation of WUA SUs. The concern
was the need for SUs to be established in a manageable set of raions where there was a
reasonable number of former state or collective farms that could be developed into WUAs, and
the need to establish WUAs in areas where agriculture was productive enough that they could
become financially sustainable.

WUA support units were created at a more intensive pace than expected. Around mid-2001,
about six months after OIP started, the CSU and the OSUs in all seven oblasts had been
established. RSUs were formed in four batches: eleven in March 2002, fourteen in December
2002, one in March 2003, and fourteen in November 2004. The number of SUs established and
trained at raion level largely exceeded the 19 raions foreseen in the PAD. During the project, the
government requested further RSUs to be formed which led to the establishment of SUs in
almost all irrigation raions in the country. Two-third (27) benefited from a fully staffed SU
composed of three trained persons, and one-third (13) from one coordinator (Table 5). These
latter benefited from the support of their neighboring fully staffed Support Units.

                 Table 5: WUAs Support Units established and personnel against plan

       Description                       Planned in PAD                       Actual by April 2008
Central Support Unit
                Number:     1                                       1
      Staff Number/Unit:    4 persons:                              6 persons:
                            - WUA Development Specialist            - WUA Development Specialist
                            - Training Specialist                   - Training Specialist
                            - Engineer                              - Engineer
                            - Financial Specialist                  - Financial Specialist
                                                                    - Information management Specialist
                                                                    - Training Center Specialist
Oblast Support Units
                Number:     7                                       7
      Staff Number/Unit:    3 persons:                              3 persons:
                            - Coordinator/WUA Support Sp.           - Coordinator/WUA Support Specialist
                            - Engineer                              - Engineer
                            - Water Management Specialist           - Water Management Specialist
 Raion Support Units::
                Number:     19                                      40
      Staff Number/Unit:    3 persons:                              3 persons in 27 RSU:
                            - WUA Support Technician                - Coordinator/WUA Support Specialist
                            - Engineer                              - Engineer
                            - Water Management Technician           - Water Management Specialist
                                                                    1 in 13 RSU; Coordinator
Source: (1) Project Appraisal Document; (2) Regulatory Office, WUAs database, 2008, and WB Final
Implementation Review Mission, April 2008.

The WUA Support Units perform well. The SUs played a key role in the project's success. The
development of professional SUs was supported by efficient input during the early project years
of an international technical assistance team and a well-designed training program. In turn, the
SU staff implemented a training program delivering courses for WUA Councils and staff all over



                                                       25

the country, covering a wide range of subjects (details about training are presented in the
following section). All SU offices (except in the 13 raions with only one coordinator) are fully
equipped with furniture, office equipment, and vehicles. A training center has been established
under the DWR in 2003, with branches in all oblast and raion support units, also fully equipped
and operational to organize training courses and workshops.

The motivated and well-trained SU staff provided close support to WUAs throughout the
creation and registration process, and continue to date coaching the daily operation and
management activities, providing advice as needed in technical matters as well as in legislation,
financial matters, conflict resolution, and community development. The WUA SUs acquired
professional and legal recognition and built up a reputation as trustworthy institutions.

Integration of the Support Units into DWR. The SUs became fully part of the DWR
organizational structure by the end of the project. WB funding progressively decreased while
funding by the Government increased. At project completion, the SUs were indeed 100 percent
financed by the Government and they were integrated and institutionalized within DWR. The
integration of SU staff in DWR was possible based on a government decree that waived the
decision to reduce the number of civil servants within government, including DWR.

Technical Assistance. International individual consultants were recruited to assist in the
establishment and training of WUA SUs and provide expertise in institutional/WUA
development, promotion and training, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
engineering and water use, and legal issues. The capacity and expertise of the consultants was
adequately adapted to the needs expressed by the SUs and DWR.

The consultants made an efficient and significant contribution and supported the Kyrgyz
specialists to develop new capacities and skills, working closely with SU staff at all levels. Staff
recruited to work in the SUs mostly came from the DWR and had a background in the field of
irrigation engineering. Through formal training and on-the-job training while working closely
with the consultant team, their field of competencies was broadened. In line with the project
objectives, the team assisted the CSU in developing a well-defined training approach as well as
proper training manuals, curricula and schedules, and in becoming fully responsible for the
overall training activities regarding WUAs. A major achievement is the thorough understanding
SU staff acquired of WUA formation and development, and of the role WUAs can play in
sustainable irrigation development.

Training. The deployment of regular training sessions resulted in major achievements in
capacity building. With the assistance of the international training consultant, the CSU
developed a well-defined training approach. With a training strategy and content elaborated,
capacity was built on-the-job and in "cascade": CSU staff and international consultants trained
OSU staff, who thereafter took the lead in RSU staff training. During the first two years of the
project, the project started with many awareness sessions, attended by 1,079 persons in 2001 and
4,052 persons in 2002. From 2003 onwards, oblast and raion SUs selected the three most
advanced WUAs in a raion to receive comprehensive training. The graph below shows the pace
of training delivery. In parallel, SUs provided continuous advisory services to the other WUAs.
Once all WUA staff had received basic training courses, SUs started to carry out refreshing



                                                 26

courses and more focused training. Tools were developed for evaluation of the training courses
by the trainees which was used for improvement of the quality of training sessions and teaching
methods.

                                                                                 Number of Personnel Trained 2003-2008 (Quarter I)


                                                    14 000                                                                              500


       ses                                                                                                                              450
                                                    12 000                                                                                     d

                                                                                                                                        400     hesi
          ourC                                      10 000                                                                              350
              ng                                                                                                                                    blatsE
                niiarT                              8 000                                                                               300               sAU                         Number of Trainings Delivered
                      ehtta                                                                                                             250                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                      Number of WUAs established
                                                    6 000                                                                               200
                           e                                                                                                                                  ofreb
                            nc                      4 000                                                                               150

                              ndaettA                                                                                                   100                        muNla
                                                    2 000
                                                                                                                                        50                              Tot

                                                        0                                                                               0
                                                             2003        2004      2005       2006     2007         2008


Source: WUA monitoring system, Regulatory Office.

The WUA Council members, management, and staff attendance at the training courses has been
over 54,000 person days from the beginning of 2003 to the end of the first quarter of 2008.
Training was held during autumn, winter and spring, when farmers were less busy in the field.
All the WUA staff received training related to his/her functions. The graph below shows the
attendance at different training courses according to their subjects.


                                                                         Attendance at the different training courses 2003-2008 quarter I


                                                                         Computer Skills and Internet


                                                                            Community Development


                                                                               How to hold meetings


                                                                                  Conflict Resolution

                                     se                                                                                                                                                              2003
                                                                                                M&E                                                                                                  2004
                                       ursoC                                                                                                                                                         2005
                                            gnini                 WUA Formation and Develop-ment
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2006

                                                                      Legal Aspects of WUA Activity                                                                                                  2007
                                                 Tra                                                                                                                                                 2008 Quarter I
                                                                                          Engineering


                                                    General Administration and Financial Management


                                                                                 Water Management


                                                                     Training of zone representatives

                                                                                                      0   000   000    000   000   000   000                               000   000    000   000
                                                                                                             1     2      3     4     5     6                                 7     8      9     10
                                                                                                                      Number of Participants


Source: WUA monitoring system, Regulatory Office, June 2008.


                                                                                                              27

A large training room including facilities for simultaneous translation has been established in the
premises of the DWR where the CSU offices are located. Training rooms with basic equipment
including tables, chairs, overhead projector, and white boards have also been established in each
oblast and raion SU. These equipped rooms are real assets to conduct proper training.

Under OIP-2, there is still a need for strengthening staff capacities especially at raion level, and
to include in the training program further consideration of other factors impacting the project
such as agro-technical aspects, marketing, agricultural and economic aspects, and GIS, in
addition to water management and O&M planning.

Study Tours. The project supported study tours aimed at exposing DWR staff and WUA Council
Board members to a range of successful examples of WUA development in other countries
(Table 6). Four study tours have been organized to Turkey, USA/Mexico, and Armenia, with a
total of 33 participants. PIU staff participated in three workshops, including two on procurement
procedures and the seventh workshop on Involvement of Water Users in Irrigation Management
organized by the International Network of Participatory Irrigation Management (INPIM). These
activities have contributed to the understanding of PIU staff, SU staff, DWR staff and others of
WUA establishment, development and role, and to share their experiences.

                          Table 6: Study Tours Organized during the OIP

     Year    Destination                   Participants                           Content
    2002    Turkey       8     - Central, Oblasts and Raion SU staff   WUA establishment,
            Turkey       12    - Central, Oblasts and Raion SU staff,  development and activities.
                               - Heads of Raion DWR,
                               - WUA directors; and
                               - MOF representative.
    2003    Italy        2     - PIU procurement specialist; and       Workshop on procurement.
                               - MOF representative
            USA          8     - OIP staff; and                        WUA strengthening and
            (California)       - DWR staff                             achievement of economic
            and Mexico                                                 viability.
    2004    Albania      2     - CSU specialists                       Seventh INPIM workshop on
                                                                       Involvement of Water Users in
                                                                       Irrigation Management.
    2005    Italy        1     - PIU staff                             Workshop on procurement.
            Armenia      5     - CSU staff; and                        Water distribution and fees.
                               - MOF representative.
Source: PIU, June 2008.

WUA promotion seminars and awareness campaign. Seminars were held at oblast and raion
levels. The purpose of the seminars was to introduce the OIP objectives, the concept of WUAs,
and the role the WUA would play in the management, maintenance and operation of irrigation
systems to the local stakeholders in order to ensure their understanding of the WUAs and their
cooperation.

Starting in 2005, PIU staff and SU specialists at all levels were very active in organizing
awareness campaigns through media: TV, radio, and national, oblast, and raion press. A
dedicated WUA bulletin was also published since 2006. The objective was to widely inform the


                                                    28

population and to continue to familiarize the decision-makers and specialists about the status of
WUA establishment and development, the successes and the encountered difficulties and
measures to be taken to solve them.


                                               Communication campaigns


         gni               180
                           160                                            Suu-Jer-El-Water-Earth-People

            castdaorb 140                                                 WUA Bulletin

                           120                                            Agro Journal

            dna            100                                            Agro Newspaper

                            80                                            Raion Press
               sno          60                                            Oblast Press
                            40                                            National Press
                  catilibup 20                                            Radio
                            0                                             TV
                                 2005       2006   2007         2008


Source: PIU, June 2008.

During the project lifespan, specialists from projects in Kazakhstan, Georgia, Azerbaijan, and
Tajikistan came to visit the OIP in order to exchange experience about WUAs establishment and
development. These visits were opportunities to enhance the OIP successes and to develop the
project's reputation.

WUA Establishment and Development

The number of WUAs established largely exceeds the plans. At the start of project activities, in
May 2001, there were 121 WUAs registered in the Kyrgyz Republic according to the old Decree,
with a command area of 196,000 ha. At project completion, 455 WUAs have been registered
and supported, with a command area of 716,684 ha, covering 70 percent of the total irrigated
area in the country (Table 7 below).

         Table 7: WUAs establishment and development figures: plan and project completion

                               Description          Before project                          Project
                                                      May 2001      Planned in PAD*      completion**
Number of WUAs established                              121               160                 455
Total serviced area                                  196,000 ha                           716,684 ha
Number of WUAs with rehabilitated on-farm                0                80                   63
works
Total area of rehabilitated WUAs                                      160,000 ha          121,418 ha
Sources: * Project Appraisal Document; **Regulatory Office, WUAs data base, 2008, and WB Final
Implementation Review Mission, April 2008.

WUA development has been very rapid in the country in the first years of the project. In 2001,
the project had already exceeded the original target of establishing and working with 160 WUAs.



                                                        29

All WUAs have been legally re-registered. The PAD highlighted the fact that WUAs need to be
in areas where agriculture is productive enough for WUAs to be able to become financially
sustainable. Mountain areas with small parcels of irrigated land can be managed by household
units or groups of households. This suggests that the feasible target for the total number of
WUAs to be formed in the Kyrgyz Republic was more or less achieved.


                         WUAs registration and command area (1999-June 2008)


                500                                                  800
                450                                                  700
                400
                                                                     600
      UAs       350
         Wforeb 300                                                  500 aH        Number of WUAs registered

                250                                                  400   0
                                                                                   Command area under registered
                200                                                  300    '00    WUAs
         m 150
         Nu 100                                                      200

                50                                                   100

                 0                                                   0

                  1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008



A framework for shared decision-making is in place. It was foreseen in the PAD that the project
would incorporate mechanisms to ensure that water users have a major role in decision-making
concerning rehabilitation requirements and setting fees for the O&M of the I&D infrastructure.
A major achievement of the OIP was the restructuring of WUAs with a proper structure that
separates governance and management. In each WUA, a Council is elected by the WUA
members during the general or representative assembly. A team recruited by the Council and
typically comprising a director, an accountant, a technician, and one or more water masters
manage the WUA.

During the mid-term review in 2004, observations showed that water users were not sufficiently
informed about both project and WUA activities and decisions made by the WUA Council. A
system of WUA representative zones was therefore organized, with the WUA service area
divided into zones and with a representative in each of them. This system is expected to better
ensure that all members are involved in the decision process through a more relevant
representation. Table 8 shows that, at project completion, 78 percent of WUAs have a
Representative Assembly system.




                                                             30

                Table 8: Progress of the Reorganization of WUAs into Representative Zones

                                              Number of  WUAs with Representatives
                                 Oblast         WUAs           Assembly
                                                          Number       % of Total
                            Batken               31         31           100%
                            Jalalabat            66         50           76%
                            Issyk-Kul            59         54           92%
                            Naryn                48         38           79%
                            Osh                  85         68           80%
                            Talas                65         52           80%
                            Chui                101         63           62%
                            Total               455        356           78%
                         Source: PIU, June 2008.


Data provided by the Regulatory Authority office and compiled in the graph below shows that on
average, at least one annual assembly meeting was held, with the participation of more than two-
thirds of the members. Other positive signs of the involvement of members in WUA affairs were
observed, e.g. voting out of Council members because of dissatisfaction of the WUA members.


                                          WUA assembly meetings


             500
             450
             400
             350
       reb   300
                                                                                WUA established
          m  250
           Nu200                                                                WUA assembly meetings

             150
             100
              50
              0
                 2000    2001     2002     2003  2004   2005  2006


Source: PIU, June 2008.

The influence of local culture on the WUA process is apparent. The first priority for a WUA is
to organize the water distribution such that everyone in the community has access to irrigation
water. After satisfying this priority the WUA can focus on other issues, such as fee collection
and maintenance. Rural communities in Kyrgyzstan are tightly knit, and strongly community
orientated. If a member of the community is experiencing some difficulties other members will
try to assist, provided that the cause is genuine and the individual is trying his or her best to
resolve the situation. This explains why in many communities the irrigation service fee for some
of the poorer families is covered by the whole community. However, if a community member is
found to be dishonest in their dealings, he or she will be ostracized by the community, and can
suffer a rather unpleasant existence. Values of honesty, dignity, openness, respect, and
hospitality are the cornerstone of the Kyrgyz culture. Dignity is linked to a dislike of being in


                                                       31

debt, and to paying one's dues to others, individuals do not borrow more than they can repay, to
do so is considered irresponsible. This set of values helps to explain to a certain extent the
manner in which the irrigation communities have taken to the formation of WUAs. It appears
that the project and the actions of the WUA Support Units have been a catalyst which has given
the communities the mechanism and confidence to form associations to manage an important
communal process, that of water management.

Sixty-three WUAs benefited from OIP support for rehabilitation versus 80 WUAs envisaged in
the PAD. The main limiting factor for WUA rehabilitation was a lack of funds rather than the
eligibility of WUAs. A ranking system based on seven milestones was used for selection of
WUAs for rehabilitation, with WUAs having achieved milestone 4 being eligible for entering the
planning and design process for on-farm work rehabilitation. Among 455 established WUAs,
305 achieved milestone 4, 97 WUAs achieved milestone 7, while only 63 WUAs were included
into the rehabilitation program. There will be funds for about 29 WUAs under OIP-2.

Formation of Water Councils and WUA Federations. During the course of the project, the DWR
expressed its interest in forming federations of WUAs in order to allow WUAs to take over the
responsibility of O&M of some of the off-farm infrastructure. The Bank's mid-term review
considered that federations of WUAs could have benefits in the long-term, but that their
establishment requires first of all the development of strong WUAs. Therefore, a progressive
approach was recommended. The first step was the creation of water councils, representing
WUAs sharing a common water source, as well as DWR and local government. The purpose of
establishing such councils was to acquire experience of what is required to jointly operate off-
farm systems.

At project completion, 35 water councils were formed covering 229,408 ha. Presently, activities
of the water councils have mainly consisted of resolution of conflicts regarding water
distribution, agreement upon water turns, and supply schedules, and consideration of off-farm
system O&M. Water councils are also involved in applying for funds for canal cleaning and
structure repairs. By project completion 14 federations of WUAs were also formed and legally
established on a pilot basis, covering 121,683 ha. Further development of federations of WUAs
will be taken up by WMIP, while OIP-2 will support further training of such federations.

Technical credits. About half of the established WUAs, or 226 WUAs, have taken technical
credits from the project to purchase office equipment, furniture, field equipment, communication
facilities, and transportation means. The credit is subject to 100 percent repayment during seven
years, with a four year grace period. The total amount of credit provided is KGS 36.45 million,
out of which 59 percent has been allocated to WUAs included in the rehabilitation program.
Priority was given to those WUAs who benefited from the OIP rehabilitation program and 59 of
them (94 percent) received credit. This prioritization was also reflected in the average amount of
credit allocated per WUA which was much higher for WUAs with rehabilitation (KGS 367,500
per WUA) than for WUAs without rehabilitation (KGS 88,500 per WUA).




                                                 32

The analysis of data shows the following (Table 9):

  · The uptake of credit by WUAs where rehabilitation works had been carried out was
      significantly greater than WUAs where rehabilitation had not been carried out ­ generally
      from 3 to 5 times greater in terms of vehicles and equipment purchased, and 4 times
      greater in terms of amount borrowed;
  · A significant number (>85 percent) of rehabilitated WUAs purchased vehicles, compared
      to only 17 percent of non-rehabilitated WUAs;
  · A significant number (>93 percent) of rehabilitated WUAs purchased bicycles, compared
      to 44 percent of non-rehabilitated WUAs, emphasizing the importance by the
      rehabilitated WUAs placed on mobility and communication;
  · A significant number (>85 percent) of rehabilitated WUAs purchased computers,
      compared to 24 percent of non-rehabilitated WUAs; and
  · Almost double the number of rehabilitated WUAs purchased water measuring devices,
      showing a keener interest in discharge measurement.




                                              33

                                          Table 9: Vehicles and equipment purchased by WUAs under the technical credit scheme

                                                                                                                                                                   )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ks                                        t               gniru                   Total
           Oblast            forebm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cost, '000
                                      sA      elcih      elcycrot       ecl         retup       reipo                     xaF/                     re               KGS(
                                                                                                                              ne                     iltf                                                           dere                    noi              ne

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        utp                                    biac                        s        KGS

                                   Nu   WU         Ve            Mo        cyiB          m           ocot      retni            phoel      S
                                                                                          Co             Ph         Pr               Te     UP           lyppuS         draob        )m4.1(ks       )m2.1(ks
                                                                                                                                                                             ilef            De             De             moC     ria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ch       attsoidaR           ngiliF        asemreta   ceiv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W      de
All WUAs
Osh                         64              15          16            70          17           12             17         9                17     16               14                18             5             10              48        11              0                149                        8,241
Jalal-Abad                  28              23          3             27          24           18             24         14               24     24               29                22            10             11              83        9               0                184                        9,938
Batken                      23              10          6             7            9           5              9          5                9       9               9                 11             5             4               25        2               0                108                        4,471
Talas                       36               4          0             0            3           0              3          0                3       3               2                 3              0             2               9         0               0                108                        1,080
Naryn                       31              11          3             11          18           13             18         11               18     18               16                13             5             14              51        3               0                134                        5,619
Issy-Kul                    17              14          1             14          16           12             16         9                16     16               14                16             7             9               55        5               2                95                         6,102
Chui                        27               3          0             0            4           0              4          0                4       4               0                 1              3             0               4         0               0                28                         1,006
                     Total  226             80          29            129         91           60             91         48               91     90               84                84            35             50              275       30              2                806                      36,458
      Average per 10 WUA   10.00            3.54       1.28          5.71         4.03        2.65           4.03       2.12             4.03    3.98            3.72              3.72           1.55          2.21            12.17     1.33            0.09             35.66                        1613


Rehabilitated WUAs only
Osh                         14              11          5             18          11           8              11         6                11     10               9                 14             4             7               37        2               0                56                         4,837
Jalal-Abad                  12              12          2             24          11           11             11         7                11     11               13                11             3             6               52        6               0                78                         5,430
Batken                               7       7          6             7            6           4              6          2                6       6               6                 8              2             4               19        2               0                30                         3,328
Talas                                7       4          0             0            3           0              3          0                3       3               2                 3              0             2               9         0               0                28                            944
Naryn                       11               9          0             3           11           9              11         7                11     11               10                12             4             9               42        1               0                67                         3,738
Issy-Kul                             9       8          1             4            9           6              9          4                9       9               7                 8              3             6               35        3               2                63                         3,406
Chui                                 0       0          0             0            0           0              0          0                0       0               0                 0              0             0               0         0               0                              0                0
                     Total  60              51          14            56          51           38             51         26               51     50               47                56            16             34              194       14              2                322                      21,684
      Average per 10 WUA   10.00            8.50       2.33          9.33         8.50        6.33           8.50       4.33             8.50    8.33            7.83              9.33           2.67          5.67            32.33     2.33            0.33             53.67                        3614


Non-rehabilitated WUAs only
Osh                         50               4          11            52           6           4              6          3                6       6               5                 4              1             3               11        9               0                93                         3404
Jalal-Abad                  16              11          1             3           13           7              13         7                13     13               16                11             7             5               31        3               0               106                         4507
Batken                      16               3          0             0            3           1              3          3                3       3               3                 3              3             0               6         0               0                78                         1143
Talas                       29               0          0             0            0           0              0          0                0       0               0                 0              0             0               0         0               0                80                           136
Naryn                       20               2          3             8            7           4              7          4                7       7               6                 1              1             5               9         2               0                67                         1881
Issy-Kul                             8       6          0             10           7           6              7          5                7       7               7                 8              4             3               20        2               0                32                         2697
Chui                        27               3          0             0            4           0              4          0                4       4               0                 1              3             0               4         0               0                28                         1006
                     Total  166             29          15            73          40           22             40         22               40     40               37                28            19             16              81        16              0               484                       14775
      Average per 10 WUA   10.00            1.75       0.90          4.40         2.41        1.33           2.41       1.33             2.41    2.41            2.23              1.69           1.14          0.96            4.88      0.96            0.00             29.16                          890
Rehab/Non-rehab ratio       0.36            4.87       2.58          2.12        3.53         4.78           3.53       3.27             3.53   3.46             3.51              5.53          2.33           5.88            6.63      2.42            0.00             1.84                         4.06




                                                                                                                                       34

(b) Component 2: Infrastructure Rehabilitation and O&M Component

Selection. The Component was designed to support rehabilitation of on-farm I&D
systems under the management of WUAs that met certain pre-defined criteria and
milestones. Overall seven milestones were used, with WUAs achieving milestone 4
being eligible to enter into the planning and design process for rehabilitation. Although
many WUAs achieved the advanced milestones, it was possible to complete rehabilitation
for only 63 WUAs. According to the M&E database, out of the 455 registered WUAs, a
total of 305 WUAs achieved milestone 4, and 97 WUAs achieved milestone 7, 63 of
which have received support for rehabilitation under the project. The availability of
funds was the limiting factor, rather than the availability of eligible WUAs. All the
required milestones for 63 WUAs selected for rehabilitation are justified and reasonably
documented.

Rehabilitation works were carried out in 63 WUAs with a total command area of 121,436
ha, of which 51,608 ha (total investment of US$7.4 million) is in the North and 69,828 ha
(total investment of US$12.92 million) is in the South (Tables 10 and 11). Out of 63
rehabilitated contracts, 35 are in the South (Osh ­ 15, Jalalabat ­ 13, and Batken ­ 7) and
28 in the North (Talas ­ 8, Issyk-Kul ­ 9, and Naryn ­ 11). Average per hectare
investment cost is US$153/ha (in the North ­ US$157/ha, and US$151/ha in the South)
or some US$166/ha including some limited off-farm infrastructure rehabilitation cost.

The final cost of the component is US$21.06 million including IDA Credit of US$17.47
million and Government contribution of US$3.59 million. The total cost of committed
civil works contracts is US$20.3 million of which 25 percent or about US$5.08 million
would be repaid by WUAs. The repayment conditions include a four-year grace period,
followed by a three-year repayment period with semi-annual installments. The interest
rate equals the annual inflation rate, but cannot exceed 10 percent.




                                              35

                                Table 10: Status of Rehabilitation Contracts - Summary

Status of Rehabilitation Sub-Projects (Final, April 2008)

                        CW            Area '000 ha                   Cost            %                                CW     Area '000 ha      Cost      %
                      Contr          Incl     Cancel         $ mn    a/ $/ha   b/  total                             Contr  Incl    Cancel $ mn a/$/hab/total

South                                                                                            North/Center
  Osh                               128.4                                                           Talas                   113.2
     cancelled               3         -             8.2           0.4        47                        cancelled     -       -         -    -       -
     complete              15         28.4           -             4.0       141                        complete        8    15.5       -     1.7   110
     ongoing                                         -                                                  ongoing       -       -         -    -       -
              Osh          18         28.4           8.2           4.4       155      22%                      Talas    8    15.5       -     1.7   110    9%

  Jalal-Abad                        124.7                                                           Issyk-Kul               154.3
     cancelled               2         -             4.1           0.4        90                        cancelled       1     -         2.2   0.2    79
     complete              13         27.7           -             4.7       170                        complete        9    21.0       -     2.5   119
     ongoing                                         -                                                  ongoing                         -
         J-abad            15         27.7           4.1           5.1       183      25%                Issyk-Kul     10    21.0       2.2   2.7   128   13%

  Batken                              57.5                                                          Naryn                   119.8
     cancelled               2         -             2.9           0.8       285                        cancelled     -       -         -    -       -
     complete                7        13.9           -             2.6       187                        complete       11    15.1       -     3.0   195
     ongoing                                         -                                                  ongoing                         -
         Batken              9        13.9           2.9           3.4       245      17%                     Naryn    11    15.1       -     3.0   195   15%

South                               310.6                                                        North/Center               387.3
     cancelled               7         -            15.2           1.6       104                        cancelled       1     -         2.2   0.2    79
     complete              35         70.0           -           11.3        161                        complete       28    51.6       -     7.2   139
     ongoing                                         -                                                  ongoing                         -
          South            42         70.0          15.2         12.7        182      63%           North/Center       29    51.6       2.2   7.4   143   37%

Project TOTAL      c/               642.2
     cancelled               8         -            17.4           1.8       101
     complete              63       121.6            -           18.5        152
     ongoing                                         -
         Project           71       121.6           17.4         20.2        166     100%


  Notes
  a/ actual costs for completed contracts (best estimates as final payments to be made for few remaining contracts).
  b/ overall cost/ha including off-farm works.
  c/ whole country excluding Chui oblast.



                            Table 11: Rehabilitation Works carried out in the 63 WUAs

                                                                                  Command               Investment      Investment
                                                Oblast/WUA                           area                Cost('000        per ha
                                                                                     (ha)                  KGS)          (KGS/ha)
                            SOUTH
                              I         Batken
                              1         Kulundu-Razzakov                             2,899               37,902.19        13,074.23
                              2         Too-Jailoo                                   1,616               11,294.05         6,988.89
                              3         Ak-Suu-Halmion                               3,080               20,856.41         6,771.56
                              4         Kayindy-Okhna                                1,250               13,332.04        10,665.63
                              5         Besh-Batir                                   1,450               13,255.85         9,141.97
                              6         Ak-Suu-Kara-Bak                              1,849               16,967.96         9,176.83
                              7         Kyzyl-Kyr                                    1,750               20,773.29        11,870.45
                                        Sub-total Batken                           13,894              134,381.79          9,671.93
                             II         Jalalabat
                              1         Aral-Sai                                     2,238               16,513.08         7,378.50
                              2         Murat-Murap                                  2,424                 7,764.60        3,203.22
                              3         Kyla                                         2,118               21,245.92        10,031.12
                              4         Sarcha                                       1,454                 6,708.96        4,614.14
                              5         Sary-Tala-Suu                                1,805               18,904.25        10,473.27
                              6         Tushum-Suu                                   1,455               17,204.02        11,824.07
                              7         Shabnam                                      1,831                 8,969.52        4,898.70
                              8         Choko                                        1,450                 5,969.41        4,116.83
                              9         Murap                                        1,293               12,480.74         9,652.55
                             10         Kenehs-Suu                                   3,542               28,444.64         8,030.67




                                                                                   36

                            Command   Investment  Investment
            Oblast/WUA        area     Cost('000    per ha
                              (ha)      KGS)      (KGS/ha)
11   Kerben-Suu               2,496     8,637.03    3,460.35
12   Bozbu-Ata-Suu            1,729   24,700.72    14,286.13
13   Naryn-Suu                3,620   24,565.49     6,786.05
     Sub-total Jalalabat     27,455   202,108.36    7,361.44
III  Osh
 1   Rakhmat                  3,261   10,317.67     3,163.96
 2   Japalak                  1,867     8,107.99    4,342.79
 3   Jany-Arik                1,037    22,744.72   21,933.19
 4   Chomo                    1,593     8,812.02    5,531.71
 5   Jaloldinov               1,734    14,686.15    8,469.52
 6   Maz-Aikal                1,830    17,992.15    9,831.78
 7   Sahy-Darie               1,570     7,189.85    4,579.52
 8   Obu-Hayat                1,803     5,330.69    2,956.56
 9   Kashka-Suu               1,708     6,838.43    4,003.76
10   Mangyt-Hydro             2,047   13,507.96     6,598.90
11   Toolos-Nookat            3,365   16,942.00     5,034.77
12   Asir                     1,446    13,093.91    9,055.26
13   Kyrk-Kungey              1,538     4,398.32    2,859.76
14   Altyn-Kol-Bakhmal        2,138    11,678.31    5,462.26
15   Karaol-Dostuk            1,542    13,124.75    8,511.51
     Sub-total Osh           28,479   174,764.90    6,136.62
SUB-TOTAL SOUTH              69,828   511,255.05    7,321.63
NORTH
IV   Issyk-Kul
 1   Chyrpykty                1,100     6,541.92    5,947.20
 2   Temirdegi-Chon-Ak-Suu    2,148     8,491.23    3,953.09
 3   Toru-Aigyr               1,249     6,871.99    5,501.99
 4   Sual                      690      7,934.09   11,498.69
 5   Kardy-Jaryk              1,447     9,813.05    6,781.65
 6   Darkhan-Juuku            2,879     9,425.22    3,273.78
 7   Saruu-Juuku              3,056   26,515.18     8,676.43
 8   Shatyly                  6,251    12,262.29    1,961.65
 9   Burma-Suu                2,247    19,964.05    8,884.76
     Sub-total Issyk-Kul     21,067   107,819.03    5,117.91
 V   Naryn
 1   Kyzyl-Zoo-Dostuk         1,480     3,072.74     2,076.18
 2   Teshik-Suu               1,125     8,932.74     7,940.21
 3   Chagaldak                1,280   12,287.41      9,599.54
 4   Medet-Datkha             1,530   28,834.80     18,846.27
 5   Min-Teke-Emel            1,127     6,358.75     5,642.19
 6   Jon                      1,156   12,389.46     10,717.53
 7   Senkilta-Too-Bulagy      1,078     7,276.84     6,750.32
 8   Shish-Choku              1,527   10,575.41      6,925.61
 9   Orton                    2,010     9,504.99     4,728.85
10   Jogorku-Mai              1,058     3,895.13     3,681.59
11   Kolmo                    1,649     5,995.25     3,635.69
     Sub-total Naryn         15,020   109,123.52     7,265.21
VI   Talas
 1   Suu-Omur                 2,914     3,797.87     1,303.32
 2   Ogotur-Chon              3,983    16,596.89     4,166.93
 3   Bak-Bar                  2,385    12,245.04     5,134.19
 4   Sary-Kuurai                373     2,428.93     6,511.86
 5   Joon-Dobo                1,542     7,158.33     4,642.23
 6   Bel                      1,242     4,990.98     4,018.50
 7   Chyrkanak ­ 4              987     7,745.81     7,847.83
 8   Jorgo                    2,095    14,139.63     6,749.23
     Sub-total Talas         15,521    69,103.47     4,452.26
SUB-TOTAL NORTH              51,608   286,046.01     5,542.67
         GRAND TOTAL        121,436   797,301.06     6,565.61




                             37

The main works accomplished include 1,138 km of irrigation canals rehabilitated,
including cleaning, reshaping or lining, 142 km of drains cleaned, 32 night storage
reservoirs cleaned of sediment and structures repaired, 527 flow measuring structures
constructed, and 2,758 hydraulic and other structures installed on canals (Table 12).

                                 Table 12: Rehabilitated Structures

                                                            Night              Hydraulic

                   Oblast/WUA          Canal  Collectors   storage   Hydropost and other
                                       (km)     (km)     reservoirs    (nos.)  structures
                                                              (no.)                 (no.)
        SOUTH
          I   Batken
         1    Kulundu-Razzakov         42.80     0.00         0        14           50
         2    Too-Jailoo                9.20     0.00         0         4           30
         3    Ak-Suu-Halmion           20.90     0.00         0        43           72
         4    Kayindy-Okhna            20.80     0.00         0         2           33
         5    Besh-Batir               11.70     3.43         0         2           26
         6    Ak-Suu-Kara-Bak           9.40     0.00         0        13           43
         7    Kyzyl-Kyr                10.50     0.00         0        10           42
              Sub-total Batken       125.30      3.43         0        88         296
         II   Jalalabat
         1    Aral-Sai                 25.04     0.00         0         5         103
         2    Murat-Murap              21.60     0.00         0        37           72
         3    Kyla                      8.50     0.00         0        26           62
         4    Sarcha                   16.60    12.80         0         3           70
         5    Sary-Tala-Suu            31.00     0.00         0         0           93
         6    Tushum-Suu                9.40     0.00         0         3           54
         7    Shabnam                  16.00    36.00         0         5           52
         8    Choko                     6.10     0.00         0         4            9
         9    Murap                     6.90     0.00         0         4           57
         10   Kenehs-Suu               32.00     0.00         0        26          122
         11   Kerben-Suu                3.10     0.00         0         0            4
         12   Bozbu-Ata-Suu             9.40     0.00         0         0           37
         13   Naryn-Suu                 5.20     0.00         0         4           14
              Sub-total Jalalabat    190.84     48.80         0       117         749
         III  Osh
         1    Rakhmat                   8.40     0.00         0        13           33
         2    Japalak                  31.60     0.00         0        66           48
         3    Jany-Arik                25.60     0.00         0         9           80
         4    Chomo                    15.66     0.00         0         4           38
         5    Jaloldinov               13.98     0.00         0        15           28
         6    Maz-Aikal                16.09     0.00         0         8           82
         7    Sahy-Darie               10.50     0.00         0         9           18
         8    Obu-Hayat                26.46     0.00         0        11           63
         9    Kashka-Suu                8.80     0.00         0        11           61
         10   Mangyt-Hydro              3.10     0.00         0         3           64
         11   Toolos-Nookat             8.25    35.45         0        17           89
         12   Asir                      1.88     0.00         0        13           34
         13   Kyrk-Kungey               5.80     0.00         0         5           26
         14   Altyn-Kol-Bakhmal         9.47    39.93         0        22           41
         15   Karaol-Dostuk            30.69    14.01         0         9           94
              Sub-total Osh          216.28     89.39         0       215         799
        SUB-TOTAL SOUTH              532.42    141.62         0       420        1,844
        NORTH
         IV   Issyk-Kul
         1    Chyrpykty                 5.80     0.00         1        15           19

         2    Temirdegi-Chon-Ak-
              Suu                      24.30     0.00         1         7           36
         3    Toru-Aigyr               16.20     0.00         1         5           14
         4    Sual                      2.60     0.00         1         3           35
         5    Kardy-Jaryk              37.20     0.00         0        11           72



                                               38

                                                          Night              Hydraulic

                  Oblast/WUA         Canal   Collectors  storage   Hydropost and other
                                      (km)      (km)    reservoirs   (nos.)  structures
                                                            (no.)                 (no.)
          6   Darkhan-Juuku          75.00       0.00       1         5           23
          7   Saruu-Juuku            13.70       0.00       1         6           97
          8   Shatyly                17.50       0.00       1         4           49
          9   Burma-Suu              54.60       0.00       0         8           76
              Sub-total Issyk-Kul   246.90       0.00       7        64          421
          V   Naryn
          1   Kyzyl-Zoo-Dostuk       23.60       0.00       0         3           25
          2   Teshik-Suu             22.56       0.00       0         5           77
          3   Chagaldak              20.50       0.00       0         2           21
          4   Medet-Datkha           13.79       0.32       0         1           21
          5   Min-Teke-Emel          14.35       0.00       0         7           70
          6   Jon                    10.00       0.00       1         1            6
          7   Senkilta-Too-Bulagy    11.00       0.00       0         2           14
          8   Shish-Choku            30.30       0.00       2         6           10
          9   Orton                  37.55       0.00       4         3           39
          10  Jogorku-Mai            12.35       0.00       3         2            7
          11  Kolmo                   3.50       0.00       0         5           18
              Sub-total Naryn       199.50       0.32      10        37          308
         VI   Talas
          1   Suu-Omur               29.20       0.00       2         0           60
          2   Ogotur-Chon            41.20       0.00       5         0            5
          3   Bak-Bar                36.15       0.00       1         3           45
          4   Sary-Kuurai             6.00       0.00       0         0           11
          5   Joon-Dobo              18.92       0.00       3         2           41
          6   Bel                    16.00       0.00       0         0            4
          7   Chyrkanak - 4           0.60       0.00       4         1            6
          8   Jorgo                  11.09       0.00       0         0           13
              Sub-total Talas       159.16       0.00      15         6          185
         SUB-TOTAL NORTH            605.56       0.32      32       107         914
                GRAND TOTAL        1,138.00   141.94       32       527        2,758


Engineering design. Despite the relatively simple nature of most of the rehabilitation
works, there were initially some issues with poor design quality and drawings. IDA
implementation review reports indicated that OIP initially faced difficulties in finding
suitable design engineers. With the technical assistance provided by the engineers of the
IDA review missions, an obvious positive improvement was achieved, as later design
works covered more detailed information and were presented with improved quality
drawings. The review of some of the later design works showed that they were adequate
for the type of works under consideration.

The project envisaged that RSU staff would have an important function in the
development of the rehabilitation requirements and designs. During the early stage of
implementation of the rehabilitation program it became clear that the staff could not
focus both on WUA development and rehabilitation of infrastructure. At a certain stage,
there was too much focus on design work as there was a need to get the rehabilitation
component up and running. Therefore organizational arrangements for the rehabilitation
component were revised in October 2003 with the introduction of more technical field
staff dedicated to rehabilitation works through Oblast Rehabilitation Teams and a clear
allocation of responsibilities for all engineering staff. Each ORT comprised a design
engineer, a construction engineer, and a draftsman. These arrangements worked well,




                                              39

with good on-site collaboration for both design and construction supervision. Contractors
also expressed satisfaction with the arrangements.

Two design consulting companies recruited under the project (one for the north was
recruited in June 2002 and one for the south recruited in July 2003) had important tasks
under the project, not only to design more complicated works, but also to sign off on
ORT designs. The design companies were holding the license required to certify design
work, while not all ORT engineers had this authority. The result was that the design
companies scrutinized all the ORT designs before certifying the product. It can be
concluded that the project adapted well to the needs and made necessary changes to
achieve satisfactory design and construction supervision services.

Many WUAs opted for concrete lining of canals, but IDA review missions often stressed
that more attention needed to be paid to the requirements of regulatory structures such as
intakes, division boxes, culverts, outlets, cross regulators, energy dissipaters, flow meters,
etc., which will allow WUAs to distribute water among member farmers in a more
reliable and timely manner. IDA used a Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program
(BNWPP) Trust Fund to bring in international hydraulic specialists from California
Polytechnic to introduce modern structure design. On-farm canal lining should be used
only for limited sections of the system which are technically required to reduce or combat
seepage losses. At project completion more than 3,000 structures were constructed.

Quality of works implemented. In general the construction works were undertaken under
difficult conditions because of the harsh weather conditions and the obligation to ensure
continuous water supply during the irrigation season, which left only a short period
available for construction. Besides this, most of the local contractors at the initial stage
of project implementation lacked experience with work planning and implementation of
this type of extensive rehabilitation, and were not aware of the international standards and
how to prepare tender proposals. Considerable efforts were made by both the PIU and
IDA review teams during project implementation to ensure acceptable quality of both
design and civil works.

Supervision of Works. Sub-projects files are kept in WUAs, and at raion and oblast level
support units. Available information includes design files, daily activity reports of site
supervisors, monthly bills of completed quantities and bills of cumulative quantities,
certificates of used materials and equipment, certificates of concrete and soil compaction
works quality, "as-built" drawings, hand-over documentation, etc. It shows that the
overall supervision procedures were organized and carried out in an acceptable manner.

Repayment of Capital Investment by WUAs. None of the WUAs has reached the end of
the four-year grace period. From information provided, one WUA has started repaying
its share of the capital costs and some other WUAs are planning to start the repayment
ahead of agreed schedule.




                                              40

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Problems of Data Availability. The economic analysis in the PAD is based on
quantifying projected agricultural benefits by applying the following assumptions:
(i) average yields increased by 10 percent at full development in rehabilitated WUAs; and
(ii) average yields decreased by 1 percent per year in the without-project scenario.

During the latter stage of project implementation, two exercises took place aimed at
quantifying project impacts and benefits, in particular on crop performance:

     · a case study on on-farm rehabilitation impact was undertaken by M-Vector in
        April 2007. The study was based on field interviews with 496 farmers in 33
        WUAs in three groups: 13 WUAs having benefited from rehabilitation; 10 WUAs
        having received only support from the SUs; 10 WUAs not having benefited from
        the project; and
     · an in-depth analysis of 15 WUAs selected by the PIU M&E unit, mainly those
        that were among the first ones that had rehabilitation contracts completed.

It has proven difficult to quantify agricultural benefits and therefore conduct an economic
analysis for a number of reasons: (i) most rehabilitation was completed during the last
years of project implementation, i.e. in 2006 and 2007 and only 5 WUAs benefited from
rehabilitation in or before 2005; (ii) it is too early to witness benefits from rehabilitation
which are expected to take a few years to materialize at full benefit; (iii) there is no
systematic comparative analysis in the WUA database between WUAs having benefited
from rehabilitation and the other ones; (iv) the WUA reporting system and its yield data
collection system does not allow refined analysis of limited yield increases of the order of
10 percent; and (v) the M&E system did not collect field-based data on crop production
costs enabling the preparation of crop budgets for evaluation purposes.

Three analyses are prepared in the next paragraphs which appear to confirm that the
project is likely to achieve its development objective and to eventually yield a good
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), similar to the 36 percent calculated at
appraisal.

Cost Efficiency. One of the most important parameters applied for I&D rehabilitation
projects is the rehabilitation cost per hectare. The average of the project was US$153 per
hectare (see Annex 2 for more details), considering the 121,436 ha benefiting from
rehabilitation in the 63 selected WUAs. If the limited rehabilitation cost of off-farm
network rehabilitation is added, the average cost per hectare of the project reaches
US$166 per hectare. This is about 20 percent higher than the cost per hectare of US$138
foreseen at appraisal, including price and physical contingencies. This increase is partly
due to higher than expected increases in prices of construction material during the
implementation period. Yet, as a result of PIU efforts to contain costs, the absolute value
of US$166/ha remains low compared to the majority of rehabilitation projects in other




                                                41

countries, hence the efficiency of the proposed rehabilitation method (focus on priority
works) promoted by the project.

In terms of WUA strengthening, the cost effectiveness of the project is much higher than
was foreseen at appraisal. In the PAD, the base cost was US$5.23 million, corresponding
to a total cost of US$6.33 million (including 21 percent of price and physical
contingencies). At completion, the total direct cost for WUA development was US$4.60
million. This budget was also used to strengthen 455 WUAs, rather than the estimated
160 WUAs.

Yield Increases and Revised Cost Benefit Analysis. As mentioned earlier, the data
contained in the WUA database and collected through surveys cannot be used to fully
demonstrate project impact on yields. Yet, the data collected shows overall positive
trends even if it is not consistent for all crops (Table 13).

           Table 13: Yields of Major Crops per Category of WUAs (tons per hectare)

                                    2005                                2006
                        No                        SU         No                      SU
                      Support   Rehabilitated   Support    Support   Rehabilitated Support
  Winter Wheat            2.0         2.8          2.3        1.6       2.8          2.2
  Spring Wheat            2.1         2.0          2.5       2.0        1.7          2.2
  Barley                  1.5         3.4          1.6       1.5        2.0          1.0
  Corn                    2.0         2.7          2.6       1.7        3.0          2.2
  Kidney-Bean             1.3         1.3          1.6        1.2       1.7          1.4
  Cotton                  1.8         2.5          1.9       1.7        2.5          1.7
  Potato                 18.8         8.3          9.6       17.4       6.8         15.3
  Vegetables             25.0       29.4          10.3       30.0      27.3         10.4
  Permanent
  Grasses                 3.6         2.9          3.2        2.8       3.1          2.9


The following Table 14 summarizes the percentage of yield changes for the three groups.
The average is weighted by the average cropping pattern observed throughout the country.
On average, while crop yields did stagnate between 2005 and 2006 in rehabilitated
WUAs, it has decreased by 12.2 percent in the control group and has decreased by 4.9
percent in the WUAs which only benefited from the SUs. Rehabilitation appears to have
maintained yields while these have decreased in other WUAs: the net yield impact from
the project would be 11.8 percent from the combination of the two components and 7.3
percent from the first component. The first figure is very similar to the figure assumed at
appraisal, i.e. a net yield increase by 11 percent, corresponding to an increase by 10
percent with-project and a decrease by 1 percent per year without-project.

An attempt to re-calculate the Economic Rate of Return could be performed by assuming
that: (i) the above partial results from the survey with 33 WUAs are extrapolated to the
entire project, i.e. an average increase by 11.8 percent in rehabilitated WUAs compared
to non-beneficiary WUAs. This is very close to the assumption used in the PAD analysis
on a per hectare basis; (ii) compared to the PAD, benefits can be discounted by 24
percent as the area eventually benefiting from rehabilitation is only 76 percent of what
was planned at appraisal (122,000 ha instead of 160,000 ha); and (iii) the total cost of the



                                               42

project in US Dollars is the one estimated at appraisal. Based on these assumptions, the
ERR of the project would be reduced to about 20 percent. However, this is very
conservative considering that: (i) the above yield changes were measured for one year
only, while full benefit should materialize after a few years; and (ii) other substantial
benefits were not incorporated in the calculation as explained below.

       Table 14: Yield Changes of Major Crops per Category of WUAs (2005-2006)

                                               No Support   Rehabilitated    SU Support
     Winter Wheat                                -20%             0%             -4%
     Spring Wheat                                 -5%           -15%            -12%
     Barley                                        0%           -41%            -38%
     Corn                                        -15%            11%            -15%
     Kidney-Bean                                  -8%            31%            -13%
     Cotton                                       -6%             0%            -11%
     Potato                                       -7%           -18%             59%
     Vegetables                                   20%            -7%              1%
     Permanent Grasses                           -22%             7%             -9%
     Weighted Average                            -12.2%          -0.4%           -4.9%
     Net Change (compared to No Support)                         11.8%            7.3%

Other Economic Benefits. The following are believed to be substantial benefits from the
project though they were not incorporated in the PAD economic analysis:

 (i)   Crop intensity. Field visits have shown that some specific sections of the
       command areas have been reclaimed as a result of increased water availability.
       This is particularly true in 2008, in connection with the improvement of
       agricultural prices which motivates farmers to maximize land use. Although price
       improvement might be a major driver, this could not have happened without a
       secured supply of water, hence the contribution of the project to this improvement.

 (ii) Changes in cropping patterns. An aggregation of the WUA M&E data between
       2001 and 2006 shows some trend in cropping patterns which are summarized in
       the following Table 15 and graph. In summary, if the average of 2005-2006 is
       compared to the average of 2001-2002 (to mitigate the risk of comparing years
       with particular climatic conditions), the share of vegetables and beans
       substantially increased in the cropping pattern mostly at the expense of cotton,
       cereals, and other crops.

                    Table 15: Changes in cropping patterns (2001-2006)

                                          2001-2002       2005-2006         Change
      Wheat and Barley                      38.5%           36.1%             -6%
      Maize                                 7.1%            7.1%               1%
      Bean                                  3.7%            6.3%              67%
      Cotton                                11.7%           7.1%              -39%
      Vegetables, potato, gardens           10.7%           16.1%             50%
      Forage Crops                          14.4%           15.2%              6%
      Others                                13.9%           12.1%             -13%




                                             43

                Cropping Pattern in WUAs monitored by the Project (2001-2006)

   100%

   90%

   80%

   70%                                                                   Others
                                                                         Forage Crops
   60%
                                                                         Vegetables, potato, gardens
   50%                                                                   Cotton
                                                                         Bean
   40%
                                                                         Maize
   30%                                                                   Wheat and Barley

   20%

   10%

     0%
       2001        2002       2003        2004        2005       2006




  (iii) The economic benefits from decreased abstraction of water from the main system
        due to increased scheme efficiency have not been quantified. These result from
        possible economic use of the saved water downstream for agricultural or other
        purposes.

  (iv) The economic analysis focuses on the benefits from the second project component,
        i.e. increased crop production on the 160,000 ha benefiting from rehabilitation.
        However, the first institutional component alone has also brought substantial
        benefits to water users which were not quantified in the analysis, in particular as a
        result of improved organization water distribution and water availability and
        reliability. The yield figures analyzed above show that the WUA group 2 (only
        benefiting from the first component, i.e. SU support) saw a net average yield
        increase of 7.3 percent compared to the control group.

  (v)   Social benefits such as time saved by water users due to better organization of
        water distribution. Besides the benefits related to water availability and
        timeliness which have been incorporated in the benefits from yield increases, the
        WUA study has shown substantial social benefits from the project such as
        considerable savings in time spent on irrigation as well as a reduction of conflicts
        over water between water users.

As a conclusion, although it is too early to fully document project impact on agricultural
performance, the above partial analysis shows that the project is likely to reach its
development objective and therefore an economic performance close to the one projected
at appraisal.




                                              44

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                        Title               Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Joop Stoutjesdijk        Lead Irrigation Engineer          ECSSD  Task Team Leader
Joseph Goldberg          Sector Leader                     ECSSD  Sector Leader
Goetz Schreiber          Lead Agricultural Economist       ECSSD  Program Team Leader
Naushad Khan             Lead Procurement Specialist       ECSPS  Procurement
Stan Peabody             Lead Social Scientist             ECSSD  Social
Orunbek Smamkanov        Operations Officer                ECSSD  Institutions
Ranjan Ganguly           Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS  Financial management
Nikolai Soubbotin        Legal Counsel                     LEGEM  Legal
Rohan Selvaratnam        Financial Analyst                 ECSSD  Processing
Hannah Koilpillai        Disbursement Officer              LOA1   Disbursement
Jenny Corso              Project Assistant                 ECSSD  Task Team support
Nirmala Saraswat         Environmental Specialist          ECSSD  Environment
Tom Ward                 Consultant                        ECSSD  Costab, economics
Supervision/ICR
Joop Stoutjesdijk        Lead Irrigation Engineer          ECSSD  TTL and Engineering
Ainura Kupueva           Operations Officer                ECSSD  Operations, Agric.
Janna Ryssakova          Social Development Specialist.    ECSSD  Social
Nurbek Kurmanaliev       Procurement Specialist.           ECSPS  Procurement
John Otieno Ogallo       Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS Financial management
Norval Stanley Peabody   Consultant                        ECSSD  Social, WUAs
Lynette Alemar           Senior Program Assistant          ECSSD  Task team support
Nurjamal Asanova         Team Assistant                    ECCKG  Task team support
Martin Burton            Consultant                        ECSSD  Inst. Dev./M&E
Timothy Robert Jackson   Consultant                        ECSSD  Engineering/Env.
Sam H. Johnson           Consultant                        ECSSD  WUA Development
Benoist Veillerette      Agricultural Economist            FAO    ICR preparation
Samvel Ghazaryan         Irrigation Engineer               FAO    ICR preparation
Sylvie Dideron           Rural Sociologist                 FAO    ICR preparation




                                           45

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                          259.75
  FY99                                                          137.27
  FY00                                                          153.47
                        Total:         35                       550.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                   1                        5.15
  FY01                                 20                        70.92
  FY02                                 17                        97.28
  FY03                                 18                        89.39
  FY04                                 21                       143.37
  FY05                                 17                       111.64
  FY06                                 19                        74.28
  FY07                                 20                        86.23
  FY08                                 11                        54.48
                        Total:        144                       732.74




                                    46

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

There was no specific beneficiary survey at the end of the project, but the following data
was compiled from various sources of information that was available in the Department
of Water Resources.

M-Vector Impact Study (2007). The impact study carried out by M-Vector looked at 13
WUAs where rehabilitation works had been carried out by the project (Group 1), 10
WUAs which had received support from WUA Support Units (Group 2), and a further 10
WUAs where no or very little support had been provided until the time of the survey
(Group 3; typically newly established WUAs). A total of 496 farmers were interviewed,
66 WUA staff, 43 local government personnel, and 16 raion and oblast DWR staff.

The study sought to assess the impact of the project on WUA and water user
performance. Key indicators used were the irrigated area, the crop yield, the cropping
pattern, the volume of water used, the level of the ISF and the collection rate, and the cost
of O&M.

    · Awareness of the role of the project was high (91 percent, n=212) among farmers
         in the rehabilitated WUAs (Group 1) and also in Group 2 WUAs (80 percent,
         n=143);
    · For Group 1 there was a noticeable change in the assessment of indicators on
         water delivery by WUA staff, as shown in the table below:
             Indicator                         Good                          Good
                                       (Before rehabilitation)       (After rehabilitation)
                                              N = 13                        n = 13
Reliability of irrigation                       0%                           54%
Volume of water delivered                       0%                           62%
Timeliness of water delivery                    0%                           62%
Equity of water delivery                       23%                           46%

    · The perception among Group 1 for the indicators of reliability, delivered volume,
         timeliness and equity before and after rehabilitation show positive results, as
         indicated in the table below:
  Indicator        Rehabilitation Very good      Good         Medium     Bad           Very bad
                       status*       %            %             %         %               %
Reliability        Before            0            19            48        30              3
n = 121            After             11           66            19         3              1
Delivered          Before            1            15            53        29              2
volume             After             10           64            22         4              0
n = 119
Timeliness         Before            2            20            54        21              3
n = 109            After             12           62            20         6              0
Equity             Before            3            34            48        14              1
n = 88             After             12           70            16         2              0
                                  Very low       Low          Medium     High         Very high
Disputes           Before            13            7            48        28              4
n = 59             After             17           30            30        21              2
* Before ­ 2004; After ­ 2007




                                                47

    · Reliability and water volume delivered are reported by farmers as being due to
        repairs and maintenance to the canals; and timeliness and equity due to
        observance of the delivery schedule prepared by the WUA management.

Assessment of Project Performance. The project development objective for OIP-1 is to
achieve increased agricultural production through reliable and sustainable water
distribution. The project's outcome/impact indicators were stated as:

    i) Increase crop yields in the project farms that have benefitted from system
        rehabilitation by 10 percent (to be measured in a number of representative
         farmers' fields);
    ii) On-farm irrigation systems properly operated and maintained after completion of
         rehabilitation works; and
    iii) Supply and distribution within the project farms of adequate irrigation water in a
         timely manner, in line with crop water requirements.

In the hierarchy of objectives the following outputs from each component are stated:

    · Reliable and high quality management of rehabilitated irrigation systems:
            o Number of O&M plans developed in detail, fully costed and implemented
                each year after completion of rehabilitation works;
            o Representation and participation of users in WUAs;
            o Collection rates at least 90 percent of estimated tariff within two years
                after completion of rehabilitation works; and
            o Timely repairs to on-farm irrigation infrastructure.
    · Adequate irrigation water is received by farmers in the project farms:
            o Distribution efficiency of 80 percent achieved.

The data for these indicators was to come from WUA reports, annual reports prepared by
the WUA Support Units, PIU progress reports, Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Processing Industry statistics, DWR reports on water diversions, and IDA progress
and supervision reports.

Table 16 summarizes the outcome/impact and output indicators given above, together
with other relevant indicators and outlines how these have been used to assess the
outcomes and impacts of the project.

                Table 16: Summary table of project and other indicators

   Level/indicator         Target value                   Actual Outcome/Output
Outcome/impact
Crop yields             Increase of 10%  Data not sufficiently conclusive as yet to assess changes in
                                         crop yields. More time is needed and recommendations
                                         made for improving data collection for OIP-2.
On-farm irrigation      Not expressly    Encouraging signs found in relation to system O&M.
systems properly        stated           Water management staff, processes and procedures in
operated and                             place and functioning; well established institutional base.
maintained                               Equity of water distribution found to be satisfactory.



                                             48

   Level/indicator         Target value                        Actual Outcome/Output
Supply of adequate      Not expressly        M-Vector study found significant improvements for
and timely irrigation   stated               rehabilitated WUAs in water users' assessment of the
water supplies                               reliability, adequacy, timeliness and equity of water
                                             delivery.
Outputs
Number of fully         All rehabilitated    375 WUAs have achieved Milestone 3, well in excess of
costed O&M plans        WUAs (approx. 80     the target set.
implemented             No.)
Representation and      160 WUAs             Significant achievement under the project, with 455 WUAs
participation of users                       formed, 356 of which have Representative Assemblies.
in WUAs                                      Nearly 9,000 Zonal Representatives have received training
                                             under the project.
Collection rates of     At least 90% on      The average ISF Collection Ratio for the rehabilitated
ISF                     rehabilitated        WUAs is 73% (16 No.>90%, 22 No. >80%).
                        WUAs two years       Rehabilitation works has been completed over 2 yrs ago on
                        after rehabilitation 17 No. of these WUAs, who all have among the higher
                        (approx. 80 No.)     collection rates.
Timely repairs of on-   Rehabilitated        Difficult indicator to measure. Monitoring expenditure on
farm irrigation         WUAs (approx. 80     maintenance, average expenditure per unit area is 93
infrastructure          No.)                 KGS/ha, with a range 11-312 KGS/ha. Very dependent on
                                             the location (oblast and raion), but it seems that many
                                             WUAs are working towards increased maintenance of
                                             infrastructure.
Distribution            Rehabilitated        Not measured, as it is not an appropriate indicator for a
efficiency              WUAs (approx. 80     number of reasons, the main one being that it takes
                        No.)                 extensive field work to measure efficiencies accurately.
Other indicators
Payment of ISF to       Not stated in PAD.   Payment to DWR has increased over the duration of the
DWR ­ rehabilitated                          project over the country as a whole, from KGS 19.8
and non-rehabilitated                        million in 2001 to over KGS 43.5 million in 2007. The
                                             contribution of the ISF to the total DWR budget (excluding
                                             electricity costs for pumped irrigation schemes) during this
                                             period has risen from 15% to 25%.
Payment in cash         Not stated in PAD.   Payment in cash rather than in kind has improved
rather than in kind     Ultimate target:     significantly over the duration of the project. In 2002, the
                        100%                 payments were 64% in kind, 19% in cash, and 17% in
                                             labor. In 2007, the payments were 33% in kind, 58% in
                                             cash, and 12% in labor.
Level of WUA debt       Not stated in PAD.   The level of debt by water users to DWR has reduced
with DWR -              Target: Zero         significantly over the duration of the project, from over
rehabilitated and non-                       KGS 64 million in 2002 down to KGS 8.96 million in
rehabilitated                                2007.
Reduction of volume     Not stated in PAD.   The 2008 economic study identified reduced water
of water abstracted by  Target: Measure      consumption as a key economic benefit of the project.
rehabilitated and non-  against norms for    Further work required to measure water abstraction against
rehabilitated WUAs      crop demand          water demand based on crop type, area and irrigation
                                             norms.

Crop Yields. Efforts were made at various stages of the project to monitor the crop
yields. Initially the crop yield data collected by the Regulatory Authority from the WUA
Annual Report and the WUA Annual Survey was used, but these data were found to be
unreliable and as they were figures reported by the WUA that were not necessarily
statistically valid as averages for their command areas. In general, the data is not as yet


                                                  49

sufficiently conclusive to assess definite changes in crop yields and more time is needed
for farmers to adapt.

Given the number of landholdings and the variation of crop types grown within the WUA
command area improvements need to be made to the measurement of yields and
production. At present the crop yield data are generally taken from the Ayil Okmotu's
office. Improvements in the estimation of crop yield and production can only be done
with the support of the WUAs, and discussions should be held with WUA management to
see if they are interested in improving the accuracy of crop yield measurements and crop
production estimates. Rather than collect information from all farmers a sampling
approach is required which takes account of the mix of crop types, landholding sizes,
location, soil type, etc.

On-farm Irrigation Systems Properly Operated and Maintained. There are encouraging
signs in relation to system operation and maintenance in the southern oblasts. During
IDA review missions dedicated efforts were made to better understand how WUAs and
farmers manage and use irrigation water. The questions to which answers were sought
focused on the following areas of interest:

    · How farmers decide when to irrigate, and with how much water;
    · How well farmers manage the application of irrigation water on their fields;
    · How water demands are made, processed and managed;
    · How the WUA organizes itself for water management (staffing, procedures, rules,
        etc.);
    · How irrigation scheduling is organized and managed (turns, rotations, degree of
        control and measurement, etc.);
    · How volumes of water required and delivered are quantified; and
    · Are there water shortages and how are these managed.

Management of the distribution of irrigation water by WUAs, and its application to the
field by farmers, was generally adequate to good. All WUAs had systems in place for
taking requests from farmers, processing them and then delivering water. Where water
was in short supply WUAs had procedures for rotation of the available supplies. In
applying water to their plots farmers were observed to be controlling the flow to provide
uniform flow to each furrow, using header ditches to split the flow coming from the
quaternary canal. Furrows were well-formed and stream sizes in the furrows seemed
appropriate. In general the crops looked well irrigated and of uniform growth across the
fields, indicating uniform irrigation.

A key point observed during the field work was that the institutional base for water
management is now well established in many WUAs. There are well-equipped offices
with adequate levels of staffing and management processes. This is fundamental to good
water management where large numbers of smallholder farmers are involved. From this
base improvements can be made in the technical aspects, such as field application,
without it little would be possible. Through this institutional base one of the key criteria




                                             50

for good water management is satisfied, namely that distribution of water should be
equitable to all farmers.

An area where there may still be inefficiencies lies in the duration and thus the depth of
application of water. It has not been possible during field visits to ascertain if the
duration of irrigation was appropriate to the soil type and rooting depth of the crop. This
is an area where it has been recommended that further work is carried out by the WUA
SUs to find out the actual situation in the field, and if problems are found, to initiate a
program to make improvements.

A further possible area identified for improvement in irrigation water use efficiency was
to look at refining the duration of the flow allocation to farmers. During the field visits
the minimum time unit was found to be half a day (6 hours), but more commonly water
was allocated to farmers in units of 1 day. This is a very broad time frame, and probably
results in farmers using more water than they require.

Supply of Adequate and Timely Irrigation Supplies. This is a difficult indicator to
measure as there are few measuring structures within the WUA command area, other than
at the intake from the off-farm system. A proxy indicator for irrigation supplies at the
on-farm level would be the number of complaints from water users, and the level of the
irrigation service fee and its collection (on the assumption that unsatisfied water users are
less likely to pay their service fee than satisfied ones). Monitoring the volume of water
entering the WUA command area (each decade/month and total volume per year) is a
useful related indicator as it gives an indication of the water supply available, and can be
compared with previous years and with the cropping pattern to see if water abstraction
has reduced/increased and whether the cropping and crop area have changed. There are
possible mixed messages here as after rehabilitation the volume of water abstracted may
(should) decrease as the on-farm system should be more efficient, however with better
water supplies farmers may change their cropping pattern which may result in increased
demand.

Number of Fully-Costed O&M Plans. Data for this indicator have been collected by the
project, and are represented by Milestone 3. By end-March 2008, 375 WUAs had
achieved Milestone 3, well in excess of the 160 target set at the start of the project. There
is some concern that the level of the ISF set in some of these plans is not adequate for
sustainable MOM; this is a key area for WMIP and OIP-2 where studies will be carried
out to ascertain target values for different locations and systems, particularly in relation to
maintenance works.

Representation and Participation of Users in WUAs. The project has been very
successful in establishing WUAs, and has then moved on to establishing Zonal
Representatives in order to increase the level of participation by water users in the
management of the WUA. The majority of WUAs now have a Representative Assembly
(356 from 455), with 267 WUAs already having maps showing the Representative Zones
and zonal members and 8,964 meetings having been held. A significant amount of




                                               51

training has been carried out to support this process, growing from zero in 2004 to a total
of nearly 9,000 by the end of 2007.

Collection Rates of ISF. This is a key indicator for a number of processes: (i) it is a
proxy for the level of satisfaction of the water users with the level of service they are
receiving; (ii) it is a measure of the sustainability of the WUA over time; and (iii) it is a
measure of the sustainability of the main (off-farm) system service provider and main
system maintenance. Two key indicators are of interest here:

    · The collection rate of the ISF (%); and
    · The total value of the ISF collected per unit area (KGS/ha).

As expected, there is significant variation between each oblast in the total amount
collected per unit area for all WUAs. For Naryn and Issyk-Kul Oblasts the maximum
figures are around 160 KGS/ha, with the average for Naryn Oblast around 50 KGS/ha
and for Issyk-Kul Oblast around 100 KGS/ha. In contrast, for Osh Oblast the maximum
figures are around 600 KGS/ha and the average around 300 KGS/ha. For the collection
ratio there is no such variation between the oblasts, and the average collection rate among
all WUAs is around 70 percent. The total ISF (including the DWR payment) has been
gradually increasing over the duration of the project. The figure below shows the trend
with the average fee level being 4.68 tyin/m3 in 2007 compared with 2.74 tyin/m3 in
2001.


                                                                          Change in total ISF rate, 2001-2007

                         )
                        3                                           7
                          m/n
                             yi                                     6
                               (T et
                                    ra e                            5

                                        Fe ecivr                    4


                                                Se noitag           3


                                                                    2
                                                         rriI lat   1
                                                                 To
                                                                    0
                                                                       2001   2002       2003      2004    2005   2006  2007

                    Osh                                                3.14    3.24       3.57      3.72    3.44  3.75  3.94

                    JalalAbad                                          3.72    3.32       3.56      4.56    4.14  3.39  3.93

                    Batken                                             2.29    2.56       2.88      3.36    4.17  4.95  6.31

                    IssykKul                                           2.07    2.33       3.7       4.38    4.93  4.21  5.85

                    Naryn                                              0.96    1.1        1.17      2.58    2.11  3.03  3.31

                    Talas                                              3.29    3.34       3.45      3.51    3.79  4.16  4.48

                    Chui                                               3.69    3.83       4.39      4.48    4.83  4.95  4.96


              Source: 2007 Annual Report and Quarter IV, 2007 Progress Report, OIP.




                                                                                          52

Timely Repairs of On-farm Irrigation Infrastructure. This is a difficult indicator to
measure without detailed field work. A possible proxy indicator is the amount of
expenditure on maintenance, but this indicator does not pick up if the maintenance work
is timely or not. The timeliness of repairs to on-farm infrastructure will affect the water
delivery which in turn may affect the crop yields and the payment of the ISF.

Distribution Efficiency. This is an ambitious indicator to measure, but also not a good
indicator as it only measures the efficiency while the water is flowing in the canal, and
does not take any account of whether the volume delivered to the field matches the
irrigation demand. Knowing the distribution efficiency is of no consequence if the canal
flows at night and no-one uses the water. It is better to look at the total volume of water
delivered to the WUA command area and then compare this with the total seasonal
demand estimated from the crop norms or using CROPWAT. It is better to compare the
supply each week or decade against the weekly or decade irrigation demand.

Payment of ISF to DWR. This is an important indicator of: (i) the ability and willingness
to pay; (ii) the status of the WUA and its ability to collect service fees, both for itself and
the DWR; and (iii) the level of service provision by the WUA and the DWR. As shown
in the figure above, there has been a steady increase in the ISF paid by all WUAs.
Equally importantly, the percentage payment of the fee due has increased, resulting in a
significant reduction of the level of debt to the DWR since the start of the project. The
contribution of the ISF to the DWR budget rose from KGS 19.8 million to KGS 43.6
million during the project.

Payment in Cash Rather than in Kind. The break-up of the Soviet Union caused massive
disruption to agricultural goods marketing and trading systems. Virtually overnight the
established systems were redundant, and new systems were needed. As a consequence,
in the 1990s the service fee due to DWR was paid in kind rather than in cash. An
important emerging objective of the project has been to improve the payment in cash, as
this reduces the transaction costs. The figure below shows that this has been achieved
over the duration of the project, with the payment in cash increasing significantly from
KGS 7.2 million (19 percent of total paid) in 2002 to KGS 25.3 million (58 percent) in
2007, with a corresponding reduction in the payment in kind (crops) from KGS 23.7
million (64 percent) to KGS 14.3 million (33 percent), and in labor from KGS 6.3 million
(17 percent) to KGS 4.0 million (9 percent)




                                              53

                                                               Forms of payment of ISF, 2002-2007

                                                  50,000                                                             120%

             )S                                   40,000                                                             100%
               KG 
                                                  30,000
                  000'( tne                                                                                          80%

                                                  20,000
                           my                                                                                        60%

                             pa                   10,000
                                of eul                                                                               40%
                                                       0

                                      Va
                                                 10,000                                                              20%


                                                 20,000                                                              0%
                                                          2002       2003       2004       2005     2006     2007

                                         Amount due       45,707     43,336    47,199      41,497   43,163   40,673

                                         Total paid       37,251     35,900    39,941      42,170   45,571   43,719

                                         Payment in kind  23,669     22,898    23,302      21,338   21,874   14,342

                                         Cash             7,217      9,238     11,834      14,850   18,228   25,341

                                         Labor services   6,365      3,761      4,717      5,982    5,468    4,035

                                         Debt to RDWR     8,456      7,436     7,258        673     2,408    3,046

                                         Percentage paid   81%       83%        85%        102%     106%     107%


            Source: OIP Annual and quarterly reports, 2002-2007

Level of WUA Debt with DWR. The level of water user debt with DWR is a key indicator
of stability and productivity at the on-farm level. Though the amount due has decreased
by about 11 percent (from KGS 45.7 to 40.7 million) over the period 2002-2007 (see
figure above) the total amount paid has increased significantly as a result of an increase
in payment levels, from 81 percent (KGS 37.2 million) in 2002 to 107 percent (KGS 43.7
million) in 2007. The level of annual debt to DWR was noticeably reduced, with
"surplus" payments during 2005-2007 paying off outstanding debts.

In 2002 the debt to DWR was KGS 64 million, and in December 2007 the WUA debt to
the DWR was KGS 8.96 million. Account needs to be taken of the fact that KGS 6.9
million of bad debt to DWR by water users was written-off in a government resolution
dated September 19, 2007. Even with this write-off the level of debt has decreased
markedly over the period of the project.

Reduction of Volume of Water Abstracted. The intention of using the distribution
efficiency as a measure of project performance was to measure the improvement of on-
farm water distribution. As explained in the section above it is rather a limited indicator,
difficult to measure and does not capture all the possible improvements that might be
brought about by the project. A more comprehensive measure is to look for a reduction
in the quantity of water abstracted, on the basis that improvements in distribution
efficiency, scheduling, level of control over water, on-farm application, and water
management in general will result in a reduction of water used. In water-short locations
this is an important factor, with more water being made available by top-end water users
to bottom-end users. Another study carried out by the PIU identified reduced water
consumption as a key economic benefit of the project. Further work is required,




                                                                             54

however, to measure water abstraction against water demand based on crop type, area
and irrigation norms. This will be done under OIP-2.




                                          55

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

There was no end-of-project stakeholder workshop.




                                         56

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, reviewed the draft ICR and provided the
following comments.


To:    World Bank Country Office in the Kyrgyz Republic

From: Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic

Date: November 13, 2008

Having reviewed the final Report on the On-farm Irrigation Project the Ministry of
Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic has the following comments:

    1. Results of the project have shown that it was impossible to implement physical
       rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation facilities in full (only 122,000 ha of the
       projected 160,000 ha were rehabilitated).
    2. An apparent achievement of the project is the establishment of 455 Water User
       Associations (WUA) in the country, while 160 WUAs were projected.
    3. The main purpose of the project - increase in agricultural crop yields by 10
       percent on the rehabilitated areas ­ has not yet been fully achieved. Based on the
       Report, this is mainly because little time has passed after rehabilitation works on
       the facilities. In the years to come the WUA Support Units and the Department of
       Water Resources (DWR) should carry out additional assessment of the project
       results in terms of the yield.
    4. The Ministry of Finance would have liked to see transfer of some higher-order
       irrigation infrastructure from DWR to WUAs in order to decrease the burden to
       the republican budget. The Project has placed little emphasis on this. On the
       contrary, according to the Report, due to financial inability of some WUAs, the
       Government is expected to continue financing the rehabilitation of WUA-
       managed infrastructure by allocation of funds from the national budget or from
       donors.
    5. However, there are many positive things, and "satisfactory" rating for the results
       of the On-farm Irrigation Project is acceptable.

Ms. T. Kalimbetova
Minister
Ministry of Finance




                                             57

                                                                       Unofficial translation

                                                                         November 13, 2008


                                                                   Acting Country Manager
                                        World Bank Country Office in the Kyrgyz Republic
                                                                            Djoldosheva D.


Dear Dinara Sabatbekovna,

        The Ministry of Agriculture, Water Facilities and Processing Industry having
reviewed the Implementation Completion Report for On-farm Irrigation Project (OIP)
together with the Department of Water Resources is noting that this report summarizes
achiviements and overall results of OIP undertakings.

        In reality the implementation of this project was very timely and important for the
agricultural sector of the country as it helped to solve the occurred problems of on-farm
level by means of formation and development of Water Users Associations (WUAs). At
that moment there was no prior experience of instituational development i.e. formation of
such organizations as WUAs that could have taken the responsibility of managing the
irrigation infrastructure. Nevertheless, 455 WUAs covering more than 70 % of all
irrigated lands of the republic were created at the time of project's completion thanks to
the good design and successful implementation of OIP, which envisaged the creation and
training of WUA support units, and regular technical assistance from the side of the
World Bank, supervision mission members. We believe that strong foundation for
creation of water users' organizations has been established and the process of their
development has become of irreversible manner due to the achievements of OIP
implementation.

        I would like to mention the high quality of work done under supervision missions
led by Mr. Joop Stoutjesdijk, clear, concise and explicit replies of the WB to letters and
good and constant assistance of the World Bank Country Office.




                                          A. Nogoev
            Minister of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry




                                              58

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                    59

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Various pieces of relevant legislation, including the WUA law and the Water
      Code;
  2. Various preparation reports by consultants and Bank staff;
  3. Project Appraisal Document for OIP ­ World Bank, May 10, 2000;
  4. Development Credit Agreement (On-Farm Irrigation Project) ­ June 29, 2000;
  5. Project Implementation Manual ­ OIP PIU, 2000;
  6. Case Study of On-farm Rehabilitation Impact under OIP ­ M-Vector Consulting
      Agency, April 2007;
  7. Various Project Status Reports prepared by PIU;
  8. Various Annual Report prepared by PIU;
  9. Environmental monitoring program (final report, Russian), January 2008 (K.
      Karpachev);
  10. Various IDA implementation review Aide Memoires, including IDA 8th
      Supervision Mission ­ Mid Term Review (May 2004) and IDA 16th and Final
     IDA Implementation Review Mission (April 2008)
  11. Various working papers prepared by IDA review staff;
  12. Economic and Financial Assessment of OIP Water Use Association (WUA)
      Rehabilitation Activities, for OIP-2 Guidance ­ Final Report ­ Chris Finney,
      April 2008;
  13. OIP-1 Final report (Russian) ­ Completion Project Report (English), OIP PIU,
      May 2008;
  14. Various design reports;
  15. Sample contracts for repayment of 25 percent of the investment costs (Russian);
  16. Data from the National WUA Monitoring and Evaluation System (NAWMES) ­
      June 2008.




                                           60

