Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21500
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35310)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
DECEMBER 19,2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) = 100 Fen
RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.1207
US$ I = 8.2782
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMS           -      Electrical and Mechanical Systems
FIDIC         -      Federation Intemationale Des Ingenieurs Conseils
GOVAI         -      Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HPCD          -      Henan Provincial Communications Department
MOC           -      Ministry of Communications
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
NPV           -      Net Present Value
NTHS          -      National Trunk Highway System
NWR           -      Northwest Region Roads
RIP           -      Road Improvement Program
ZLE           -      Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Manager:   Jacques M. Tollie, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2, Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         9
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       11
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Information                                                              17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003581                                        Project Name. HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Jacques M. Tollie                             TL Unit. EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                           L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35310
Country/Department: CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/20/90                                 Effective: 03/24/93            03/24/93
Appraisal:  02/06/92                                   MTR:
Approval:  11/17/92                                 Closing: 06/30/98             06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/HENAN PROVINCIAL
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                 Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                          Daud Ahmad
Team Leader at ICR:   Jacques M. Tollie                         Heman Levy
ICR Primary Author:   Ephrem Asebe; Jacques M.
Tollie
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to: (a) relieve congestion in the heavily trafficked east-west corridor traversing
Zhengzhou, capital of the 90 million populated Henan province, and linking Henan and western provinces
to the new port of Lianyungang on the eastern shore; (b) improve accessibility in the province through
rehabilitation of the provincial and rural road network; (c) strengthen highway sector agencies, mainly in
the areas of investment planning, construction and maintenance management, and environment
management; and (d) improve the efficiency of road freight transport services, with a particular emphasis
on enhancing competition and facilitating entry by collective and small private operators.
The project objectives were clear, focused and responsive to the development needs of the province. They
also had high national priority. Recognizing the anticipated traffic growth, the Government had identified
transport bottleneck to be one of the most severe constraints to economic growth. The economic reforms
introduced since 1979 had led to a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traffic, severely taxing the
transport system. The project was designed to achieve a better balance between demand and supply for the
sustained development of the economy. As such, the objectives were in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance strategy which supported sectoral reforms and investments aimed at removing infrastructure
bottlenecks and modernizing the transportation system and its management.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
3.3 Original Components:
The project components consisted of: (a) construction of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway, including
service facilities and toll stations; (b) rehabilitation and improvement of five provincial roads and six rural
roads in Northwest Henan where some of the poorest counties of the province were concentrated; (c) a
province-wide local roads improvement program; (d) institutional strengthening through training and
equipping of selected agencies in the Communications Department; and (e) a trucking study.
These components were well related to achieving the objectives. In particular, the design was reasonably
balanced between institutional capacity building and development of the road network; and within the road
development components, it was balanced between the national, provincial and rural networks so as to
capture fully the benefits from the investments being made. However, the project was technically
demanding for the implementing agencies as the project's major component, the expressway including all
facilities and the installation of electrical and mechanical systems (EMS), was the first to be constructed in
Henan. Also, the design of the project underestimated the impact of traffic growth, compounded by the
on-going rationalization of railway operations (specialization on long-distance traffic); it soon became
apparent that the single carriage-way Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway was not adequate to handle the
rapidly growing traffic and the design was changed to double carriage-way. In other respects, the design of
the project identified all other important risks and provided adequate mitigating measures. In particular,
satisfactory arrangements were made to preserve cultural properties and minimize risks of delays in the
archeological zones traversed by the expressway.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The expressway was identified as top national priority and its first feasibility was carried out as far back as
1986 and was later updated in 1988. However, by 1994, rapid changes in traffic growth due to the
continued booming economy and the diversion of traffic from railroad (following the railroad refusal to
transport freight for distance of less than 200 kilometers) necessitated the move from single to dual
carriage-way for the construction of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway. The additional financing was
however bome by the Govenmuent and no restructuring of the project was deemed necessary.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is considered satisfactory, based on the relevance of project objectives, the quality of
the technical, economic and financial analyses, the attention to preservation of the environment and cultural
heritage, implementation readiness, and overall risk assessment and sustainability. Like most Bank financed
projects of that period, the performance indicators were not explicitly developed; they were however
retrofitted in the project at a later stage of project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has substantially achieved its major development objectives, the main shortcoming being the
delay in the installation of the traffic engineering systems on the expressway. The overall satisfactory
rating is based on the performance indicators shown in Annex 1. The physical targets have been
substantially met with satisfactory economic returns. The significant traffic increase in the
Zhengzhou-Luoyang corridor is no longer a problem for the province. Delays in implementation of the
EMS works have been compensated by manual operation of some functions of the expressway. The road
rehabilitation in Northwest Henan and the Road Improvement Program have substantially enhanced
accessibility in remote areas of the province. The agricultural and industrial output value index has shown
a steady increase in all counties affected by the project. Performance with safeguard policies including
environmental, cultural property, and involuntary resettlement has been satisfactory. The training of staff
has resulted in better performance of the five entities of HPCD that were selected for strengthening under
the project. Some of the recommendations of the Henan Trucking Study have been implemented and an
action plan has been developed for further implementation, complementing actions taken by the province
for trade facilitation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1   Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased. The construction of the 120 km
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway (ZLE) has significantly eased traffic operation in the corridor.
Construction of the expressway commenced in January 1993 and was completed on schedule after the
contractual period of 36 months. The project was among the first to be competitively bid and administered
under FIDIC conditions in the province. A two-year extension of the loan closing date was necessary to
complete the traffic engineering contracts which required the supply and erection of the
electrical/mechanical systems comprising the surveillance/control system, toll system and communication
system. This delay resulted in a somewhat lower level of service of the expressway because of manual
operation of the toll collection system and unavailability of other traffic control systems.
-3 -



4.2.2   Accessibility in remote areas in the province improved. The component consisted in the
rehabilitation and improvement of 5 provincial roads (180 km) and 6 rural roads (112 kin) in the Northwest
region of Henan Province, and a total of 15 provincial roads (381.5 km) and 7 rural roads (110 km) under
the Road Improvement Program. The general observation is that the rehabilitation of these roads has
significantly improved access to the remote areas and expanded growth opportunities in poor areas of the
province. The impact of this component was rated as highly satisfactory by local officials, who stressed
that the communities served by the roads have seen their living standards improved by exploiting and
selling local resources in the area. There was generally high demand at the local level for more Bank
involvement in rural roads programs.
4.2.3   Supervision of Construction. Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway was supervised by a joint
foreign/local team, which performed relatively well. The traffic engineering contract for
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway was also supervised by the same team. A local team supervised the roads
in northwest Henan and RIP. The teams' performance have been satisfactory.
4.2.4 Equipment acquisition programs. Two programs were procured, the first for the operation and
maintenance of the expressway, and the second for the institutional strengthening component. All
equipment included under the project have been procured, delivered, and put to use by the relevant
agencies.
4.2.5   Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network enhanced Overseas
as well as domestic training have been completed satisfactorily and there is a strong sense that the
institutional strengthening program has had a positive impact on the management of the provincial highway
sector. Both domestic and overseas training afforded opportunities for Henan Provincial Communication
Department staff to acquaint themselves with the latest technologies in highway construction, management,
and maintenance. A total of 233 persons (or 233 person-months) for domestic training and 124 persons (or
134 person-months) for overseas training were provided. On-the-job training and technology transfer by
the foreign supervision consultant team were also offered. In total five institutions in HPCD were provided
specific training and modem equipment: the Planning, Survey and Design Institute, the Scientific Research
Institute, the Transport Polytechnic School, the Transport Vocational School, and the Expressway
Construction Management Bureau. All acknowledged a positive outcome in terms of increased efficiency
in discharging their duties. In particular, the Expressway Construction Management Bureau was exposed
to modem methods in toll road organization and management, and is now ready to corporatize itself into an
Expressway Company as part of the current restructuring of HPCD.
4.2.6   The Trucking Study. This study was satisfactorily completed in 1994. It was reviewed by a
Review Panel in a meeting attended by Bank held in late 1994. The study was highly acclaimed by the
Review Panel for: (a) the methodology it used; (b) the effective use of the joint local and foreign team of
experts; and (c) its realistic analyses and practical recommendations with potential application at the
national level. Several recommendations of the study have been implemented, including the creation of
cargo consolidation terninals, vehicle inspection stations, weigh bridges maintenance and repair facilities,
and rationalization of policies and regulations governing the trucking industry. The provincial government
has given adequate attention not only to state-owned trucking enterprises but also to the development of the
private trucking industry, and put emphasis on the construction of strategically located highway transport
hubs in an effort to promote long distance trade.
-4 -



4.2.7  Impact of Land Acquisition and Resettlement.
The impact of the project under the ZLE, the Northwest Region Roads (NWR), and the Road Improvement
Program (RIP) can be summarized as follows:
ZLE               NWR                RIP
Planned   Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual
Land acquisition    11,701    11,988   n.a.     3,077    n.a.      1,541
House demolition    122,913   136,918  n.a.     48,650   n.a.      37,153
(sq.m)                       I
People affected by    5,527   5,660    n.a.      1,776    n.a.     3,392
relocation                   I                          I
The larger than expected impact explained that the resettlement cost was increased by about 63%, mostly
incurred for the construction of ZLE due to some missing items of temporary land use in the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) and the increase in construction/reconstruction of infrastructures in the relocated
villages. The amount of land acquisition under the project represented only 1% of the total cultivated land
in the affected villages. The farmers spent the land compensation funds in opening wasteland, improving
irrigation systems and increasing agricultural outputs. Some farmers in villages where a large amount of
land acquisition was required, found new jobs in local enterprises. The resettlement evaluation undertaken
by the independent monitoring unit showed that the net income of the project affected people has been
improved for all. The resettlement objectives have all been met, i.e. restoration and improvement of
income, livelihood and productivity of the affected people. All activities planned in the RAP including the
rehabilitation program have been successfully completed.
4.2.8 Environmental Monitoring Results.
Since the Zhengzhou-Luoyang corridor traverses mostly flat terrain and some hilly areas, construction of
the ZLE was expected to have only very limited adverse impact on the environment, except in hilly areas,
as soil erosion and drainage problems would occur; those were adequately identified and assessed in the EA
report with mitigation measures in the EAP. Relevant engineering design and technical specifications
provided specific treatments for the protection of embankment slopes and roadside drainage, which were
applied during the construction and operation phases. No unforeseen adverse environmental problem
emerged, either on ZLE or on the RIP and roads in Northwest Henan. Environment related
reports/information were delivered on time to relevant parties in accordance with the project requirements.
Some erosion or slope failures were reported, with a risk of temporary disruption and potential pollution to
irrigation channels. However, HPCD were well equipped to handle such emergencies promptly and
efficiently. Also, reduction of noise in towns and villages along the ZLE has been generally effective,
owing to appropriate mitigation measures such as noise barrier installation. Control of air pollution has
been more problematic in some areas, since factors were mostly outside the purview of the implementing
agency.
Protection of cultural heritage was particularly well handled. Because of the archeological importance of
the last section near Luoyang, ancient capital of China, HPCD decided to (i) conduct an expanded survey
of the sensitive area during project preparation and (ii) to start work on this section as soon as possible to
mitigate any risk of delay in case of discovery during construction. The survey conducted before appraisal
resulted in the discovery, excavation and recovery of historical relics from 133 undiscovered tombs along
the right of way. Most of these are now on display in a special museum near Luoyang. Works on that
-5-



section were allowed to commence early under advance contracting. Those measures proved effective in the
preservation of the sites.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The Expressway. The Economic Intemal Rate of Retum (EIRR) of the expressway is estimated
to be 25.1 % versus the SAR estimate of 28.9%, and the Economic Net Present Value (ENPV), at discount
rate of 12%, is estimated to be RNMB 1.74 billion versus RMB 3.46 billion. The recalculated EIRR and
ENPV are lower than anticipated at appraisal mainly because of significant increases in project costs
despite the higher traffic on the expressway. The detailed economic analysis is in the ICR files (Annex 7)
and a sunmmary is provided in Annex 3.
4.3.2  Northwest Region Roads (NWR) and Road Improvement Program (RIP). The NWR component
was implemented as planned in the SAR. However changes occurred under the RIP which followed a
programmatic approach. The EIRR for the NWR and RIP as a whole is estimated at 42.9%, a substantial
increase from SAR expectations ( in the SAR, the EIRR for NWR's provincial road portion is 20.3% and
for the rural road portion the rate is 30.5%. The EIRR for RIP was not available). Because the scope of
RIP was changed, the ICR and the SAR evaluations of the RIP are not fully compatible. Details are
provided in Annex 3.
4.3.3  EIRR and NPV for the total project. The EIRR and ENPV for the total project (the expressway,
NWR and RIP) is estimated to be 29.6% and Y 6.15 billion, respectively, compared with 28% and Y 2.17
billion estimated in the SAR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two types of analyses. The first type of
analysis is for the revenue earning entity; and the second type analysis is for the non- revenue earming
entity. Since the expressway (whose cost constitutes about 73 percent of the total project cost) generates
revenues through tolls and there is no revenue for most of the roads under NWR and RIP, the analysis will
focus on the expressway first, then on the fiscal impact of the NWR and RIP programs.
4.4.2 Revenue Earning Entity. At the opening of the new facility in late 1995, HPCD established a
bureau to operate the expressway. The toll charges are the main revenue for the bureau, which is strictly
controlled by the government. The net profit after tax is low because of the rigid toll control. The basic
principle for toll collection on the expressway is repaying the Bank's loan, rather than maximizing the
financial rate of return on the investment. The level of toll charge, therefore, was set on the low side with
low annual growth increases (15 percent increase every five years or an average increase of 2.8 percent per
year). Combined with the project cost overrun and low profit margin, this policy led to an estimated
financial rate of return for the total investment of about 0.4% (in the SAR, there was no financial
evaluation).
-6 -



4.4.3 Non-revenue Earning Entity. Most of roads under NWR and RIP are toll free. The evaluation of
the fiscal impact focused on the risks of insufficient funds for future operating expenses on the project
roads. It shows that the fmancial risks of not having the revenue for supporting road maintenance would be
minimal, as the expenditures on these activities constitute only a small fraction of HPCD's fund flow.
Based on the record, the sum of the total maintenance expenditure of NWR and RIP is less than 1.3% of
the total maintenance expenditure of HPCD during the 9th Five Year Plan. These low financing ratios
indicate that the project presents a modest financial risk regarding availability of counterpart fund for the
future maintenance of the project components.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial institutional development impact, as noted above. The provincial
institutions involved with implementation of the project have gained significant hands-on capabilities by
handling such a complex project as ZLE from design to construction related problems such as land
acquisition, resettlement and environmental monitoring. The skills acquired under the expressway
component using the FIDIC contractual approach were directly applied in the construction of the
govemment-funded dual carriage-way. Measures taken to strengthen the five institutions within BPCD
were effective. The trucking study provided methodological approaches and a joint local/foreign
management model which were useful in future studies.
S. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Growth of the local market. The main factor outside the control of govemrnent or implementing agency
affecting project implementation and outcome was the rapid change in growth of the local market. Traffic
grew faster than anticipated requiring changes in the design of the ZLE from single to dual carriage-way to
accommodate the growing traffic. The traffic diversion due to changes in railway operation policies was
also a factor in the design change to a four-lane facility.
Extemal economic condition. Changes in exchange rates during the implementation period (from 5.45
RMB/$ in 1992 to 8.30 in 2000), and in particular the sharp devaluation of the Renminbi in January 1994,
had an adverse effect on the contractors' performance. Difficult negotiations ensued to compensate for
increases in costs of material and labor.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Department reorganization. HPCD reorganization in 1996/97, and the insufficient staffing of the Foreign
Capital Utilization Office which was responsible for managing the project, led to temporary weaknesses in
project management. This was one of the reasons for delays in the supply and installation of the EMS
component warranting an extension of the loan closing date.
Traffic overloading There are signs of premature wear on the pavement surface of the expressway,
especially on the right lane for slow traffic. This problem has been traced to a large extent to overloading, a
serious issue in this corridor because of the heavy coal haulage between Shaanxi, Henan, and Jiangsu
Provinces. All three provinces are tackling this difficult issue separately, but a joint strategy could be more
effective.
-7 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in bid processing. The bids for the EMS works were opened in May 1996. Contract was to be
signed by November 1996 and the works substantially completed by June 1998. But in actual fact, the
contract was signed in January 1998 or about one year and a half later than originally planned. The original
bid documents on the basis of which bids were invited were not written in specification style. Significant
portions of the required electrical technology were either obsolete or inappropriate for the application, and
this became a ground for disagreement. This was attributed to HPCD's lack of experience in this type of
works and the temporary understaffing of the project management office.
Design surveys. Insufficient topographical, geological and geotechnical investigations when designing the
expressway led to substantial increases in some quantities of works (especially earthworks), and to cost
overruns for most contracts on the expressway (para 5.4 below).
5.4 Costs and financing:
As presented in Annex 2a, the total project cost in US dollar equivalent was almost identical to the
appraisal estimate, showing that the physical and price contingencies were overall adequately assessed.
However in local currency terms, the devaluation of the Renminbi led to a total cost increase of about 45%.
Two components suffered substantial cost overruns:
(i)    civil works contracts for the expressway had an overrun of about 15% in US$ terms, mostly due to
adverse geological conditions and some design enhancements; and
(ii)   in the case of the EMS contract for traffic engineering on the expressway, a gross underestimation
of prices and quantities for key inputs occurred, leading to a six-fold increase in the final cost.
The use of loan funds, broken down into ICB, NCB, and other procurement methods, did not differ
significantly from the SAR estimates, as shown in Annex 2b. Regarding project financing, the Bank loan
was used up to 93%, calling for an increased participation of the provincial and central governments
(Annex 2c).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is likely to be sustainable when considering the achievements under each of the components,
and sustainability is enhanced by follow-up projects, as shown below:
(i)    Traffic congestion has been remedied in the Zhengzhou-Luoyang corridor. The gap existing to the
west between Luoyang and the border with Shaanxi Province is being tackled under the Second
Henan Highway Project. Once the latter is completed, the east-west traffic traversing Henan will
be facilitated.
(ii)   The RIP and Northwest Region Roads components have greatly enhanced accessibility throughout
the province. The program is being expanded by focusing more on the poor areas under the RIPA
(Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation) component of the Second Henan Highway Project.
- 8 -



(iii)   Significant transfer of technology to local staff has been achieved and institutional capabilities
have been strengthened. The current restructuring of HPCD will provide further incentives for
efficiency gains.
(iv)   Important recommendations of the Trucking Study have been implemented, and an action plan has
been developed for further implementation, to be monitored under the Third Henan Highway
Project which is expected to become effective in early 2001.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ZLE was opened to traffic in December 1995. The expressway has been operated without traffic
engineering equipment and tolls were collected manually. After complete installation of the E&M systems
in the first semester of 2001, the level of service will be substantially improved in terms of (i) waiting time
at the toll booths, and (ii) incident or accident response time with the use of the emergency telephone and
other traffic surveillance systems along the expressway. More generally, level-of-service type indicators,
similar to the ones used in more developed expressway networks, will be used by the strengthened
Expressway Company to monitor its operation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
At the identification phase, the staff made sure that the project objectives and scope were consistent with
both the government's priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. During project preparation Bank staff
helped the project to benefit from extensive consultations with experts on technical aspects of the project
design. The initial feasibility studies were revised to meet Bank standards. However, they underestimated
the traffic growth potential. As a result, as noted earlier, the single carriage-way design was later changed
to double carriage-way.
Appraisal was focused on what were perceived to be the main project risks: lack of experience of the
implementing agencies with the design and construction of modern highways, international procurement
bidding, related archeological, resettlement and environmental issues. Design standards, particularly with
regard to the interchanges, were reviewed by consultants financed by the Finnish Trust Fund. Advance
contracting and retroactive financing were provided, in particular to allow for an early start of works in the
archaeologically sensitive zone. Attention was also paid to the Province's financial performance relative to
its contributions. However, performance indicators were not developed during the lending phase.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank conducted 12 supervision missions from 1993 to 2000, an average of about 2 missions per year.
A total of 90 staff-weeks were spent on supervision activities. Efficiency gains were achieved by Bank
missions dealing with several projects during each stay. Continuity of staffing on the project was generally
achieved, but the skill mix was limited. Resettlement and environment staff provided specialized reviews
during the critical phases of the project, but could have been used more widely. As available resources
from the field office increased, they were tapped accordingly.
Given that the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway component was the first of its kind in the Henan province,
the Bank team paid special attention to minimizing the imnplementation risks. Supervisors and contractors
were provided with timely advice on working properly under the FIDIC conditions of contract. In
-9-



particular the roles of the employer, the "engineer", and the contractors had to be clarified several times
over, as well as the relationships between local and foreign supervision teams which required facilitation
from time to time.
Bank supervision was also effective on other components. In the course of implementation of the rural
roads components, staff facilitated the acceptance of competitive bidding in road works in preference to
force account operations, even for small civil works contracts. Involvement was also substantial in the
Trucking Study, where staff provided useful input.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory, despite the acceptance during appraisal of the
conservative traffic flow forecast for the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway, which was contradicted soon
after during implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower preparation of the project started as early as 1986. Land acquisition and resettlement based
upon the original design of ZLE were carried out early. Recognizing its lack of experience with the
construction of modem highways and with international procurement methods, HPCD was cooperative
with the foreign assistance in charge of the technical design review. As noted above, traffic forecast
underestimated the number of lanes to be constructed.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government shown strong commitment to the satisfactory completion of the project. Compliance with
the loan covenants was generally adequate. Both central and provincial Government staff were supportive
of the institutional reforms proposed under the program. However excessively long time was needed to get
all clearances on the bid documents and then on the evaluation report from the concerned provincial and
central government agencies.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Most of the civil works were packaged in appropriate size and contracted out on time. The supervision of
ZLE was carried out by a joint foreign/local team, which performed relatively well. The Northwest Henan
highways and the Road Improvement Program components were supervised by local teams. However there
was some failure to anticipate the difficulties of procuring major works like the EMS. Procurement delays
led to a two-year extension of the loan closing date, and another six months will be needed to complete
installation of all systems. An interim completion report for this component was prepared, and HPCD will
provide the final completion report in early 2001.
Some difficulties were experienced in 1996/97 with overall project management. The Foreign Capital
Utilization Office, having to deal with several other projects, was less and less responsive to the demands of
this particular project. Project management was rated unsatisfactory for some time. Finally in late 1997
the FCUO was strengthened and performance resumed satisfactorily.
- 10 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrower is considered satisfactory despite the difficulties in completing the
EMS component.
8. Lessons Learned
Proper design of the expressway, including allfacilities. As noted above, substantial cost and time
overruns were encountered because the technical complexity of expressway construction and operation was
underestimated. It is cost-effective to spend more time to refine the engineering design, both of the
expressway and of the EMS component. Then tendering of the EMS works should start at least two years
before the civil works are expected to be completed.
Promotion of interprovincial trade. The Trucking Study was instrumental in identifying the barriers to
long-distance traffic and making recommendations to facilitate long-distance trade. With the development
of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), increased emphasis was put on interprovincial
cooperation, especially at provincial border stations. This lesson was learned, with the Bank initiating the
series of "National Highway Projects" grouping two or three provinces traversed by a long section of the
NTHS. The first National Highway Project involved Henan and Hebei Provinces around the north-south
section of the NTHS linking Beijing to Guangdong.
Relevance of Local Roads Improvement Programs. Both the Northwest Henan Roads and the RIP
components have shown the significant benefits achieved under rural roads programs, as well as the high
appreciation and demand from local people for this type of Bank involvement. This lesson was learned in
the follow-up project with the Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA) component, which has
confirmed the effectiveness of this type of action to target poverty.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
ZHENGZHOU-LUOYANG EXPRESSWAY PROJECT ICR (SUMMARY)
ZHENGZHOU-LUOYANG EXPRESSWAY PROJECT ICR (SUMMARY)
A. Zhengzhou - Luoyang Expressway: Civil Works Completion Report Outline
1.    Zhengzhou - Luoyang Expressway (ZLE) is the first expressway financed by the World Bank in
Henan Province and it is located in the loessial belt lying north to the Longhai Railway and south to the
Yellow River. The expressway starts from the east to the west, linking the capital Zhengzhou with the
ancient capital Luoyang and it is the busiest section of the Lianyungang Port to Hurguss Expressway
which is one of the major trunk highways constituting "the Double Cross" in the highway system of China.
ZLE passes through Xinyang, Gongyi, Yanshi and Mengjin and links up with national highways 107 and
108, becoming the communication link with the north and the south, the east and the west parts of China.
2.    The first phase (the northem carriageway) of ZLE is the works financed by the Bank, including
Contract No. 10 which was commenced on May 1, 1992, earlier than other contracts, and which was
- 11 -



implemented by a contractor (No. 15 Engineering Bureau of MOR) through LNCB though it could have
been undertaken by force account as agreed by the Bank. The works of Contracts No. 6 through 9 were
actually commenced from January 1, 1993 and completed by December 1995 by the successful contractors
selected through ICB, namely No. 1 Engineering Bureau of China National Building Construction Corp.,
Henan Provincial Transport and Highway Engineering Bureau, No. 15 Engineering Bureau of MOR, and
No. 1 Highway Engineering Corp. of MOC.
3.    The second phase (the southem carriageway) of ZLE was financed with domestic funds and the
works were commenced from September 1994 and completed by June 1996. In the early beginning of
1995, the provincial government decided that the second phase works shall be completed simultaneously
with the first phase works by December 1995. The second phase works under Contracts No. 6 7, 9 and 10
were undertaken by the same contractors who undertook the first phase works except for the second phase
works included under Contract No. 8 which were divided into six contracts procured by NCB.
4.    ZLE stretches for a distance of 120.5 km and as the alignment runs through flat region, slightly
rolling region and mountainous region, driving speed and subgrade width were designed by adoption of
two standards for the flat areas and the mountainous areas, respectively. ZLE is a dual direction four-lane
highway with all access under control and equipped with sound traffic safety, service and operation
facilities as well as tolling system. Design standards are as follows:
a)    Calculated driving speeds: 120 km/h for flat areas; and 100 km/ h for mountainous and
hilly areas.
b)    Width of subgrade: 26 m-wide subgrade for flat areas, including a 3 m-wide median,
driving lanes and curb belts of 2 x 8.75m in width, hardened shoulders of 2 x 2 m in
width, and earthen shoulders of 2 x 0.75m in width; and 24.5 m-wide subgrade for hilly
and mountainous areas, including a median of 2 m in width, driving lanes and curb belts of
2 x 8.5 m in width, hardened shoulders of 2 x 2 m in width and earthen shoulders of 2 x
0.75m in width.
B. Construction and Supervision of Buildings along Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway
5.    The construction projects of buildings along Zhengzhou-Luoyang expressway include
administration (bureau), toll gate, maintenance work area and service area. 16 contracts was started
successively. Among them, contracts No. 1 to No. 4 are of projects using world bank loans and the others
are using domestic capital. In accordance with the requirement of FIDIC and based on the contractual
agreements, design drawings and construction codes, all-weather supervision is conducted to the project on
every side and the quality, progress and investment of the project are well controlled. In particular, the
result is remarkable in quality control. Appraisal and acceptance were performed by the quality
supervision stations of the local , municipal authorities and Communications Bureau. Except that Contract
No. 8 was assessed to be qualified, all the other contracts reached the standard of excellent projects.
- 12 -



C. Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Survey of Maintenance
6.    In Henan Provincial Expressway Construction and Operation Administration, a maintenance
division was set up, responsible for maintenance management of expressways in the province, including
preparation of yearly maintenance programs, maintenance specifications and maintenance procedures;
programming, supervision and testing and acceptance of heavy maintenance works and some special
maintenance works of the expressways across the province; and inspection and evaluation on the
maintenance activities perforned by the branch offices. The expressway section between ZherlgztlOl 1
and Luoyang is under the management and maintenance of Zhengzhou and Luoyang Branch Offices. There
is a maintenance division and a maintenance depot, looking at expressway repairing and maintenance.
Henan Expressway Maintenance Center, which is still under construction, is located at Xuedian,
Zhengzhou and will be equipped with advanced machines and equipment such as MARINI100 asphalt
mixing plant, ABG-422 pavers, WIRTGEN 200DC milling machines, INGERSOLAND and HAMM
road rollers. The center is expected to be capable of implementing independently expressway specialized
maintenance operations and providing asphalt mnixed materials for repairing and asphalt for joint filling
undertaken by nearby branch offices.
7.    Along the ZLE, there are 40 staff involving in maintenance, the staging is 3km/person. Taking
various measures actively to achieve good maintenance management, as follows:
a)    Giving a full play to the maintenance equipment available
b)    Establishment of an expressway maintenance quality control system
c)    Establishment of the Central Lab
d)    Implementation of the Supervision System for Special Works and Heavy maintenance
e)    Safety
f)    Emphasis on routine maintenance and strengthening inspection
g)    Information Management for In-door Management
h)    Staff training
i)    Systems and Regulations
j)     Study and Research
8.    Experience and Lessons:
a)    It was found, in the implementation of pavement special works, that differential strength
exists between the newly-laid concrete base and the base of the existing pavement and that
the treatment currently made to flexible pavement leading to difficult bonding between
rigid layer and flexible layer in the base of the pavement, which becomes the weak point of
frequent distresses-It is therefore necessary to apply new design, new materials, new
techniques and new workmanship for pavement special works.
b)    It is worthy further research for solutions for treatment to pavement cracking and joints,
especially the cracking in compound type pavement and joints as well as the bonding
between rigid and flexible layers left after pavement special works.
c)    It is worthy attention to how to further give full plays to the maintenance equipment
available, how to raise to the maximum degree the application rate of the machines and
equipment and to open extemal market by using the heavy-duty equipment in order to
create economic benefits.
- 13-



d)    Most of the distresses occurred in the expressway pavements, subgrades, bridges and
culverts in Henan have direct or indirect connection with moisture, and therefore, more
attention to expressway drainage systems should be given by the research and design
departments.
e)    In view that the Highway Maintenance Specifications were prepared for ordinary roads
and are not quite suit to the maintenance of expressways, it is recommended that an
expressway maintenance specifications be prepared and publicized.
D. Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Traffic Engineering Status
9.    Up to the end of August 2000, the ZLE traffic project progress is 84.68%. In June and July 2000,
PD twice pointed out shortcoming in installation according to the contract requirement, and asked the
Contractor finish preparation before machine complement. PD also reported to HPCD in term of "first
test" in the Contract, and following into three-month test operation if the "first test" can be approved.
According to the progress, the "first test" will be gone through in the middle of Sept. 2000, and test
operation phases in Oct. 2000, and examination and acceptation phases in end of Dec. 2000 if everything
is all right.
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement Management
10.   Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway passes through 7 counties 21 townships and 117 villages of
Zhengzhou and Luoyang. A total amount of 799.21 hectare land has been acquired for this Project, and it
resettles 1288 households (5660 people), and the total project resettlement investment amounts to
121.1132 million yuan. Physical index investigation was started in early 1991, and compensation had
fully dispersed to individuals by June 1992. Relocation of ground attachments was completed in October
1992, and at the beginning of 1993, compensation for houses was fully disbursed and relocation of houses
started. By May 1994, all resettlers had finished house building and moved into their new houses.
11.   The administration of resettlement implementation of this Project is organized by the High-Grade
Highway Construction Headquarters of Henan Provincial Bureau of Communication, whose name has
been changed to Henan Provincial Expressway Development Co., Ltd., while the construction
headquarters at Zhengzhou City and Luoyang City take charge of implementation.
F. Environmental Management
12.   The construction unit of the project (i.e. the Headquarters for Advanced Highway Construction of
Henan Province) seriously carried out the rules and regulations for the appraisal of the influence on the
environment during the whole process of feasibility study, design, construction and trial operation. The
construction unit also basically implemented the measures for environmental protection according to the
requirements in the official, written reply given by the National Environmental Protection Bureau to the
report on the appraisal of the influence on the environment and it has realized the goal of having the
facilities of environmental protection and the project itself designed, constructed and put into operation at
the same time.
- 14 -



13.   In April 2000, the check and acceptance meeting for the completion of the task of environmental
protection for the project was presided over by the National Environmental Protection Bureau. It was
decided that the construction of the project was basically up to the standards for check and acceptance, the
check and acceptance of the facilities of environmental protection was approved and the demands for
further improvement of the remaining problems were made.
G. Financial Management and Disbursements under Henan Highway Project
14.   Financial Management. One level calculation system was applicable to financial management,
financial division in the Authority was in charge of calculating cost and expenditure, the cost and
expenditures by the corresponding sub-authorities were internally packed by themselves, and these
financial sheets were absent from the current summaries, and also they function the additional information
to the whole expenses of the project. Besides for 616.96 million RMB yuan financed by the Bank
(equivalent to 74.52 million USD), 316 million RMB yuan aided by MOC and 483.2 million RMB yuan
collected within the province had been spent on the north range implementation of ZLE.
15.   Up to now, 1.5 billion RMB yuan had been completed for performing the north range of ZLE,
which include 117.13 million RMB yuan for house engineering, 102.07 RMB yuan for land fee, 1090.95
million RMB yuan for highway construction and 55.88 million RMB yuan for equipment and plant
procurement, however, completion certificate approval is not addressed for ZLE. And in addition, to
comply with the requirement from the upper level, assets of ZLE, appraised and confirmed by legal
procedure, and valued by the date of April 30, 2000, has been incorporated into the newly reorganized
Henan Expressway Development Co., Ltd., and later, the asset management and calculation of the
expressway will abide by the codes specified in Financial Managemnent Methods for Expressway Company
and Accounting Regulations for Highway Operation Enterprises released by the Ministry of Finance
(hereinafter called "MOF"). In the whole period of the project implementation, its financial management
and accounting calculation had successfully passed the audit procedure by qualified audit department in
every fiscal year, such management and calculation comply with the financial and accounting
specifications from both Chinese side and the Bank.
16.   Accounting withdrawal and its submittal proceeded in a strictly manner as specified in the loan
agreement for the requested items and their proportion, up to date, 74.52 million USD had been
withdrawn, of this figure, 65.8 million USD flown toward civil engineering, 6.66 million USD toward
commodities and the rest 2.06 million USD toward consulting service and training center. The specifically
accounting number was opened in Henan Provincial Financial Department (hereinafter called "HPFD"),
expenditure numbers were opened in HPCD and the Authority, respectively. In the later stage, due to the
policy variation, the number in the Authority could not undertake payment obligation any longer, payrnent
of foreign currency was directly finished by the accounting number of HPCD.
17.   As to the procedure of accounting withdrawal and its submittal, according to the payment amount
required by the engineer in the issued measurement and payment certificate, the Authority completed the
application forns on the base of certificate types and requirements, and submitted them to HPCD, who
then transferred and delivered these fonns to HPFD, HPFD, discovering no faults after checking, would
distribute the corresponding amounts to HPCD from the specifically accounting number, and HPCD paid
the amounts to the Authority.
18.   Operation Income and Expenditure Balance. During its construction, the Authority regarded KLE
as one integrity for its financial management and accounting calculation, the Bank-supported project was
restrained to the north range of ZLE, and more, in the course of project implementation, some items such
- 15 -



as traffic engineering and house works cannot be separated artificially between the south and the north
ranges, if only seen from the sum distribution, much large amounts occurred to the north range of ZLE, as
well, after completion of the whole KLE, its roadway asset was overall transferred to the then-incorporated
Expressway Construction Management Bureau of HPCD, (hereinafter called "the Bureau"), even for
operation stage, both north and south ranges have not been parted with each other.
19.   During its construction period, ZLE was administrated and calculated as one of component of
KLE; and with its entrance of operation phase, three sub-bureaus were established along the line in
Kaifeng, Zhengzhou and Luoyang cities for their divided sections' management of the expressway,
respectively, dated by August 31, 2000, 883.06 million RMB yuan had been recouped from the entire
KLE, of the amount, 501.02 million RMFB yuan from both ranges of ZLE, more details are like this, 66.75
million RMB yuan for 1996, 81.13 million RMB yuan for 1997, 94.69 rnillion RMB yuan in 1998,
157.56 million RMB yuan in 1999 and 100.89 million RMB yuan by the end of August of the current
fiscal year. The expenditures for operation management mainly consist of operation taxes and their
addition, management fees (including staff wages, highway admninistration cost, levy administration fee,
civilization construction expense), maintenance cost on expressway and its depreciation (calculation &
withdrawal for this item exclusive before restructuring), expense for equipment purchase (specifically
scheduled cost for this item prior to restructuring) and financial expenses.
H. Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Toll Management
20.   The AADT of Zhengluo freeway in 1999 is 12007 Vehicles/day, the peak hourly traffic volume V)
of Zhengluo freeway in one direction is 655 vehicles/hour, about 1032 PCU/hour. The AADT in 1999 is
12007 vehicle/day, is 17.1% more than the AADT in 1998 which is 10256 vehicle/day. The increase ratio
of the traffic volume is 5% higher than the increase ratio 12.1% in 1998. It says that the increasing of the
standard of toll fee has less influence to the traffic in Zhengluo Freeway ,the Zhengluo Freeway has very
higher attraction to the traffic volume. The toll income of Zhengluo Freeway in 1999 is 168,830 thousand
RMBY; it is 70% more than the income in 1998 that is 99,035 thousand RMBY.
1. Trucking Study
21.   As in provinces in China, the trucking industry in Henan Province is struggling to adapt from a
structure that met the needs of the former planned economy to one that must now meet the significantly
different and growing needs of the new socialist market economy. The industry is experiencing
considerable difficulties in trying to come to terms with the nature of the changing environment and the
rapid pace of change. The difficulties include an inappropriate institutional structure, inefficient and
outdated equipment and work practices, poor management, inefficient enterprise structures, inappropriate
fiscal conditions, and a deficient road structure with poor connectivity.
22.   The Terms of Reference defined three basic objectives for the Henan Trucking Study. These were:
*     To describe in detail the present situation and structure of the trucking industry.
*     To identify and assess present problems and constraints which are preventing development
of the Industry.
- 16 -



*     To prepare a series of recommendations which will lead to overall improvement in
efficiency in the industry, and which will provide the basis for meeting the expanding
needs of the market economy, and hence the objectives for economic development.
These objectives were met to the satisfaction of the client, and some recommendations have already been
implemented, while others are under consideration.
J.    Institutional Strengthening/Staff Training Implementation Assessment
23.   Institutional strengthening was ,as a component of Henan Highway Project, to improve and
strengthen the major functions of the road management, scientific research and education departments in
Henan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD). The strengthening covered five agencies: the
planning, survey and design institute of HPCD; Henan Provincial Transport Polytechnic School; Henan
Provincial Transport Vocational School; and the Expressway Construction Management Bureau. The
approaches by which the strengthening was achieved consisted of: (1) provision of some necessary
equipment for the institutions to be strengthened to improve their mechanization and modernization of
construction and management aspects; (2) provision of training courses in China and abroad to the staff on
key or weak posts of the institutions so that skills and they could introduce their learning from the courses
to improve the overall caliber of their colleagues.
24.   Generally the training program under Henan Highway Project was successful thanks to the strong
support and assistance from the World Bank and MOC. An investigation was conducted by issuing and
collecting questionnaires about the effect of the training courses and the finding show that the training
courses brought in good benefits. Through training, some advanced technologies and management skills
were absorbed and introduced from developed countries, substantially raising the career qualification and
technical skills of our engineers and managerial and effectively facilitating the development of the highway
sector in the province.
K. Overall Assessment
25. Through World Bank-financed highway project the FIDIC clause of the conditions of contract have
been widely adopted in Henan Province for highway construction works since this system is very
advantageous and effective; Through the training of personnel, a batch of professionals were trained on
highway maintenance and traffic engineering. These people were well trained, and broadened and made
full use of their knowledge during project irnplementation and they played important roles in their work.
During the project preparation and irnplementation, the Bank staff provided a lot of assistance to the
Implementation Agency. Henan Provincial Government and Henan Provincial Transport Department
would like to express heartfelt thanks to the World Bank for its cooperation and support ,and hope to have
further opportunity to get the Bank's assistance and the chance for even better cooperation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator                  Proicted in SAR I/     Actual/Latest Estimate
1992    1995    1999   1992   1995    1999
A. Gross Output Value of Agriculture and
Industry (GOVAI) (in RMB million)
1. GOVAI along ZLE corridor           45.8   114.1  155.1   45.9  114.3   155.5
2. GOVAI in counties affected by Local   11.9    17.8   54.0   12.0   17.9    54.4
Roads Programs
B. Average Daily Traffic (vehicles/day)
1. On ZLE                                     3,993   5,928          8,434   12,097
2. On existing Road 310               3,329   3,976   7,008   4,883   5,599   7,452
C. Traffic closure on Local Roads (days)   23       19      9      20      15       3
Output Indicators:
Indicator                   Proiected in SAR 1/    Actual/Latest Estimate
Expressway Construction                         120.0 km                 120.0 km
Local Roads in Northwest Henan                  292.0 km                292.0 km
Road Improvement Program                        740.0 km                491.5 km
Number of Staff Trained (staff-months)       360.0 (366.6 km)        357.0 (367.0 kmn)
I/ Indicators were not explicitly specified at appraisal and were retrofitted at a later stage of project
implementation.
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a-1. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost by Component     Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate       Appraisal
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway             119.10           137.17           115%
E&M works on ZLE                           1.83             11.12          608%
Local Roads in Northwest Henan            42.08            40.26            96%
Road Improvement Program                  90.76            59.90            66%
Subtotal                                253.77           248.45            98%
Equipment                                 14.49             13.08           90%
Institutional strengthening and studies    6.55              5.92           90%
Land Acquisition and Resettlement         25.89            28.76           111%
Total                                   300.70           296.21            99%
Annex 2a-2. Project Cost by Component (in RMB million)
Project Cost by Component     Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate        Appraisal
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway       |     _648.97         1,097.33           169%
E&M works on ZLE                          10.03   _        91.51           912%
Local Roads in Northwest Henan           229.30           322.08           140%
Road Improvement Program                 494.55           479.20            97%
Subtotal                              1,382.85         1,990.12           144%
Equipment                                 78.96            104.64           133%
Institutional strengthening and studies   35.69            47.36           133%
Land Acquisition and Resettlement        141.00           230.04            163%
Total                                 1,638.50         2,372.16           145%
- 19 -



Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
ExDenditur            Procurement Method                       Procurement Method
e Categories           AiDraisal Estimate                      Actua/Latat Estimate
ICB    NCB   Others   NBF    Total    ICB         NCB   Others   NBF    Total
Works      103.23   117.81   32.73           253.77   111.10   105.26   32.07  ___   248.45
Goods        8.46            6.03             14.49    8.02             5.08           13.08
Service                      6.55              6.55                     5.92            5.92
Others           _                   25.89    25.89         _                  28.76   28.76
Total     111.69   117.81   45.31   25.89   300.70   119.12  105.26   43.07   28.76  296.21
Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
raisal Estimate         Actua /Latest Estimate    Perce     of A oraisal
Component   Bank   Govt.   Cofin-   Bank   Govt.   Cofm-   Bank   Govt.  Cofin-
ancier                    ancier    %        %      ancier
ZLE            57.24    25.16    36.70    59.69   39.48    39.50    104%    157%    108%
E&M works    0.88        0.95     0.00      6.91    4.21     0.00    785%   443%
Northwest      13.48    28.60     0.00     12.72   27.54     0.00     94%      96%
Roads        iI_
RIP            32.28    58.48     0.00     19.50   40.40     0.00     60%      69%
Subtotal                                        __
Equipment      12.80     1.69     0.00     10.87    2.21     0.00     85%    131%
Institutional   3.32     3.23     0.00      2.31    3.61     0.00     70%    112%
strengthening
LAR             0.00    25.89     0.00      0.00   28.76     0.00             111%
Total      |120.00   144.00    36.70   112.00  146.21    39.50       93%    102%    108%
The column under "Cofinancier" represents the Central Government while the Provincial Government is the
principal project owner.
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1.    The economic re-evaluation of the project covers the following three components:
(a)    Construction of the 120 km Zhengzhou- Luoyang Expressway (ZLE);
(b)    The 11 roads in the northwest region (NWR) of Henan province. This includes
rehabilitation and improvement of 5 provincial roads (totaling 180.2 kin) and the
upgrading of 6 rural roads (totaling 111.5 km); and
(c)    A province- wide road improvement program (RIP) comprising the rehabilitation and
improvement of provincial, prefecture and rural roads.
2.    The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summarized as follows:
(a)    capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2000 prices
and are included in the cost stream;
(b)   the benefits stream, also reflected in December 2000 prices, were included, and consist of
savings in vehicle operating costs, reduced traffic congestion on existing routes, and
enhanced road safety; and
(c)    a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all
components was from 1992 to 1998, depending on the construction phases.
3.     During project implementation, some project components under RIP have been modified. Some of
the roads have been replaced with new roads and the scope of RIP has also changed. The economic
analysis of these new components were included in the ICR.
4.     The re-evaluation report is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of ZLE;
Part II is the economic evaluation of NWR and RIP; Part III is the overall economic evaluation of the
project, including probabilistic risk analysis, and; Part IV is the financial evaluation of the project. This
document is available in the Project ICR File (see Annex 7).
5.     This annex provides summary tables on the economic re-evaluation of ZLE, the two Local Roads
Programs, and the project as a whole.
- 21 -



A. ZHENGZHOU - LUOYANG EXPRESSWAY (ZLE)
Economic Cost (Y million), EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million)
The SAR                The ICR
Cost                1,056.74 /_a             2,076.51
EIRR                    28.9                   25.1
NPV                 1,742.36 /_a             3,457.8
La: Updated to 2000 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.52
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %) NPV(12%, Ybillion)
VOC savings reduced by 15%                23.0              2.82
Passenger time savings reduced to zero    24.4               3.25
Congestion savings reduced to zero        24.2               3.12
Total benefits reduced by 15%             22.8               2.69
B. NORTHWEST REGION ROADS (NWR) AND ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (RIP)
NWR AND RIP PROJECT COST COMPARISION (YUAN MILLION)
Estimate (Yuan million)         Actual (Yuan million)
Dec. 1991 prices   Dec. 2000 prices  Financial  Dec. 2000 prices   (B)/(A)
Economic        Economic (A)   (Current)   Economic (B)    (in %)
NWR            406.35             617.11       322.16        335.96         54.4
RIP            736.46           1,116.95       460.63        446.57         40.0
Total       1,142.81           1,734.06 La    782.79       782.53         45.1
La: Updated to 2000 constant prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.52
EIRR AND NPV OF THE NWR AND THE RIP
EIRR (in %)           NPV (12%, Yuan million)
The SAR      The ICR      The SAR /a        The ICR
NWR            20.3 - 30.5     24.4          396.51           420.7
RIP               n.a..        59.2           31.43         2,275.0
Total         n.a.         42.9          427.94         2,695.7
La: Updated to 2000 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.52.
C. THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million) Sunmmary
The SAR                    The ICR
EIRR          NPV           EIRR       NPV
The expressway           28.9        1,742.36        25.1     3,457.8
NWR                   20.3 - 30.5     427.94         24.4       420.7
RIP                      --            --            59.2     2,275.0
Total Project         28.0        2,170.3         29.6     6,153.5
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Ecotomists. I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
MonthlYear    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
June, 1989                     I   EC
September, 1989                2   EC, TS
February, 1991                 1   EC
April 1991                     3   EC, TS, HE
Appraisal/Negotiation
November, 1991                 5   ES, OA, RS, HE, TS
March, 1992                    5   EC, ES, OA, 2 TS
August 1992                    2   TS, HE
November 1992                  2   EC,TS
Supervision
September, 1993                2   EC, HE                                HS                 HS
April 1994                      6  TE/P, HE, 2 RS, ES, D/FS               S                 HS
August 1994                     2   TE/P, HE                              S                 HS
October 1994                    3  TE/P, TIS, HE                          S                 HS
June 1995                      2  TE/P,HE                                 S                 HS
November 1995                   4  TE/P,HE, OA                            S                  S
June 1996                      3  TE/P, HE, OA                            S                  S
July 1997                      2   TE/P, OA                               S
July 1998                       3  3 HE                                   S                  S
April 1999                      3   3 HE                                  S                  S
October 1999                    1  HE                                     S                  S
January 2000                    3  HE, RS, D/lS                           S                  S
ICR
June 2000                      3   HE, RS, ES                             S                  S
EC=Economist; TS=Transport Specialist; HE=Highway Engineer; ES=Enviromnental Specialist; OA=Operational Analyst;
RS=Resettlement Specialist; TE/P Transport Engineer/Procurement; T/lS=Training/Institutional Strengthening;
D/FS=Disbursement/Financial Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 100                          319
Appraisal/Negotiation                       80                          247
Supervision                                 89                          234
ICR                                         10                           30
Total                                      279                          830
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                         O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                               O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Z Financial                              O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
0 Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Resettlement
J Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
ZOther (Please specify)                  O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Poverty Reduction
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performnance                                 Rating
 Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHS OS   Ou   OHU
1 Overall                                             OHS *S  O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
F Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  0 U   O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, China Henan Highway Project, October 19, 1992.
World Bank, Henan Highway Project Economic and Financial Re-evaluation, October 2000.
HPCD, Project Data for Henan Highway Project ICR (2 volumes), October 2000.
Yellow River Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation Co. Ltd. Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Project,
Henan Province, Resettlement Completion Report, September 2000.
Henan Provincial Communications Department Expressway Construction Administration Bureau,
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Environmental Completion Report, August 2000.
Henan Provincial Highway Administration Bureau, Completion Report on Road Improvement Program
and Roads in Northwest Henan, September 2000.
Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Construction Supervision Department, Post-evaluation on
Consultants Perforrnance in the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway, September 2000.
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Management Department, Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway Traffic
Engineering Completion Report, August 2000.
Louis Berger International, Inc. Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway construction Completion Report On
Provision of Consulting Services for supervision of civil Works Contracts, June 1996.
- 26 -



lBRD 23486
110'  K                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~112'                               114'     HEB I                                        1                                                      iE
li0>   9                 112:                                      \,         IiX    ~~~~~~~~~~H  E  B  E  I      ,                 -1>18  
Ta Bei;ing                                                                                          CHINA
L>_ +, g5>To8eiimg r \ HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
36'
36'                            S                                                Shenoita.' - K.            f.                                   's"'                                              ZHENOZHOU - LUOYANO   EXPRESSWAY
S  H  A   N   X   I                                                                                                                                      G~~~rj9c0tei  ~'NWIPRPSE   ROET
N S  H  A   N  X I  5---ianpin                                       -.                          -  U   0   ''    '''-   XNORTHWEST HENAN PROVINCIAL ROADS
...........   NORTHWEST HENAN RURAL ROADS
a56 n xia..                                                                      EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
tDaanhunU ,,   xi..5                                                                           ... MAIN 8TH 5-YEAR PLAN ROADS
/                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~T. Chongzhi  ,-H.i Xin  S ,-"',.        *'     
See 18RD) 23487 h   fetil  r ..... /.Xn  4;g'- ..............,i
NATIONAL ROADS                 RIEVERS
/C_ .O__'    i  Lk  2    P *   .   .- -  Here0  SHANDONG                                -.NTPROVINCIAL ROADS                  RIVER PORTS
RJRAL ROADS             -      PROVINCE
RAILROADS                       BOUNDARIES
-                 1>,PTa.lny   '-A ,---,~ sas         " M  N.                                                              EPOTS        t        ----- ITENT!PN
BOUNDARIES
SHAA~~,NXI n'                         J                LU,.0                                                             f/  .,   AN        G               S 
t t j7 \ r . . ,, Dueshon - tS ~i - 7 EtNGJA
.sS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnln    'Shan0aii\                                                                                                                                      3i[ 
ON HKU B E I                         . t   f  o  0  |  *e- - . W6;-'.J6        A NG S
19'aS'an          uahang                                                                                                                            rUon_o    JIANGS U
MONGWA~~
J~~~~~hena.af ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~     ~      l .
Siping  *t         I                                                                                                                          Kr\~~~~~~
PangAnng    ~ ~ ~~~~Shongaa,'kl xi.,' Aj~                                                                                                                    
32- ~ ~     ~    USI 
-32-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< 
I -  ZRumadiaa      -7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rjJn~~~~\P~~~~~EP~~~                          A   N  H  U  I                              CT    /              1~~~~~~~~~i
2,5    50  75  100 ~    ~        ~      ~        x         0N
Look.kau    - -'"*" '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W-1
N                                                       INIugann           f                                                                              5~~~~~~~>AaAa116
2-                                                                                                                                                                                             E ~~~~~~~o'&knaenilI>nnaL  nIa






E%RD 23AB7
SHA tX                                                                                     T. \tCh"N                       Xinxiang   TN Any-
iiaozuo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~uoi
QCh cngyuo n
/                                                                                                                YX  X    g  ,--    ?   -Jv  //  f XUanyOng  Fengqiu
(             K                                                                                                           I /                                           C O T R C   SE C TIO NS_- L    /<  
E  t  | L eDg~~~~~.n xian v_-  >
/ , ~           ~            ~ S/- \ \\\                                                                                          XHNANON  ~ -                                   -  ACGHEAS ROADS         T 
<~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                                                ZHOU   / TZEGHO  UYNGEPESA
t |  To richuan   \   \    |                        | oMixi<:lt,,                                                                          PROPOSEDGHWA   PROJECI
, t         ISHANO ONG > - . r .) : * tS 1 5 rooHEnGa                                                            _O  EXPRESSWAYUNDERCONSTRUCTON
J~~~~~~~~~,N                                                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATIONSL ROADS
soW    Ir'             _                >            ,       IUONO_`                                                                                                       PROVINCIAL ROADS
"~~~~~ ~~~~~iUU~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~   1~~~                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
94       \J<ANGS                                                                                                                                 -@  ^   f   ( t   \   j   # {tb HES3C,,,_, ''E  AIRPORTS
HEru,~~~~~~~~~~~NJ  N  (     'DODAP                                                                                     -      E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIDGES
FD~~~~~~F ~~0                                   8        I       24       32       AO                               RIVERS
5   1    |    Luoh)   %.   r   alNGllAI  AEit i 4/i t_(spN v,,x,,, < w Mill2METE-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ANNUL  "~~~~~~V~~'-'~~~~ '2~~~nom~~~,                          RF~~IC)METERS
K, )   6';Gng  (i fJ-<ANHUI 4                                                                                                                                                   fNrERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
S >                        .              tf                              DIEOIRtLE'S '  f ' X SS .  Fh N, _  112' .e , 2 IHAStAl8G 2ES - (   '   Q A A , 4 f   :      ,           N    l     L     !    f    f    l N UE JJUNE19P2



