/ ~    ~    ) /\       ...... /  (  / 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MI ( POAlF I CI]Fv CO'tPY
hepcirt No. :1 0653-CHA    Type: ( CAR)
Ti tl r,:  HENAN HIGHWAY PRO,TJFCT                       Report No. 10683-C1A
Aithor: LEMVY   H
Fxt.. :84021 hFocrri:A7 099 Dept. : A.2IP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
OCTOBER 19, 1992
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1992)
Currency name  -  Renminbi
Currency unit  -  Yuan (Y) - 100 Fen
$1.00          m Y 5.45
$0.18          -  Y 1.0
$1.0 million   -  Y 5.450 million
$183,486       =  Y 1.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     -       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                -       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)             5       10.76 square feat (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (1m2)        -       0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) - 0.L1 (km2)    -        2.47 acres (ac) - 15 mu
I mu                            -       666.7 sq m - 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 -       2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (m ton)                    2,204 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
6th FYP -  Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85)
7th FYP -  Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90)
8th FYP -  Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)
EA       -  Environmental Assessment
EAP      -  Environmental Action Plan
EIRR     -  Economic Internal Rate of Return
FINNRA  -  Finnish National Road Administration
FYRR     -  First Year Rate of Return
GOVAI    -  Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HAB      -  Highway Administration Bureau
HGHCA    -  High-Grade Highway Construction Authority
HPCD     -  Henan Provincial Communication Department
HPDI     -  Highway Planning and Design Institute
HPEPB    -  Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
HPEPEC  -  Henan Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission
HPEPRI   -  Henan Provincial Env:ronmental Protection Research Institute
HSRI     -  Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOC      -  Ministry of Communications
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
NPV      -  Net Present Value
PMS      -  Pavement Management System
PRC      -  People's Republir. of China
PTD      -  Provincial Transport Department
RAP      -  Resettlement Action Plan
RDB      -  Road Data Bank
RDP      -  Road Development Program
RIP      -  Road Improvement Program
SAA      -  State Audit Administration
SPC      -  State Planning Commission
TCU      -  Technical Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Communications
vpd      -  Vehicles per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BREAN tlGlWAY PROJECT
Loan and Pro1eet Summarv
AMU=owers             People's Republic of China
Beneficl=ar s         Henan Province
$120 million equivalent
Zima'                 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Pro ect Ob1ectilves    The project objectives are to:  (a) Improve Henan's road
network, with a particular focus on relieving congestion
on the heavily trafficked east-west corridor, linking
Renan end other provinces with the new port of Lianyun
Gang; rehabilitating and expanding the provincial net-
work, whose traffic is rising significantly throughout;
end improving provincial and rural roads; (b) strengthen
highway sector agencies, mainly in the areas of invest-
ment planning, construction end maintenance management,
and environment; and (c) making recomendations for
Improving the efficiency of road freight transport ser-
vices, with a particular emphasis on enhancing competi-
tion and facilitating entry by collective and small
private operators.
Prolect Descriutions  The project consists ofs  (a) civil works comprising
construction of a 120-km, two-lane axpresaway between
Zhengzhou and Luoyang; rehabilitation and improvement in
northwest Henan of five provincial roads (total of
180 km) and six rural roads (total of 112 km) mainly
located in poor areas; and a road improvement program
for rehabilitating and upgrading provincial and rural
roads (total of about 740 km) throughout the province;
(b) equipment for highway maintenance and operations,
Including environmental monitorings and (c) an institu-
tional strengthening and reform component, which will:
provide equipment and training to five key agencies of
Henanos Communications Department; offer a comprehensive
training program for highway personnel at all levels;
and study trucking services in the Province and ways to
Improve its efficiency.
Pro1get lanefits:     Reductions in vehicle operating costs, travel time and
accidents will be the main benefits of the road invest-
ments. In addition, the expressway will generate sub-
stantial benefits to the traffic remaining on the exiet-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
4 road, which includes a large proportion of normotor-
ized vehicles, in the form of reduced congestion and
decrease in the aseident rate. Benefits from the rural
roads will otem from the provision of all-weather,
motorized accee~' for many poor areas to and from markets
and social services.
Risks:                Henan Highways Department lacks experience with the
construction of modern highways, and with international
procurement methods. This poses a risk of delay in
completing the expressway. In line with findings of
ongoing Bank-financed highway projects, the following
actions are being taken to minimize these risks:
(a) detailed review of design with assistance of inter-
national consultants; (b) tightening of the prequalifi-
cation process for contractors; and (c) strengthening of
project supervision arrangements and training of local
staff. An additional risk of delay stems from an arche-
ological zone which the exprossway traverses, and the
related engineering uncertainties. To address this
situation, Henan authorities conducted detailed surveys,
including over one million borings, so as to minimize
chances that during construction new archeological finds
could be encountered and to prevent damage to cultural
property. In addition., works in this zone have been
started ahead of the other sections to provide an addi-
tional time margin.



Estimated Coat:s                                          Local  Foreian   Total
~~~~- ($ million) -----
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway      49.0      49.0      98.0
Provincial and rural roads
in northwest Renan              22.4      11.4      33.8
Road Improvement Program           45.7     27.6      73.3
Subtotal                    117.1    88.0       205.1
Supervision of con-truction         2.3      1.7       4.0
Equipment                           1.3     10.2      11.5
Institutional strengthening        0.3       1.8       2.1
Training                            0.1      0.7       0.8
Trucking Study                      0.3      0.2       0.5
Total base cost             121.3    102.6      223.9
Physical contingencies             11.9      9.0      20.9
Price contingencies               21.6       8.5      30.0
Land acquisition & resettlement  25.9        0.0      25.9
Total vroiect cost L        180.7    120.0      300.7
Proiect Financing
Provincial government             144.0      -       144.0
Central government                 36.7      -        36.7
IBRD                                -      120.0     120.0
Total financina required   180.7    120.0       300.7
gEtimated Disbursements:
Bank PY                1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
°---------   ($ million) -------
Annual                   12    26    32    26    18      6
Cumulative               12    38    70    96   114   120
Economic Rate of
Return:              28 percent on components comprising 71 percent of total
project costs
Xmas                   IBRD Nos. 24225, 23486 and 23487
jj Excluding taxes and duties.



CHIN
RERAN RIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Conten4.
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary   .... . . . . . . . . . . .  .        i
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   . ....... ..... *... .                    1
A. Introduction-  .. .. .*  . ...    . .. ...  .      * a * * * *   1
1Be Tr-ffic   ..... , ................... a1     
C. Investment   . . . . .                                       2
D. Transport Issues and Objectives                .      .      3
E. Bank Group Participation in the Transport Sector             5
F. The Highway Subsector  ..........a           .....           8
The National Highway Network and its Utilization        8
Highway Administration, Planning and Finance           10
The Bank's Experience and Strategy in Highways         12
II.   BREAN POVINCE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
A. Economic Background                         .               14
B. The Transport System                                        14
C* Traffic                  .        .     .    .              16
D. The TruckingIndustry  . . .......d.                         17
E. Highway Administration   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      i8
F. Planning, Budgeting and Financing  . . a.  . . . o  . .     19
0. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance  . o . . . .      20
H. Staff Training   . . .........* .....                       22
I. Highway Development in the Eighth FYP   .      r . .  . * *  22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February/March
1992. Xembers of the appraisal team included Rernan Levy (Mission Leader),
Hatim Hajj (Transport Specialiat), Hank Yen (Research Analyst), William Lane
(Environmental Specialist), Tariq Hassan (Lawyer), Ruwani Jayewardene
(Resettlement Specialist, Consultant), Robert Hallenborg (Road Transport
Spocialist, Consultant) and Alan Ross (Highway Safety Specialist, Consultant).
Mr. Asif FaiP (Highways Adviser) participated in the preappraslal and
identification missions. Peer reviewers were Paul Cadario (EA2CO), Pedro
Geraldes (EDINU) and Cesar Queiroz (AP4IN). The Division Chief is Mr. Daud
Abmad and the Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki.



ZPix2No.
II.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     24
A.  Project Formulation and Preparation  . . . . . . . . .    24
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement      24
C.  Project Scope  . . . . . . a . . . . . . .. . . . . .     25
D.  Environmental Assessment   . . . . . . . .  . .. . ..a    34
E.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement  . . . . . . . . . .    35
F.  Cost Estimate.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       37
G.  Financing .. .. .. . . . .  . . . .. . . ... . .   . . .  38
H.  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     39
I* Procurement  . .. a. .. .a.  . . ....  . . . . . . .. . .  42
J.  Disburseents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      44
L.  Project Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring  . . . .    45
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUA  .ON   ..................                      46
A. Objective.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      46
B.  Benefits and Beneficiaries    . . . . . . . . . . . .     46
C.  Economic Analysis  . . . .                                46
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway   . . . . . . . . . .    47
Provincial and Rural Roads in Northwest Henan  . .    49
Roads mprovement Program  . . . *   . .  . . .        50
D. Overall Return, and Sensitivity Analysis   . . . . . .     50
E. Project Risks  . . .  . . .  . ... .   . ....  . o o. .. ...  51
V.  AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . .     52
FIGURES IN TEXT
1.1  International Comparison of Land Transport Networks  . . . . .     1
1.2  Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends  . . . . . . . . . . .     3
1. Road Improvement Program  ...........  ... ... .                 54
2. Training Program  . . . . . o . .. . . . . . . . . .. .          58
3. Trucking Study--Draft Terms of Reference  . . o . . . . . . .    68
4. Environmental A.ea.ment/Management/Montoring Summary for the
Expressway--Provincial, County and Rural Road Components of
the Project           . . .          9 9 9 . . ........ .. .    75
5. Resettlemont Action Plans   .................                    90
6. Implementation Schedula   . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    96
7. SupervisionMissionPlan  .... . . . . . . .           .          103
8. Toll Rate Study for the Zhengzhon-Luoyang Expressway--Out)ine
Ttrm of Reference  . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .  . .   105
9. Selected Documents Available in the Project File  *  *  * ... *    107



- vi -
Pago No.
TABLES
1.1  Freiqht Traffic Intensities in Seolkted Countries               108
1.2  Road ain Railway Nereork Density in Selected Countries          109
1.3  China: Freight Tra-fic   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            110
1.4  China: Passenger Traffic   . . . . . . a . . . . . . .o .       111
1.5  China: Investments in the Transport Sector   . . . .            112
1.6  China: Transport Investment vs. Economic Output  . .            113
1.7  China: Highway Design Standards  . . . .                        114
1.8  China: Civiliar -.otor Vehicles   . . . .                       115
1.9  Chinat Highway Freight Transport   *   . .                      116
2.1  Henan: Economic Data, 1990   .                                  117
2.2   Henan: Traffic, 1980-90                                        1 IR... ..
2.3   Henan: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1990  . . . .   11
2.4  Henan: Road Network, 1990  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    120
2.5  Henan: Vehicle Fleet, 1980-90  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      121
2.6  Henan: Provincial Automotive Vehicle Production, 1°85-90   *    122
2.7  Henan: Freight Transported by Road, 1980-90  .                  123
2.8  Henan: Highway Finance, 1985-95    .                            124
2.9  Henan: Fuel Prices   . . S .    .                          .    125
3.1  Road Improvement Program of Henan Province during 1993-95       126
3.2  Project Cost Su ary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    128
3.3  Estimated Disbursement Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . *    129
4.1  Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressways Price Conversion Factors for
Capital Costs   . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . . . . . .    130
4.2  Traffic on the Project Roads  . . .  . . .   . . .  . . .   . . .  .    131
4.3   Economic Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    132
4.4  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs by Type of Vehicle and
Road Type                        , . . . . . . . . . . . . .   133
4.5  Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway: Cost-Bonefit Analysis  . . . .    134
4.6a  Provincial Highways in NW Henan: Cost-Benefit Analysis         135
4.6b Sanmenxia-Songcun Provincial Highway: Cost-Benefit
Analysis . . . .  ....  .  .  .... ...........................  136
4.7  Rural Roads: Cost-Benofit Analysis                              137
4.8  Economic Evaluation Summary and Sensitivity Analysis .o  . .     138
gAART
1. Organization of Henan Province Communication Department   . .    139
2. Organization of Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway
Construction Authority (HGHCA)  . . * . . . . . . . . . . . .    140
3. Organization of Henan Highway Institute   . . . . . . . . . .    141
4. Organization of Henan Highway Vocational School   . . 9 . . .    142
5. Organization of Henan Highway Scientific Research Institute     143
6. Organization of Kenan Highway Design Institute (HPDI)           144
HAPS
1 Chtna, Major Highway Development Program, IBRD 24225
1 Henan Highway Project, Transport System, IBRD 23486
2 Henan Highway Project, Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway, IBRD 23487



CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. THE IRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
i.1       The tranaport system in China is characterized by intensive freight
traffic in relation to economic output, heavily suppresead demand, high utili-
zation of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distortions in tariffs
and costs.  Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in ton-km -   dollar
of GNP, is even higher than in the (former) Soviet Union, and it, u;' higher
than in India, Brazil or the United States (Table 1.1). The major xcasons
behind China's high freight traffic intensity are a relatively large heavy
industry stator, reliance on zoal as the major source of energy, and a large
volume oi other bulk products. In addition, energy efficiency in China ie
relatively low, and there is still little preprocessing of raw materials
before shipping. On the other hand, the density of China's transport notwork,
measured both on the basis of geographic area and population, is among the
lowest in the world (Figure 1.1 and Table 1.2).
Fiture 1.1:  INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON OF LAND TRANSPORT NETWORKS
1ftilado C=Wism of ilwy Noea                atwuaonal Compus of Ro,d Nrwab
B. Traffic
1.2       Freizht Traffic.  The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traf-
fic, severely taxing the transport system. Freight traffic has grown at about
9 percent per annum; port freight traffic also has grown at about 9 percent
per annum; and interclty highway freight traffic has grown at about 18 percent
pet annum--consistently higher than the growth of gross domestic production
(Table 1.3). These rates would have been even higher were it not for the
capacity constraints which are evident in all modes. Many power plants and
factories have fallen short of their productlon goals because the transport
system has not been able to aeliver the needed raw materials in time. Coal



production in Shanxi province, the largest coal producer, continues to be
hampered by inadequate rail capacity. Rural areas throughout the country are
short of transport services, boti for crops and for local light industry. The
capacity of navigabJe vwterways has declined due to lack of investment in
upgrading and maintaining navigation channels. At the ports, lack of modern
facilities limits the handling in bulk of commodities such as fertilizers,
cement, and grain.
1.3       Pamsenaer Traffic.  The transport system is further taxed by the
marked growth in the demand for passenger travel in the last decade.  Since
the economic reforms of 1979, passanger traffic has growrn at nearly 12 percent
per annum, illustrating the positive relationship betwemn growth ir. income and
growth in demand for travel (Table 1.4). Nonetheless, passenger travel per
capita ins China remains very low, in part because of severe capacity con-
atraAnts. Civil avintion traffic, despite growing much faster than any other
mode, is still very limited, and most long-distance journeys are made by rail.
1.4         ansoot Demand and Modal SRlit Trends.  Although the railway's
share of traffic has declined over the last 10-20 years and the trend is
likely to continue as the share of rcqd traffic growes unlike in other coun-
tries, rail transport still dominates freight and passenger traffic in China.
In 1990, 58 percent of freight (Table 1.3) and 46 percent of passenger traffic
(Table 1.4) were moved by rail, and the rest was moved by road, inland water-
way, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. The continued preemi-
nence of the railway is in part due to the stracture of the Chinese economy,
wheroin heavy industry . prominent and coal is the dominant energy source.
Coal and the large quantities of other bulk inputs associated with heavy
industry are well-suited for railway transport and constitute the majority of
railway traffic in China. In the case of passenger transport, it is due
partly to the virtual absence of private automobiles, and partly to the
limited use of aviation. Civil aviation's share was only 3.1 percent for
passenger traffic and 0.04 percerut for freight traffic.
1.5       As a reosult of the slowdown in economic activities in 1939/1990,
transport demand, particularly of passengers,, dropped significantly, and tem-
porarily alleviated the congestion in transport facilities. Preliminary fig-
ures indicate that resumption of high ecoromic growth in 1991 has resulted in
a corresponding surge in transport demand.
C. Investment
1.6       The Government of Chincs .ias repeatedly pronounced transport bottle-
necks to be one of the most severe constraints to economic growth. However,
transport investment levels have not kept pace with the increased demands.
Thus, while annual investments in the transport sector measured in current
prices surged approximately three times during the period of the fifth, sixth
and seventh five-year plans (1976-90), the share of total public investment
dedicated to transport remained quite steady over this period, averaging about
13 percent (Table 1.5). Further, investments in transport infrastructure
represented about 1.4 percent of GNP during 1980-90, compared to 2-3 percent
for countries such as South Korea and Brazil. Transport investments as a per-
centage of GNP have declined from a high of 2.4 percent during the Fourth
Five-Year Plan (1971-75), to 103 percent during the Seventh Five-Year Plen
(1986-90) (7FYP), despite the absolute increase in transport investments dur-



- 3 -
FigJrA 1:2s TRANSPORT DEMAAND MD (ODAL SPLIT TRENDS
adm Faft Tf                              & PIW Tf
4m ~     ~      m
-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -!
a" us   ui  £5   12  15    aS 1am     I 96 go   £5   i m   1061   5    IN' J$   g I  1 23 I 15 to"     M
Ing the period (Table 1.6). In the future, a substantial expansion of invest.
mento will be needed if the transport-related constraints to economic growth
are to be removed.
D. Transport Issues and Obiectives
1.7      The key issues in the transport sector are:
(a)  chronic shortaLes in the supply of transport services due to under-
investment, resulting in severe economic losses due to unmet demand;
(b) excess demands generated by underpricing of transport services and
transport-intensive commodities (particularly coal);
(c)  uneven development of modes (i.e., excessive rel_ance or. rail, rela-
tive neglect of other modes, and the absence of modern, integrated
intermodal services);
(d) lack of modern technology within each mode (obsolescent vehicles,
infrastructure, and operating systems), resulting in high iperating
costs and poor services;
(e) shortages of human resource skills in specific key areas, particu-
larly in multimodal planning and policy analys3Ls, economic analysis,
and user-centere" logistics management; and
(f) structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to project and company management, quality control and procurement
procedures.
1.8      Achieving a better balance between demand and supply is vital
becaume chronic shortages of transport services have been increasingly con-
straining the growth of the Chinese economy. The effects have been seen in
the past in electric powar shortages due to lack of coal transport capacity,
but transport constraints pose economic problems well beyond their effects on
the energy sector.  The poor quality of transport c_ .viees resulting from
shortages of often outmoded equipment and substandard, often congested infra-



-4-
structure, imposes high costa and impedeo the integration of markets, which Is
one of the major sources of economic efficiency in modemn soleties. The
ability of China to compete in world export markets is also reduced, particu-
larly for light manufacturing and high-value agricultural exports, which
req ire effictont, flexible, fast door-to-door services.
1.9       Despite recent adjuatwents, pricing distortions are still a major
problem. Cost analyses conducted during a recent study In Guangdong Prov-
ince 1/ suggest that, iespite substantial tariff increases in 19899 nation-
wids long-distance coa0  transport, for example, is underpriced by as much as
40 percent relative to long-run Incremental costs, thus generating uneconomic
excess demands which clog the tranbs,ort system. Distortionc in the opposite
direction occur in highways and aviation, where tariffa may exceed long-run
incremental costs, thus distorting the choice of modes. So far, enterprises
have lacked appropriate incentives to set tariffs to reflect coats as they
have had only limited financial autonomy, and competition among transport
modes has been minimal due to regulatory restrict 'ons and the congested con'i-
tion of the system.
1.10      China has so far falled to acquire the full spectrum of modern
transport technology. It still relies on the railway to handle muc%i traffic
could be better served by modern highway vehicles and by the rhirplane.
Both these modes are modernizing and are steadily increasing their share of
total traffic, in highways for both freight and passengers, and in aviation
especially for the movement of people. There is also some railwag traffic
which could be more economically served by coastal shipping. The Ministry of
Railways in recent years has significantly increased tariffs for short-haul
commodities, so as to encourage diversion of this traffic to other modes and
to concentrate on long-haul bulk commodities, where its comparative advantage
lies.
1.11      Over the long run, China's choice of which modes to expand and by
how much should be based on an understanding of the differences in costs and
service characteristics of the different modes, on the one hand, and prospec-
tive changec in the structure and level of transport demand, on the other. At
the present time, there is a need for China to train planners and policy ana-
lysts in the analytical tools necessary to evaluate those choices and to iden-
tify the instrnuments required to effect the necessary changes.
1.12      Trangnort Sector Reforms. The Government has already taken steps to
respond to some of these challenges. Notably, it has:
(a) made major adjustments in transport tariffs and is conducting cost-
Ing studies that will provide the basis for further adjustments. In
addition, it has allowed local authorities more autonomy to plan,
finance, and implement projects which will expand transport capa-
city;
15   Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study, Transportation Divi-
sion, Country Department III, Asia Regional Office, World Bank, July 7,
1991.



- 5 -
(b) opened transport infrastructure, notably ports and highways, to
participation by private financing. In highways, this will allow
private capital to finance thc construction of toll road& and
bridges and to manage their operations;
(c)  allowed private individuals and coercially oriented collective and
township enterprises to provide passenger and freight transport
services on roads and Inland waterways and has encouraged provincial
authorities to develop local railway systems;
(d) carried out major structural reforms in the organization and manage-
ment of civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased finan-
cial autonomy and accountability, less central governnent controls
and paving the way for introduction of competitive services;
(e) reduced operating and capital subsidies for major infrastructure
serviLes, through higher cost recovery and creation of user-funded
capital construction fundsl
(f) en:ouraged introduction of more modern technology in the transport
system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the rail-
way subsector; enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in the
port subsector; improving road pavement design and geometric stan-
dards for the expansion of motorization in the highway subsector;
and increasing the use of computerized data processing and planning
techniques in operations in all modes.
S. l-ank Group Partigination in the Triansnort Sector
1.13      The Bank Group has supported the initiatives of the Government in
the transport sector through projects, sector studies, technical assistance,
and training. Through June 1992, the Bank Group had loaned about $2.9 billion
to China under 23 projects for the transport sector and presently is preparing
several new transport sector projects.
1.14      The railwal subsector has received $1,385 million in Bank Group
funding under six projects (Loan 2394-CM;I Loan 2540-CA; Loan 2678-CMA/Credit
1680-CA; Loan 2968-CMA; Loan 3060-CMA/Credit 2014-CHA and Loan 3406-CA).
These projects have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling
equipment; one project is assisting construction of a line in Inner Mongolia.
The most recent project is assisting with rail technology modernization;
development of systemwide plans, planning tools and costing studies; and add-
ing capacity where lt is urgently needed. The audit of the first Railway
Project noted that physical components were well executed and that macro-
policy adjustmenta, especially in the area of tariff reforms, and investment
prioritization were likely to have the highest impact; these conclusions have
been considered in d6signing the railway project currently under preparation.
1.15      The hiahwav subsector has received $788 million in Bank Group
financing under seven projects (Loan 2539-CMA/Credit 1594-CMA; Loan 2811-CMA/
Credit 1792-CM;i Loan 2951-CM&/Credit 1917-CM; Loan 2932-CMA; Credit 191V-
CKM Loan 3073-CRA/Credit 2025-CMA; Loan 3471-CA). These projects provide
for the construction of high-quality national and provincial roads totaling



- 6 -
about 1,276 km, and the expansion and improvement of ome 3,250 km of rural
(lower class provincial, county, village) roads and major bridges. When com-
pleted, some of these roads will help to provide vital missing links in the
national highway network; others will help to ease severe congestion in parts
of the network or provide access to remote areas. The projects are also
designed to provide foreign technical assistance and training of Chinese per-
sonnel in areas such as supervision and quality control of road construction,
design, and plnning. Finally, the projects support studies on key issues of
nighway development such as road safety, pavement management, user charges,
a0 m-4eds of financing the expansion, improvement, and rehabilitation of the
road network. The first Highway Project (Loan 2539-CMA, Credit 1594-CMA) is
completed; a PCR was issued in May 1992.
1.16      The ports subsector has received $509 million of Bank Group finan-
cing under seven projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHM, 2907-CMA, 2877-CHA, 3006-
C3A, 3007-CMA, and Credit P-5623-CA). Most of the loan funds are being used
in Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu, Ningbo, and Xlimen for construction of
terminals, jetties, and berths for handling bulk commodities, general cargo,
and containers, as well as the dredging of navigation channels. Funds also
have been used for training, technical assistance, and various studies such as
port planning, operations management, and containerization. The audit report
of the first port project found the project successfully completed, on time
and below cost, but recommended developing long-term strategic port investment
planning and Improving prequalification procedures; recommendations on the
former point have been incorporated in the preparation of the forthcoming port
project in Shanghai, and recommendations on the latter have been taken into
account in the discussion of procurement procedures In transport projects
under preparation. The most recent project, the Ship Waste Disposal Project,
cofinanced between IDA and the Global Environmental Facility (GE?), will
reduce pollution of international and Chinese territorial waters caused by
ships' wastes.
1.17      The urban transport subsector had the first project (Credit 2296-
CHA, $60 million), approved in September 1991, intended as a first stage of a
long-term program to upgrade and develop urban infrastructure in Shanghai,
will finance capacity increases on key urban links and will assist the
Shanghai Metropolitan Government to improve planning, programming, financing,
and management of its urban transport system.
1.18      One SUllmodal project was approved in 1991 (Loan 3316-CHA/Credit
2226-CMA, $154 million) to improve provincial transport in Jiangsu. While the
main focus of the project is on rehabilitating the provincial road network,
this project also includes the first loan to the inland waterway subsector, to
be used to rehabilitate a section of the Grand Canal and expand an import
shiplock.
1 19      The dialogue between the Gavernment and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has been strengthened both through the project
preparation activities and project-financed studies mentioned above and
through other studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities.
A provincial transport study has been conducted in Guangdong Province (para.
1.9) to support the design of a new multimodal transport plan in the province.
Tho Bank Group also conducted a survey cf the national water transport systom,
which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the large potential of thu



- 7 -
Chinese waterways. In preparation for future highway lending, the Bank
assisted in the screening of national highway improvement proposals, aimed to
better identify highway construction priorities. Chinese authorities and the
Bank Group are currently preparing or undertaking new transport studies which
will focus on long-term strategies for the country transport system. These
studies include a multiport optimization study to evaluate medium- to long-
term options for developing the deep-water seaport at Ningbol a study of stra-
tegic issues and the role of ports and shipping in southern China; a multimo-
dal transport study to examine strategic options in developing the transport
system for the Yangtze Economic Zone (Shanghai Municipality together with the
provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anhui); a coal transport study to evaluate
strategies for alleviating coal delivery shortaFes through the year 2005; a
railway investment study to optimize railway investments within a system-wide
approach, and a railway costing study that will allow the enterprise to estab-
lish cost-based tariffs. In the highways subsector, the Bank and MOC are
discussing preparation of a number of studies that will cover finance, manage-
ment and other policy issues in infrastructure and in road transport services
(para. 1.38).
1.20      These projects and studies are helping to spur the growth and mod-
ernization of the transport system. However, much more needs to be done to
bring about the changes required to effectively deal with the emerging issues.
In order to significantly alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize
the transport system, the government would need, by the year 2000, to take the
following measures:
(a)  increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP,
to expand capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up
the backlogs caused by past underinvestment;
(b)  realize the most economical balance of investments among the major
freight transpirt modes of railway, highway, and water;
(c)  realign further the prices of freight transport services and those
of the major commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to
their true costs;
(d)  increase further the productivity of existing transport assets
through technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e)  improve multimodal investment decisions, both across and within
modes, through the use of analysis and planning tools that more
reliably determine the optimum economic priorities of transport
investments under budget constraints.
1.21      In the past, the Bank has supported the government in implementing
the above measures mainly by focusing on expanding traffic capacity and
improving operational efficiency. While such support will remain, the Bank
will broaden its strategy and will assist the government in the design and
implementation of institutional and sectoral reforms in other areas, including
investment planning, pricing and financing, services' deregulation, opera-
tional management, and transfer of advanced transport-related technology
through training and provision of up-to-date equipment.



F. The Hiahwav Subsector
The National Highwav Network and its Utilization
1.22      The hi&hvav network totaled about 1,028,000 km in 1990 and relative
to either population or geographic area, ranked among the smallest in the
world (page 1, Figure 1.1). About 30 percent of China's villages have no
access to roads suitable for motor vehicles. Investment in the highway sub-
sector has been rather modest, at 21 percent of total investment in the trans-
port sector during the 7FYP. Since the early 1980s, the highway system has
borne an increasing share of traffic. The network is, for the purposes of
design and technical specifications, classified by the Ministry of Communica-
tions (MOC) as Expressway, and Classes 1, 2, 3 and 4 for various traffic
capacities in different terrain. These classifications are shown in Table
1.7, which also shows the geometric standard. now being used. For
administrative purposes, roads are classified as national, provincial, county,
village, and special purpose.
1.23      China's road network consists mainly of aging roads with neither the
geometric capacity nor the structural strength to carry current traffic. Both
the volume of road traffic and the axle loads have increased over the past
decade, with rapid economic expansion and diversion of traffic from rail and
water modes. Many of the roads need upgrading in addition to normal mainte-
nance and rehabilitation. Despite major strides in road building during the
last decade, as much as 70 percent of the paved road syatem remains inadequate
in terms of meeting the needs of modern road transportation.
1.24      A Bank policy study on roal deterioration in developing countries
classified China among countries with an extensive and obsolete road network
in need of modernization to meet the rapid growth in road transport. China
has not neglected road maintenance, but the aging road system and the outmoded
maintenance technology have seriously constrained good maintenance practices.
China needs to mobilize domestic and external resources for modernizing its
road system with special emphasis placed on technology transfer, institutional
improvement, and development of skills. There are few absorptive capacity
constraints relative to achieving these objectives given China's decentral-
ized, stable, and financially accountable highway administration structure.
1.25      The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the coun-
try's rapid economic growth but also from other factors such as the national
policy of shifting short-haul rail transport to road transport and the expan-
sion of the service sector and rural industries. Purthermore, with the
;ncrease in foreign trade, growth in transport demand will be concentrated in
transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands and, with the
containerization of the higher value commodities, much of domestic movements
for this foreign trade is expected to go by road. The new economic activities
have generated traffic in excess of what the existing facilities can accommo-
date. Congestion on roads resulting from the mix of slow-moving nonmotorized
and motorized traffic is a serious problem. Road pavements, which are gener-
ally well maintained, are showing increasing levels of roughness.
1.26      The vehicle fleet totaled some 5.5 million trucks, buses and cars in
1990, with trucks comprising over 71 percent. Most trucks are of four-ton
capacity with outmoded designs and low fuel efficiency. Most of the trucks



- 9 -
and buses are gasoline powered. These vehicles were manufactured domestically
and, until recently, the production of trucks was barely sufficient to replace
the retired vehicles, let alone meot growing demand. It was not until the
early 1980s that a large number of modern vehicles was imported and joint
ventures with foreign manufacturers were started to manufacture trucks; pro-
duction has grown steadily to reach 647,000 units in 1988, but dropped consid-
erably in 1989 and 1990 due to the economic stagnation in those years. This
production is contributing to the creation of a new fleet, although the older
vehicles still dominate. Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly
steady over the last 12 years, with particularly strong growth in small pas-
senger vehicles.
1.27      The tractor and motorcycle fleets, at 4.6 million and 4.2 million,
rival the size of the truck and bus fleet. Both tractors and motorcycles
offer a relatively cheap and basic form of transport, but add seriously to
traffic congestion on rural roads (principally tractors) and urban streets
(mainly motorcycles), and are a major cause of road accidents. Growth in the
tractor and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply, with motorcycles showing
the strongest growth of all vehicle types (Table 1.8).
1.28      The truckina industry consists of publiclv owned trucks operated by
trucking companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway
authorities, and other truck. operated by factories, cooperative organizations
and, recently, private Individuals. The relaxation of trucking regulations in
the early 1980a allowed own-account trucks to haul cargo for other factories
and cooperatives and thus promoted competition between public and own-account
trucks. In fact, nonpublic trucks have absorbed most of the growth in traffic
over the past few years (Table 1.9). However, trucking costs are extremely
high, steamming in part from technological factors (poor roads, outmoded
trucks, etc.) but also from the lack of professional common carriers, which is
essential to the development of modern and efficient trucking services. While
market forces are expected to play a more important role in shaping the indus-
try in the future, it is necessary to understand the current constraints to
such development and to identify the measures needed to allow the reshaping of
the industry to take place.
1.29      Road safety is a major issue in China's transport system.  A study
completed in 1987 under the first Highway Project found the accident rate to
be 100 deaths per 10,000 vehicles, one of the highest in the world and costing
the Chinese economy close to $1 billion annually. The study also identified
essential measures needed to be taken, including improved police accident
reporting; introduction of computer-based accident analysis; identification of
accident causes and dangerous road spots; preparation of guidelines for road
safety design; improved administrative procedures; improved manpower training;
and preparation of a road safety action plan. Comprehensive treatment of the
road safety problem has been hampered by the transfer, early in 1988, of
responsibility for highway safety matters from MOC and the Provincial Trans-
port Departments (PTDs) to the Ministry of Public Security and its provincial
units. This decision has created administrative barriers which still have to
be overcome.



- 10 -
Hiahwav Administration. Planning and Finance
1.30      The provincial governments, through the Highway Administration
Bureaus of the PTDs, are responsible for the administration of the highwav
network. Arrangements for administration vary among provincest in the more
decentralized ones, the county and municipal governments perform some adminis-
trative and all of the operational functions relating to the highway network.
The central government's Ministry of Communications provides general policy
guidance and support to the PTDs through its nationwide policies and regula-
tions, specifying design and construction standards. MOC also provides spe-
cialized manpower for planning and design, and also construction equipment for
major provincial civil works, if needed. However, the PTDs are financially
independent of MOC and carry out all the road planning, construction, mainte-
nance, and administrition of roads and waterways in the provinces. MOC is
more heavily involved only in some large projects which are considered of
national importance and for which MOC shares part of the financial burden.
1.31      While the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is
responsible for nlannina and investment strategies for the develovment of the
National Highway System. A reclassification of the country's road network in
1981 led to the designation of key interprovincial links as National Highways.
More recently, MOC has been deve'.oping a long-term strategy for the systematic
upgrading of the national system in key corridors over a 30-year planning
horizon. The system, comprising twelve major routes, would connect all the
provincial capitals and cities with populations exceeding 500,000; route
selection would generally be based on the potential for maximizing industrial
production in the corridors selected for the initial, minimum-length network
(see Map IBRD 24225). Construction of 25,000 km of high standard, access-
controlled roads, is expected to be completed by the year 2025. Priority for
early construction is being given to those routes already congested and hin-
dering economic activity. By the end of 1991, some 500 km of the system had
been built, and a furthir 1,600 km is envisaged to be substantially completed
by the end of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) (8FYP) in 1995. The provin-
cial governments are responsible for route location, engineering design, con-
struction, operation and maintenance of the national highway system.
1.32      The provinces finance highway construction and maintenance through
the revenues generated by road maintenance fees, levied on the revenue of
freight and passenger transport companies and on the capacity of own-account
vehicles (para. 2.13). The MOC receives the revenues from a levy on vehicle
sales and uses these funds, which reach about Y 2 billion/year, to contribute
financing for: (a) the roads included in the national highway network, pro-
viding a higher share of ftlancing for the poorer, hinterland provinces and a
lower share for the richer, coastal provinces; and (b) construction or reha-
bilitation of rural roads located in poverty-stricken areas. According to a
recent study by HOC, if existing sources for funding both national and provin-
cial roads are not improved, by the year 2000 they will provide 30 percent
less than is needed to develop the highway system in line with the growth in
demand. The issue is especially critical in the coastal provinces with the
fastest economic growth, where the road systems are experiencing the highest
levels of congestion and deterioration.
1.33      Over recent years, HOC has embarked on two important activities
designed to improve highway planning and investment decisions:



- 11 -
(a) a computerized Road Data Bank (RDB), intended eventually to be
introduced In each provincial transport department. The road data
bank would contain all important road information at the national,
provincial and county level, providing the basis for improving the
economic rationale for decisions on expansion, rehabilitation,
strengthening and maintenance of the road networks. MOC's Highway
Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) has prepared a standard format
for the data to be inputted in the data bank and is setting guide-
lines for the provinces so that a uniform and fully integrated
rstionwide system can be establishetd and
(b)  a Pavement Manaaement System (PMS).  This system would allow for the
development of economically appropriate standards for pavement
design and maintenance, leading to improved decision-making and
timing of investments. Following research initially sponsored by
the State Plsnnitig Comaission (SPC) and the Ministry of Science and
Technology in 1986, MOC has taken the lead role in implementing
pavement management systems in the provinces, and pilot systems are
being set up in Guangdong, Shandong and Heb-i, among others.
1.34      In addition to its role in planning and financing, HOC serves an
iportant function as coordinator for the construction of priority sections of
the national highway network. In early 1990, HOC established a Technical
Coordinating Unit (TCU) to maintain close contact with the provinces executing
projects financed by the Bank and other external financiers. TCU's main focus
ha been to provide guidance to the project executing agencies and to coordi-
nate staff training and the development of RDB and PIS at the provincial
l-Ol.
1.35      In suary, despite government efforts to improve the highway system
and its utilization and administration, much more is needed to modernize the
system and allow it to effectively meet the increasing demands placed on road
transport, both in Improving physical capacity and the management of the sec-
tor. In addition, strategy papers for the development of the railway ard
highway systems and for defining the Bank's assistance role are being prepared
under a joint effort by the Bank and China. The key areas on which the gov-
ernment should focus attention to institutional reforms and training are:
(a) cost recovery and financing, to provide the resources needed to meet
the increasing costs of maintenance and operations and to encourage
an efficient use of the highway systems
(b) highway planning and investment strateg. 9, to better identify
short- and long-term highi ay development priorities;
(c) the role of MOC, to make it more consistent with the rapid decen-
tralization taking place In the management and financing of highway
operationso, and to strengthen its capacities to deal with its
expanded role;
(d) preparation of feasibility studies using modern analytical tech-
niqueo, and based on data and relationships reflecting actual condi-
tions on China's highways;



- 12 -
(e) the operations of the road user services industry, both for freight
and passengers, to reduce costs and improve quality of services,
through the promotion of competition, modern technology and better
managementI and
(f) the road construction industry, to improve the management and appli-
cation of contract conditions, modernize equipment, and clarify
relationships among clients, contractors and supervisory bodies.
The Bank's Exoerience and Strategv in Hi-hways
1.36      Of the eight Bank-financed highway and multimodal projects, (paras.
1.15 and 1.18), only the first Highway Project has been completed. The pro-
ject, which was designed to construct and improve 7 segments of the national
and 59 segments of the provincial/county road networks in nine provinces,
achieved its original objectives and clearly demonstrated the benefits accru-
ing from improved accessibility to communities deprived of adequate transport
infrastructure in economically less developed regions. Economic activity in
the area of influence of the project roads surged, and income levels increased
noticeably. Furthermore, the Bank's involvement facilitated the acceptance of
competition in the contracting for road works, even for smaller civil works
contracts, in preference to force account operations, and demonstrated the
merits of supervision of construction by specially assigned units.
1.37      Highways together with port projects constitute the Bank's first
major involvement with large civil works in China. As could be expected, the
introduction of international competitive bidding has been difficult. particu-
larly as each project involves a new implementing agency. Despite these dif-
ficulties, which have placed most civil works components in highway projects
behind appraisal schedule, much peogre  has been achieved and the concept of
competitive bidding is now generally accepted. These projects have brought to
the surface weaknesses in the local contracting industry and contract adminis-
tration by the executing agencies. These lessons are being used in the prepa-
ration of new projects, for example by strengthening the prequalification of
contractors to avoid selection of unqualified contractors, by strengthening
arrangements for construction supervision and by advancing the bidding process
in the implementation cycle. During preparation of the present project, such
experience has been taken into account (para. 3.59). The Bank's involvement
in highways has assisted HOC and the PTDs to develop a greater awareness of
the need for systematic planning through the development of the RDB and PHS.
The Bank has also helped in the transfer of technology through the supply of
equipment for road research and road maintenance, and through broad-based
training programs covering highway technology and advanced management prac-
tices.
1.38      The Bank's strate4v for future hiLhwav lending is to continue to
support institutional development and sectoral reforms a!med at modernizing
the highway system and its management. This support will continue both at the
central and provincial government levels. The Bank's dialogue with central
and provincial authorities as well as the insights gained during supervision
of the highway projects portfolio have helped to identify key issues in the
highway sector and devise ways to address them systematically. While some
institutional and sector issues will normally be addressed in every project,
other issues requiring more detailed studies will be addressed selectively in



- 13 -
individual provincial projects, with a view to formulating recommendations
that may also serve other provinces (para. 1.39). During the next three to
flive years, the investment components of highway projects will continue to
focus on high priority links of the national highway system, and to support
the development of the provincial road networks. The Bank strategy also
envisages continuing close collaboration with the MOC, and assisting it,
through economic and sector studies and through lending operations, in adapt-
Ing to the evolving needs of the Chinese economy.
1.39      Specifically, the Bank's strategy for forthcoming highway projects
comprises addressing the following issuess
(a)  Issues to be addressed in all highwav nroiects
(i) sound management of the existing highway network, including
adequate provision for rbhabilitation and maintenance, priori-
tized according 't.o economic analysis;
(ii) development of high standard, limited-access highways in spe-
cific corridors of proven high demand and inadequate existing
capacity;
(iii) satisfactory compliance with environmental and resettlement
requirements; and
(iv) promotion of road safety.
(b) Issues to be addressed in specific provincial hithwav Drolects
(i) Identification of a structure for adequate road user charges,
in order to mobilize the necessary resources for road develop-
ment and equitably recover from users the costs of the highway
system. A study would be conducted under a proposed Guangdong
Provincial Highway Project.
(ii) Promotion of adequate road freight services, including encour-
agement to private, collective and township enterprises to
enter the business as part of the reform of the transport sec-
tor. A study at the provincial level would be carried out
under the proposed highway project in Henan Province, and a
complementary study of trucking at the national level would be
conducted under the Bank's transport sector program.
(iii) A study would be conducted under the proposed highway project
in Fujian Province regarding the need to upgrade the capacity
and effectiveness of the highway construction industry. This
study would be followed by a pilot program under the project
for the provincial construction industry.
(iv) Integration of road transport services with other modes, par-
ticularly in the field of containerization, and the establish-
ment of modern, integrated multimodal services. The selection
of a highway project addressing this is still to be determined.



- 14 -
II.  EEN    PROVINCE
A. Economic Background
2.1       Henan, with about 85 million people, i. he country's second most
populous province. Landlocked in China's central plain, tha Yellow River
divid.s the province in two, the larger part to the south. The total aroa is
about 167,000 km?, representing 1.7 percent of the couvtry; the areA is about
equally divided between flat areas (56 percent) and rolling and mountainous
areas (44 percent). In addition to the Yellow River, the province has three
other main river basins: the Weihe, Hanshui and Hauihe Rivers. Availability
of water, a good amount of annual rainfall (785 mm), and a moderate climate,
make agriculture the province's main economic sLczor. Wheat, corn, tobacco,
and animal husbandry are the main rAgricultural outputs. The Bank is assisting
the development of agriculture through a project that aims to increase crop,
livestock and fish production and productivity in Northern and Eastern Henan
(Credit 2242-CRA) and is preparing a multipurpose dam project at liaolangdi
that will further enhance the province's agricultural production. The Yanahi
Thermal Power Project (Loan 3433-CHA) will help alleviate acute power short-
ages in all sectors, including agriculture.
2.2       The province also has a well-developed industrial base, with machin-
ery, textiles and foodstuffs having the highest output values. In 1990, the
value of total provincial agricultural and industrial production reachad about
$29 billion. Since the start in 1986 of the 7th FYP, the provincial economy
has been growing at an average annual rate of 7.6 percent, despite the reco-
sion in 1989/90. This is an impressive economic performance, particularly
since Henan, as other inland provinces, has not benefitted from the "special
economic zone" incentives which have propelled growth in several coastal prov-
inces. Despite Henan's high economic growth, its income per capita is some 40
percent below China's average (Table 2.1), and the province has Important
pockets of poverty areas. In 1991, the Government had classified 34 prefec-
tures and 42 counties, with a total population of about 10 million, as poor.
Lack of transport infrastructure is one of the key factors behind the
depressed economic conditions in these areas.
B.  The Tranesort System
2.3       Henan's strategic location as a crossroads of major north-south
(N-S) and east-west (E-W) rail and road corridors attracts large amounts of
transit traffic to use such facilities, particularly the railways. The pre-
dominsit transit cargo is coal, which originates in the neighboring provinces
of Shanxi and Shaanxi. Transport demands have increased substantially over
the last five years, due to fast economic growth of the province and of the
rest of the country, whose output traverses Henan to and from ports and major
population centers (Table 2.2).
2.4       Zhengzhou, the province's capital, is at the center of the key land
transport facilities. These are the N-S Beijing-Guangzhou railway and
national road 107, and the E-W Lenzhou-Lainyungang railway and national road
310. A number of other major railways, as well as local railways and roads,
cross the province. The total length of the province's rail network is



- 15 -
2,090 km. Due to its important transit function, Henan's transport system
density is larger than China's average (Table 2.3). However, as in the case
of the country as a whole, the provincial land transport system is small in
relation to the province's area and population, many important rail lines
operate at capacity and the key roads have low standards, carry significant
amounts of slow-moving traffic, and are severely congested. Rive- navigation
is not a major transport mode because the Yellow River is affected by serious
sand deposits in its riverbed. Other rivers also provide limited services.
The total length of navigable rivers is about 1,110 km, but most sections
allow small boats or ferries only, even under the best seasonal conditions.
2.5       With its high proportion of hilly and mountainous areas, and the
several water streams, topography and hydrography pose difficult barriers to
the development of land transport infrastructure. The provincial sovernment
has made a special effort to integrate the province's areas across the Yellow
River; over the last 20 years, it has built three highway bridges at Luoyang,
Zhengzhou and Kaifeng, and a fourth bridge is being completed at Sanmenxia.
2.6       Henan's highwav svstem extends about 43,000 km, of which only about
3,000 km (7 percent of the total) are of Class I and II roads, about 36,000 of
Class III and IV (83 percent of total), and the remainder are tracks (Table
2.4). Some 16 percent of the province's highway network is located in its
northwestern area.  The administrative classification of the road sy6.em in
1990 was as follows:
km                  I
National                      3,400                7.9
Provincial                    7,875               18.3
Prefectural                  10,753               24.9
County                       20,121               46.6
Other                         1,001                2.3
Total                     43.150              100.0
2.7       As in the rest of the country, most of Henan's highways were built
in the 1960s, and their design standards were suitable for the light vehicles
and low traffic levels prevailing in China at the time About 50 percent of
the roads have cement or asphalt pavement, but the pavements are of low bear-
ing capacity for the vehicles that circulate on them. Due to the substantial
growth in traffic levels and steady rise in the use of heavy vehicleo, these
roads increasingly are becoming inadequate to meet the needs. The provincial
government is giving high priority to repairing end strengthening the surfaces
of these roads.
2.8       In addition to inadequate standards, Henan's road network is small
and significant segments of the population cannot reach it. About 12.5 per-
cent of the villages have no access to roads of any kind, and 7.0 percent of



- 16 -
the counties do not have all-weather roads available to them. During the 7th
mYP, the piovincial government invested Y 40 million in poverty areas for 362
rural road projects, of which HOC contributed Y 9.3 million for 32 projects.
A slightly higher amount has been allocated by the province for this purpose
in the Sth FYP.
2.9       Henan's vehicle fleet expanded at a fast pace over the last decade
(Table 2.5). Some of these vehicles are manufactured in Henan (Table 2.6).
While the largest growth rates took place during the 1980-85 period, when some
categories such as small freight vehicles doubled every year, growth during
the second part of the decade has continued to be strong. During this period,
growth of small freight vehicles continued to be the highest (30.4 percent
annually), followed by motorcycles (28.4 percent annually). However, all
other vehicle categories also grew at high rates, between 7 percent and
15 percent annually. This includes tractors, which reached 289,000 units in
1990. This number is larger than all other freight vehicles combined. While
tractors are mainly used for agricultural purposes, often they travel on the
roads, posing significant safety hazards and, due to their lkw speeds,
severely reducing road capacity.
C. Traffic
2.10      Over the last decade, traffic has been rising strongly in all modes,
with annual average growth rates for land transport of 7.9 percent for freight
and 10.0 percent for passengers. Highway traffic rose at even hxgher rates,
22.6 percent and 16.7 percent annually, respectively, and is taking an
increasing share of total traffic (Table 2.2).
2.11      The increase in road freight and passenger transport is reflected in
the traffic growth on individual roads. In main trunk roads, such as Kaifeng-
Zhengzhou-Luoyang, the annual rata of traffic growth over the last five years
has ranged between 5 percent and 23 percent, depending on the section.
2.12      Highway traffic includes a high proportion of slow-moving vehicles,
mainly tractors of various sizes. Traffic includes also substantial bicycles
and other nonmotorized vehicles. In 1990, tractors accounted for some
10-30 percent of all motorized traffic in the Kaifeng-Luoyang route. While in
the main roads, slow-moving traffic is growing at lower rates than overall
traffic, it still is a major factor in road congestion. Special lanes for
this traffic are provided in some roads, and they help decongest and improve
safety, but do not fully address the problem due to speed differentials and
vehicle mix (from manually-drawn carts to bicycles and tractors). To tackle
this problem, Henan is starting development of access-controlled highways
where traffic volumes are sufficiently high to justify them.
2.13      The high growth of road traffic and Its increasing share of total
transport stm from the development of the road system, and from increasing
volumes of industrial output for which roads are a convenient mode of trans-
port. The steep growth in road traffic shows the strong demand for highway
service, since the surge in traffic took place despite severe constraints
posed by inadequate road standards, small coverage of the system, high conges-
tion, and poorly developed trucking services. Over the next 5 to 10 years,
highway traffic is likely to continue to grow at a high pace, in response to



- 17 -
the growth of the national and provincial economies, to change& in economic
structure favoring faster door-to-door road services, and to improvements in
the national highways in Henan as in the neighboring provinces. ',uch road
improvements will allow more long-distance, interprovincial trade and people
to travel by road.
2.14      Over the medium term, differentials in road-rail tariffs should
decrease, curther increasing the demand for road transport. Rail tariff
increases since 1985, which have been especially strong for passengers and for
short-haul freight traffic (300 percent increase for freight distances less
than 100 km) have reduced the tariff gap, but it is still high. At present,
road transport tariffs for general cargo are close to four times higher than
the railway (Y 0.038/ton-km compared to Y 0.11/ton-km, respectively) for haul
distances of about 100 km). The transport price differential diminishes when
transshipment costs and traval times are considered For passengers, the
tariffs are much closer between the two modes (Y 0.049/pass-km on road trans-
port, compared to Y 0.038 for railways, for distances of about 100 km). The
tariff differential should gradually decrease as the railways continues to
adjust its tariffs upwards, and as improvements to tha roads and in the effi-
ciency of the trucking industry reduce the costs of road transport.
D. The Truckina Industry
2.15      As elsewhere in China, public trucking operations in Henan are char-
acterized by low load factors, high operating costs and rates, and poor qual-
ity of services. Such services are provided by three categories of transport
companiess state-owned, collective and private. Due to the weaknesses of
public trucking, most large industrial and commercial compar,ies have bought
their own vehicles, making own-account trucking the major road freight car-
rier. Such companies are estimated to own about 60 percent of the road
freight fleet and to do about 40 percent of the ton-km. While own-account
trucking is even less efficient than public carrier services, most enterprises
have found this approach convenient, and the proportion of own-account truck-
ing has been increasing in the last years (Table 2.7).
2.16      As noted in pars. 2.14, road freight tariffs are substantially
higher than the railway's. The differential is too large under intternational
standards even taking into account that in China (a) road costs are high due
to poor road conditiong (b) railway operating costs are low due to high traf-
fic densities and efficient operations and (c) many railway tariffs Are below
cost. Despite the high tariffs for road transport, most of the large trucking
companies owned by the cities or prefectures lose money. Collective and pri-
vate trucking companies appear to do well financially, in part due to better
utilization of their equipment and in part due to fewer social obligations
than the government companies. Government-operated freight information
offices throughout the province provide, for a fee, freight information/
brokerage services to shippers and truckers. This service, which is operated
as a government monopoly,, does not provide the type of detailed information
and dynamic services required in a modern trucking sector.
2.17      Henan authorities are concerned about the low efficiency and poor
quality of trucking services and the proliferation of own-account trucking.
Recently, restrictions hisi been placed for enterprises to purchase and oper-



- 18 -
ate their own vehiclec, and other measures have been taken to improve control
of trucking operations. While such measures are expected to generate some
Improvements, they are not likely to induce the kind of gains in efficiency
and quality of services which is required. The proposed project includes a
detailed study of trucking In the province, which will consist of a diagnosis
of the present situation and of recommendations for improvements.
E. xi&gav Administrtio_n
2.18      The  enna Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) controls high-
way end iland river navigation end local railways undertakings in the Prov-
ince as well as the Zhonguan Civil Aviation Company (Chart 1). The HPCD
reports directly to the provincial govervment end acts as its administrative
arm for planning, budgeting and financing of transport in the province. How-
ever, HPCD conform to the general transport policy and technical guidelines
issued by HOC. Key agencies under Its administration for the management of
Hennan's highway system are Henan Provincial Planning and Design Institute
(HPDI), Henan Provincial Scientific Research Institute (HPSRI) of Communica-
tions, Renan Provincial Highway Institute (HPHI), Henan Provincial Vocational
School (HPVS) of Communications, and the High-Grade Highway Constructi-n
Authority (HGOCA). Their respective duties are to plan, survey and design
roadsl conduct highway research; train and replenish technical and management
personnel; and construct and manage high-grade highways. The proposed project
will help strengthen these five institutions (para. 3.23).
2.19      The hnnan Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (HAB) under the
administwation of HPCD is responsible for construction, renovation, mainte-
nance and management of the provincial highway network. It receives profes-
sional and technical guidance from the Engineering Administration Department
of HOC. With a h'adquarters staff of about 99, HAB executes its responsibili-
ties through the local admivtstrations set up in the various municipalities
and profectures (total number, 17) and counties (131 county level and district
and 1,271 maintenace gangs) of the Province (Chart 1). The 17 highway dis-
tricts are In charge of local construction, maintenance and management of the
national and provincial highway network in their jurisdiction. Each of the
counties has responsibility under the districts to construct and maintain tho
county and rural highway under Its jurisdiction. The total staff of HAB and
the highway departments of the cities, prefectures and counties amout to
about 40,640 in 1991, of which about 2,350 are engineeriag and technical per-
sonnel and about 1,540 are finance, economics and management personnel. The
three construction divisions of the Highway Engineering Bureau are responsible
for construction of large- and medium-sized highay projects. The High-Grade
Highway Construction Authority (HCHCA) is in charge of construction and man-
agment of high-grade highways, such as expressways.
2.20      BONCA is a department-level Institution which reports directly to
PCD. Established In 1990, HGHCA's first task, currently underway, is the
construction and managment of the Expressway between Kaifeng, Zhengzhou and
Luoyang. However, as the network of high-grade highways is expanded, HGHCA
will be in charge of all that network, and as exproesways are put into opera-
tion, IGECA is expcted to become responsible for the maintenance and oper-
ation of that network. The organizational structure of HIGCA is shown on
Chart 2. The president of HGECA is the director of HPCD, and he is assisted



- 19 -
by a committee of 20 members representing all agencies that have a bearing on
the work of HGHCA. The approved number of *taff for HGHC& is 50, including 32
professional and technical personnel. All these positions have been filled.
At present, EGHCA's source of finance la the income it derives from managing
high-grade highway projects.
P. Planning. Budaetina ind Financing
2.21      P snninyt. HPCD has overall responsibillty ior planning, funding,
and maintaining the provincial highway network. However, the highway adminis-
tration units at the prefecture, county, and village levels have considerable
autonomy in planning smaller road investments. These mallor investments are
subject to the approval of HPCD, largely as a formality. Bach administrative
group prepares investment plans for the highway network under its jurisdiction
and submits them to the planning division of HPCD by September of each year
for the next year's plan starting January 1. Before the end of January, HPCD
approves the next year's plan for each county or local authority concerned.
Similarly, using inputs from lower level administrative groups, HPCD prepares
the five-year road development plen reflecting national or provincial develop-
ment policy guidelines and objectives for the plan period.
2.22      Budgeting. As is done in all provincial communication departmontn
in China, HPCD follows a balanced budget policy. The proposed highway Invest-
ment is always balanced against the revenue earmarked for highway development;
the funds for investments and maintenance approved for each year are closely
related to the mount of funds expected to be available to HPCD for the sene
year. In October of each year and before BPCD approves the following year's
projects, the current year's planned investments are reviewed against actual
investments ant revenue receipts and adjustments are made where needed.
2.23      Finoncint.  The road maintenance fee provides the main source of
funds to finance construction and maintenance of the highway sector. The
maintenance fee structure is similar for various provinces, but the rates
differ from one province to another. HPCD collects this fee from motor vehi-
cles throughout the province. HPCD determines the fee rates and, through the
provincial government, reports the fee to the State Council for approval. The
rates vary according to the type and size of vehicle, as follows: (a) vehi-
cles owned by state transport companies, and collective professional transport
companies are charged 15 percent of their gross revenue; (b) vehicles owned by
collective and private transport companies are charged Y 130 per month per
payload ton for trucks and Y 150 por month per 10 passenger seats; and
(c) passenger cars are charged Y 75 per month. The maintenance fee provides
the source of income for all maintenance and overhead, and for a substantial
portion of upgrading costs. Revenue from this fee increased from about
Y 343 million in 1985 to about Y 680 million in 1990, or 14.7 percent per
year. However, not all of these monies are available to the Province for
highway purposes, as about 15 percent a t remitted to MWP for the Rnei&by &ad
Comunmications Fund and 2 porcent are remitted to the Public Security Bureau
to police highways, enforce traffic laws and for safety. Thus, the road main-
tonance funds left to Henan Proavince increased from about Y 298 million in
1985 to about Y 579 sillion in 1990, or 14.2 percent annually.



- 20 -
2.24      Other sources of revenue for highways includes  (a) allocations from
HOC for construction and reconstruction of national and major provincial roads
on a selective basis; (b) local funds raised from tolls on the three bridges
at Luoyang, Zhongzhou and Kaifeng; (c) road bonds; and (d) loans from banks.
Revenues from the first rose from About Y 50 million in 1985 to Y 86 million
in 1990 or an 11.5 percent annual increase. The second rose from about
Y .5 million in 1985 to about Y 32 million in 1990, or a 47.9 percent
increase per year, a higher growth rate due to opening of the toll bridges
during the period. The third (road bonds) amounted to about Y 42.0 million in
1986 and was zero for other years. HPCD does not expect to resort to this
method of finance during the next few years. The fourth (bank loans) amounted
to Y 72.0 million during 1986-88, and those funds were used for the construc-
tion of the Zhengzhou and Kaifeng Yellow River bridges. Consequently, total
revenues available to the Province for highway purposes have increased from
about Y 352 million in 1985 to about Y 696 in 1990, or a 14.6 percent increase
per year (Table 2.8). However, these figures do not include local labor con-
tributions, especially in countAes and villages, which averaged about
Y 150 million per year during 1985-90.
2.25      Fuel prices in China are not subsidized.  Fuel taxes are charged to
road users, but they are collected by MOF and are not allocated back to road
wazka. PFel taxes currently amount to 43 percent of the base price of gaso-
line and 13 percent of the base price of diesel fuels. Total fuel prices,
including taxes, show that prices at the pump for planned fuel allocations are
comparable to international market prices, while those charged in the open
market are well above international market prices and are increasing at a rate
comparable to the consumer price index (Table 2.9).
G. Engineering. Construction and Maintenance
2.26      Road and bridge projects are engineered by the planning and design
institutes at the provincial, prefecture and county levolsa The Henan Plan-
ning and Design Institute (HPDI) is responsible for designing all major road,
bridge and tunnel projects. These design institutes are, in general, compe-
tent and have experienced personnel for carrying out highway design tasks.
These institutes will design the provincial and rural roads included in the
project. HPDI designed the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway (the part
from Zhengzhou to Luoyang is included in the project). Since expressways are
new to Henan Province and to China as a whole, the design was reviewed by a
team of Finnish experts to ascertain the adequacy of the design and bid docu-
ments and suitability for use in ICB for building the Expressway.
2.2?      Construction of roads and bridges is supervised by personnel from
county, city and prefectural highway unite. Generally, these units have com-
petent personnel to adequately supervise these work.. HPCD has created the
High-Grade Highway Supervision Department -nitially to supervise the Raifeng-
Zheugzhou-Luoyang Expressway. HAB has eetablished the Offico of Supervision
of Provincial and Rural Roads to be In charge of supervising the roads in
northwest Henan and the roads included in the Road Improvement Program, both
of which are components of the proposed project. Rowever, as Zhengzhou-
Luoyang Expressway is the first high standard road (expressway) to be built in
the Province, it was considered appropriate to involve a limited number of



- 21 -
qualified foreign personnel to help the local personnel in supervising the
construction of this exproesway (para. 3.18).
2.28      Small-scale roads and bridges in the Province are constructed by the
construction units of the highway department of each city or county. The
Engineering Highway Bureau of HPCD is respons._ble for the construction of large-
and medium-sized highways and bridges. HGHCA io responsible for the manage-
ment and construction of high-standard roads. Since the State Planning Com-
mission directed that all major civil works are to be awarded after competi-
tive bidding, many of the larger construction divisions are being reorganized
into financially independent contracting companies and have been awagdJ t,.'aL
tracts either individually or as partners in joint ventures on previous Bank-
financed highway projects. Thus, the construction units under the Engineering
Bureau of HPCD can taki part in bidding within and outside Henan Province,
whereas the construction units under the highway departments of various cities
can participate in transregional bidding activities organized by HPCD. Con-
tractors for all the contract sections involved in the Raifeng-Zhengzhou
Expressway (constructed by local funds) were selected through prequalification
and LCB. Contractors for the continuation of this expressway to Luoyang (to
be financed under the proposed project) will be selected through prequalifica-
tion and ICB (paras. 3.50 and 3.60).
2.29      Maintenance of highways and bridges is conducted by the highway
departments of the concerned cities and counties. Maintenance is well orga-
nized and is carried out well, but mainly through laboe-intensive operations.
Consequently, maintenance has generally been adequate, and HPCD estimates that
in 1990, about 85 percent of the national and provincial roads were considered
in good condition. The corresponding figure for county and village roads Was
about 75 percent. During 1985-90, expenditures for routine maintenance and
periodic maintenance averaged about Y 6,000 and Y 8,000 per km per year,
respectively, for Class I roads, Y 4,000 and Y 3,000 for Class II and III
roads and Y 29000-3,000 and Y 2,000 for Class IV and village roads (Table
2.8).  These figures are comparable to the corresponding ones in other prov-
inces in China and generally have resulted in a reasonable standard of highway
maintenance. However, expenditures for maintenance (routine and periodic) as
a percentage of total expenditurea for highway purposes in Henan Province have
decreased from about 32 percent in 1985 to about 14 percent in 1990. During
this period, traffic increased rapidly and truck loads also increased. How-
ever, expenditures for road rehabilitation have increased from about 33 per-
cent in 1985 to about 44 percent in 1990, thus helping reduce the need for
maintenance. Expenditures for new construction and improvement stayed rela-
tively constant at about 16-18 percent of the total. HPCD is aware that con-
tinuation of the existing trends (emphasis on construction, upgrading and
rehabilitation at the expnse of maintenance) would lead to deterioration of
the existing network. HPCD has stated its concern with this issue and its
intention of increasing resources to maintenance, possibly through raising the
road maintenance feel HPCD also will look into increasing the efficiency in
the allocation and use of the available funds. Under the project, the plan-
ning and execution of both routine and periodic maintenance would be improved.
Basic maintonnce equipment for rural and provincial roads would be provided
In addition to the equipment required for the operation and maintenance of the
Expressway (paras. 3.21 and 3.22). Also, training would be provided to per-
sonnel involved in the management and execution of maintenance activities



- 22 -
(para. 3.30). In addition, the equipment to be provided under the project to
support the Road Data Bank (RDB) and Pavement Management System (PNS) would
help in preparing better road maintenance programs (para. 3.22).
B. Staff-Trianins
2.30      The staff of HPCD, prefectural, city and county highway departments
are in general professionally competent, but many have not been exposed to new
technology and therefore often use outmoded work methods and equipment. HPCD
at-ff     boenefitted from the training done by HOC and that provided by the
Henan Provincial Highway Institute and the Henan Provincial Vocational School.
The former is the only secondary technical school under the administration of
HPCD that trains and provides intermediate level technical and management
personnel for HPCD and related agencies in the various prefectures, cities and
township. in the fields of highways and bzidges, automobile operation and
servicing, highway transportation and management and highway transportation
accounting. The latter (vocational school) is the only vocational school
under the administration of HPCD. It trains junior middle-school graduates
for three years in the areas of automobile operation, automobile servicing,
highway engineering and management of transport by motor vehicles   In addi-
tion, it provides in-service training for staff of the communication agencies
of the province. Since it started operations in 1986, it has graduated about
3,100 students.
2.31      The proposed project will support the training efforts of HPCD by:
(a) providing training to personnel of HAB (and its branches in the prefec-
tures, cities and counties) and HGHCA in the fields of highway planning,
design, construction, maintenance and operation; and (b) strengthening the
Highway Institute and the Vocational School as well as the Planning and Design
Institute, Scientific Research Institute and HONCA through training of their
staff and provision of modern equipment.
I.  Highwav  Develonment In the KLhth FYP
2.32      The 8th FYP (1991-95) envisages an important development of the
province's highway system. The Plan will give priority to the road projects
falling in the following categoriess
(a) trunk roads, including the sections, which lie in Henan Province of
the national N-S Beijing-Guangshou and the E-W Lianyungang-Urumqi
corridors and other national and provincial roads that are severely
congested, or otherwise are reaching the end of their economic life;
(b)  road sections that have become part of urban areas;
(c) roads linking Henan with other provinces, particularly the roads in
Henan that are inferior to the connecting sections in the neighbor-
ing provinces;
(d) roads dastroyed or severely damaged by floods in recent years; and
(a)  roads serving poverty aroe.



- 23 -
2.33      The Plen targets some Y 4.25 billion for road construction, rehabil-
itation and maintenance during the five-year period, or about Y 850 million
annually (Table 2.8). This amount, which is 27 percent larger in real terms
than the allocation under the previous plan, would be applied to carry out the
following program.
    New construction of expressway and Class I roads            305 km
*    New construction and improvement of Class II roads          466 km
*    Upgrading of Class III and Class IV roads                 1,500 km
*    Upgrading/rehabilitation of Class IV and substandard    1,000 km
2.34      The 8th FYP Plan foresees an increase of 62 percent in the amount
allocated to maintenance relative to the allocation under the 7th Plan (Table
2.8).  All road construction, rehabilitation and improvement included under
the proposed project are part of the Province's 8th FTP.



- 24 -
II1. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Formulation and Preyaratil.n
3.1       The proposed project is part of an increasing effort by the World
Bank, in agreement with the Government, to provide assistance to inland,
lesser developeds provinces. Highway projects, with their institutional and
province-wide physical coverage, are particularly apt to contribute to provin-
cial economic and social development, and to the strengthening of the adminis-
trative, planning and management structures of the sector.
3.2       The support of highway development in Henan is particularly impor-
tant in light of the province's national strategic transport location, in
addition to its own infrastructure development requirements. One of its key
transport corridors, the east-west Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-Luoyang route, an essen-
tial part of a major 1,573 km national road linking the port of Lianyungang in
Jiangsu province with Tianshui, in economically depressed Gansu province, had
been identified in the 6th FYP as a national investment priority. A feasibil-
ity study in 1986, and its subsequent revision and updating, confirmed the
importance of this route. The State Council approved the project among the
top priorities to be started in the 1990s. The Expressway proposal was also
analyzed, and found to be satisfactory, as part of Highway Screening Missions
conducted by the Bank in 1989 and 1990, which reviewed several major road
investment schemes submitted by MOC. Construction of the section Raifeng-
Zhengzhou was started early in 1991 under provincial and central government
financing. The Bank is also considering to assist, through a subsequent proj-
ect, in the construction of the north-south national route Zhengzhou-Hubei
Province border.
3.3       The proposed project was prepared under the directives of the Henan
Provincial Communications Department, with the guidance of the State Planning
Commission (SPC) and MOC. Following earlier discussions, an identification
mission that visited Henan in April 1991 and two subsequent missions formu-
lated and prepared the present project in close collaboration with HPCD, SPC
and MOC.
B. Proiect Ob1ectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4       The main objectives to be pursued under the project are:
(a)  improving Henan's road network, with a particular focus on:
(i) relieving congestion in the East-West Corridor, the province's
most trafficked route and a key link between Henan and other
provinces with the new port of Lianyungang;
(ii) rehabilitating and expanding the provincial network, whose
traffic is rising significantly as a result of Henan's sus-
tained economic growth and increasing short-haul freight diver-
sion from the railway; and
(iii) improving rural roads mainly in poverty areas.



- 25 -
(b)  reinforcing the Henan Provincial Communications Department's capac-
ity for planning and managing the highway system, through comprehen-
sive training, strengthening of five key agencies of HPCD, and pro-
viding equipment maintenance for the highway network and operation
of the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway; and
(c) making recoimendations for improving efficiency and quality of road
transport services, currently characterized by high costs, little
competition and inadequate industry structure.
3.5       The Bank's assistance strategy for highway development in China
focuses on supporting institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at
modernizing the highway system and its management. The proposed project fits
well with this strategy as it includes clear objectives in these areas. The
project's physical investments will support Henan's 8th FYP highway develop-
ment plan's aims to reduce congestion, provide for a balanced improvement of
the road network and improve road access in poverty areas. The project also
will support recent Bank lending for agricultural development in Henan.
C. Prolect Scope
3.6       The project would include:
(a) Civil Works. This component of the project serves objective (a) of
the project--to improve Henan's road network--and consists of the
followings
Mi)  Construction of a 120-km single carriage 2-lane access con-
trolled expressway between Zhengzhou and Luoyang;
(ii) Rehabilitation and improvement of 5 provincial roads totalling
about 180-km in length and upgrading of 6 rural roads totalling
about 112-km in length in the northwest region of Henan Prov-
incei
(iii)  A province-wide road improvement program comprising the reha-
bilitatior. and improvement of about 740 km of national, provin-
cial, prefectural and rural roads scheduled for implementation
during the 8th FYP Plan; and
(iv) Supervision of construction of the above-mentioned civil works
and training of HPCD staff in the supervision and quality con-
trol of highway construction.
(b) Rauivment for Hi&hwav Maintenance and Ooerations. This component
serves objective (b) of the projecz and consists of the following:
(i) Equipment for maintenance and operation, monitoring and test-
ing, and environmental monitoring of the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-
Luoyang Expressway; and



- 26 -
(ii) Equipment for maintenance of roads, monitoring and testing, and
application of the pavement management systeau (PMS) and road
data bank (RDB).
(c) Institutional Strengthening and Trainina. Thie component servee
objective (b) of the project and consists of strengthening of five
institutions affiliated with HPCD by providing modern equipment and
training of their key staff.
(d) Training. This component serves objective (b) of the project and
consists of training of staff of the HGHCA and HAB and its divisions
at the local levels in specific areas related to highway planning,
design, construction and maintenance.
(e) Trucking Study. This component serves objective (c) of the project--
improving efficiency and quality of road transport services--and.
consists of a study of the trucking industry in Henan Province and
ways of improving its efficiency.
3.7       Construction of the ZhenAzhou-Luovang Eaxresswav.  The existing
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Road between Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan's Province,
with 5.4 million population, and Luoyang, the moat populous area of the Prov-
ince with a population of 5.7 million, is about 169-km long and traverses
populated and industrial and mining aregs, with particularly heavy concentra-
tions in the cities of XZnxiang, Shangjie, Gongxian and Yanshi. The existing
road forms a part of National Route 310. The total length of the road which
lies in towns is about 37 km, or about 22 percent of the total. In addition,
there are about 40 spots of poor sight distance with a total length of about 5
km. The existing road was improved during 1985-87 to Class II and Class III
standards.  The pavement is g-eri.lly 9-12 m wide (and some bridges are only 7
m wide), which does not allow iot separation of the motorized and slow moving
traffic along a significant length of the road. Moreover, the pavement struc-
ture is generally weak. Conseq-.ntly, travel speeds are generally low. The
recent high increases in traffic and the expected future growth cannot be
accommodated by the existing road beyond 1995 at an acceptable level of ser-
vice. The widening of the existing road would not be feasible along most of
its length because of the extensive side development, the consequent high
numbers of people to be resettled and the related high construction costs.
3.8       For reasons outlined above, the feasibility of the construction of
the Zhengzhou-Luoyang highway was investigated along a new alignment as a part
of the road between Kaifeng and Luoyang. A feasibility study for the highway
was carried out by HPCD's Design Institute and covered the investigation of
five alternative routings for a new highway. The recommended alignment is
located to the north of the Longhai Railroad and to the south of the Yellow
River (Map IBRD 23487). Also, it Is generally about 5-10 km north of the main
cities along the existing road, thus reducing the number of people to be
resettled and providing space for these cities to expand in the future.
3.9       The proposed Expressway would be about 120 km long, consisting of
two paved lanes, each 3.75 m wide, and two shoulders at 1.5 m wide. However,
in the areas of interchanges and grade separations, long bridges and in some
embankment sections and sections where the ground has to be cut, the Express-



- 27 -
way would be designed to a 4-lane standard, as designated in the national
goometric atandards for highways (Table 1.7). The total length of the
Expressway with four lanes is about 35 km, of wiahh about 15 km would be ini-
tially constructed under this project. This design is a cost-effective solu-
tion that allows controlled access while keeping road width, and therefore9
costs, to a minimum. The standards have been reviewed by Bank staff and
experts from the Finnish National Road Administration (FINNRA) engaged by the
Bank under the Finnish Consultant Trust Fund and are considered appropriate.
The highway traverses difficult topography in the Gongxian section where tun-
nels and a viaduct have to be provided, and about 5 km of the Expressway are
to be built on soft soils that require special treatment. Also, the last 20
ku of the Expressway before Luoyang are located in an area of archeological
importance, which would.require special care during construction. Accass to
and from the new highway would be provided at 8 interchanges. The Expressway
also includes 24 grade separations, 9 long bridges, 18 medium-sized bridges,
15 small bridgeo, 2,236 m of tunnels, 165 underpasses to provide access to
adjacent property and 233 culverts. Asphalt pavements are used throughout
most of the Expressway. The pavement structure consists of a 4 cm asphalt
concrete surfaco, 11 cm asphalt base, 1 cm asphalt sand seal, 15 cm lime fly
ash stabilized base course, and 40 cm lime stabilized soil subbase. The
Expressway would be operated as a closed toll facility.
3.10      In addition to roadway construction, the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Express-
way includest (a) construction of three service areas (about 6,200 m2) at
Liylin (Zheng:hou), Shihuiwu (Gonxian) and Luoyang that provide facilities for
fuel pumping, vehicle repair, restaurants, parking and rest area, and commer-
cial centers; (b) facilities for administration and maintenance of the
Expressway (about 30,000 n); and (c) electrical, electronic and mechanical
installations required for toll collection, traffic monitoring telecommunica-
tions, and lighting of major bridges, interchanges and tunnels. Land for all
of the service areas and facilities for the operation and maintenance of the
Expressway has been acquired but only tbe three service areas mentioned above
will be constructed initially, with the remaining smaller service areas (near
interchanges) to be constructed in the future as the need arises.
3.11      The preliminary and final engineering designs for the Expressway
were completed by HPDI, and following internal procedures, the preliminary
design was approved by MOC in 1991. These designs and the related bid docu-
ments were reviewed by experts from FINNRA and were found to be satisfactory.
Bank staff reviewed the same and concurred with the conclusions of FINNRA
xperts.
3.12      The opening of the Expressway would bring a significant increase in
traffic to the roads connecting it to the main cities along the existing road.
Some of these roads have been recently upgraded and HPCD has plans to improve
the remaining ones, with a total length of about 42 km before 1995. The
bridges at interchanges allow for four lanes which is adequate to accommodate
traffic requirements for 20 years after the opening of the Expressway to traf-
fic.
3.13      Constr uction of Provincial and Rural Roads in Northwest Henan.  This
component consists of the rehabilitation and improvement of five provincial
roads and six rural roads in the northwest region of Henan Province. All the



- 28 -
necessary engineering and economic studies, as well as bid documents have been
completed for these roads. On this basis, these roads are included as a sepa-
rate component of the proposed project, rather than under the roads improve-
mont program. Theae roads and their lengths are listed below:
Technical
standard of
Length (km)   proposed improvement
Provincial Roads
1.  Sanmenxia-Border Road                        94.9                II
2. Luoyang-Luoyang Yellow River
Bridge Road                                19.5                II
3. Mengxiang-Qinyang Road                        31.6                II
4.  Jiaozuo-Mengxian Road                        25.7                II
5.  Sanjiaokou - Border Road                      8.1               III
Total                                       179.8
Rural Roads
1.  Xinang County:  Entrance-Schungqiao          18.2               III
2. Xianang Countys  Taipingkou-Doyle Road        19.0              lII
3. Jlyuang City: Wangwu-Xiaye Road               18.6                IV
4.  Jiyuang City:  Liuzhuang-Nihetou Road        23.2                IV
5. Huixian City:  Beizhai-Nangpin Road            14.4               IV
6.  Huixiang City:  Gaozhuang-Hankou Road        18.1                IV
Total                                      11..5
The design and bid documents for these roads were prepared by the respective
local highway administrations and reviewed by HPCD. The design and bid docu-
ments for one of the provincial roads were reviewed by the 1INNRA experts and
were found to be adequate and form an acceptable basis for soliciting bids.
Improvements to these roads include widening, strengthening of pavements,
realignment of some sections, reducing number and curvature of curves and
vertical grade.
3.14      Road Imorovement Prosram.  As noted in Chapter II, Henan's highway
network is small and of low standards. As the traffic level, and the impor-
tance of heavy freight vehicles, have grown at a high pace and are expected to
continue this trend in the future, the inadequacy of the network is rapidly
becoming a major constraint to Henan's development. To reverse this situa-
tion, Henan authorities have targeted a substantial increase in overall spend-
ing on highways during the 8th PYP, 1991-95.



- 29 -
3.15      The proposed Road Improvement Program (RIP) component of the pro-
posed project is intended to assist in the financing, design and implementa-
tion of roads development and improvement included in the current plan. Over-
all, Henan has in the past adopted a conservative policy of highway invest-
ment, and there is no evidence in the province of over-designed or premature
investments. The five provincial and six rural roads in northwest Hanan,
whose preparation is now complete and are a separate component of this proj-
ect, confirm the rational economic criteria used in the selection of road
investments.  In light of the high rates of traffic growth, and the poor con-
dition of the network, the overall level of road investment proposed for the
1993-95 period appears reasonable. RIP subprojects to be funded under the
project will be carefully screened (para. 3.16 and Annex 1).
3.16      The roads to be included under the RIP program will have to meet
several criteria to be approved for inclusion and to receive funding under the
project. Such criteria consist of:
(a) an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of at least 12 percent--it is
expected that most RIP subprojects will have an ERR substantially
higher;
(b) follow HOC engineering standards (Table 1.7), and sound engineering
and highway safety practices;
(c) comply with environmental and resettlement requirements, similar tc
the other road components financed under this project; and
(d) contracts for execution of the road subprojects would follow pro-
curement procedures as detailed in para. 3.63.
3.17      The RIP will be implemented in phases, and HPCD is expected to sub-
mit several road proposal packages for Bank approval during implementation of
the project. An iniial list of candidate subprojects, part of the first
package to be financed under the RIP component (Table 3.1) agreed at negotia-
tions comprises five proposals for improvement of existing roado (total of 159
km). Selection of the remaining subprojects under the first package (four
roads and two bridges totalling 81 km) is expected to be completed upon sub-
mission by HPCD, by December 31, 1992, of a reassessment of the subprojects'
economic returns (An_nex1, Appendix).
3.18      Suuervilsion of Construction of Exoressway. Although independent
supervision of construction contracts is gaining general acceptance in China,
local staff still have only limited experience in the supervision of major
highway works, particularly those awarded under ICB conditions. Based on the
experience gained from ongoing Bank financed highway projects in other prov-
inces, a combined team of local engineers, technicians and other personnel and
foreign consultants would be set up to supervise the construction of the
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway. The organizational arrangements for i-he con-
struction supervision of the Expressway as well as the Terms of Reference for
the joint supervision team have been drawn up by HGHCA and found by Bank staff
to be adequate. The foreign supervising engineers would be integrated into
the organization with operational responsibilities. Purthermore, the foreign
consultants would help establish procedures at all levels of the supervisory



- 30 -
work, including on-site inspections and laboratory teoting, ani train local
staff both through formal training sessions and on-the-job. About 110 man-
months of foreign consultant services are envisaged for construction supervi-
sion and related staff training.
3.19      Sunervision of Construction of Roads in Northwest Henan and RIP. A
separate supervision group would be set up in HPCD in Zhengshou to have over-
all responsibility for supervision of construction of roads in northwest Henan
and RIP. This group will be assisted by four subgroups in Xinxiang, Jiazhou,
Luoyang and Sanmenxian to manage the roads within northwest Henan and by sub-
groups in other key areas to supervise roads included under RIP. However, an
adequate number of qualified personnel will be assigned for the site supervi-
sion of each road. The supervision units will be provided with the necessary
offices, laboratory facilities, transport and surveying instruments. These
groups will be composed of local personnel and are capable of supervising the
works.
3.20      Equipment.  The equipment to be provided under the project has been
identified by HGHCA (with respect to the Expressway) and by HAB (with resopect
to other roads) and reviewed by the appraisal mission. The final agreed lists
of equipment together with their estimated costs are available in the project
files. These lists include equipment for the Expressway and equipment for the
maintenance of roads in Henan Province. However, such lists should be looked
at as subject to reasonable change with regard to type and number, and conse-
quently, some flexibility should be exercised during project implementation to
properly allow for changing circumstances and needs.
3.21      Equipment for the Expresswa.  To set up and efficiently operate a
central laboratory in support of the construction supervision activities,
there is a need for equipment and instruments, perticularly for soils and
asphalt concrete testing. In the course of drawing up en Environmental Action
Plan (EAP), the equipment and instruments required to implement the environ-
mental Drotection measures have been identified. For the operation and main-
tenance of the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway, equipment requirements
have also been identified. This equipment is in addition to the site labora-
tory equipment and surveying instruments to be provided by the contractors for
the civil works and the toll collection, surveillance and comnunication equip-
ment to be provided by the contractor for the electrical/mechanical works for
the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway.
3.22      Eguinment for RIP. Northwest Henan Roade and Maintenance of Roads.
This equipment consists of urgently required equipment for routine, periedic
maintenance and heavy repair of roads to replenish the equipment fleet of the
prefectural and county maintenance units; equipment for supervision of con-
struction and testing of roads included in RIP and northwest Honan; equipment
for application of the road data bank and pavement management system; and
equipment for environmental monitoring of roads included in northwest Henan.
3.23      Institutional Strenathenins.  The institutional strengthening to be
provided under the proposed project consists of helping a new agoncy (High-
Grade Highway Construction Authority) that will be In charge of the Zhengzhou-
Luoyang Expressway and other high class roads in Henan Province and four
existing autonomous, nonline agencies of HPCD. Two of these agencies (Highway



- 31 -
Institute and Higlhway Vocational School) are training institutes and helping
them has a multiplier effect embodied in better trainees who in turn will help
HPCD carry out its responsibilities better. Strengthening of the third agency
(Scientific Research Institute) is focused on quality conitrol of highways and
bridges, environmental issues and a newly created department of transport
economics. Institutional strengthening of the fourth agency (Planning and
Design Institute) aims at making it function as an effective consulting firm.
Overall, environment, transport and enSiueering economics will be the predomi-
nant subject areas to be targeted for strengthening. In general, these agen-
cies have relatively good staff but they have not been exposed to the recent
advances in the highway field. Also, some of their equipment is obsolete and
needs replacement. In addition, new equipment will be required for new or
recent areas of activities. Consequently, the proposed project concentrates
on both training (inside China and abroad) of the utaff of these agencies and
their equipment needs. Each of these agencies prepared good proposals for
institutional development which were in turn reviewed by the preappraisal and
appraisal missions and found to be satisfactory. Those proposals formed the
basis for the description and composition of this project component as summa-
rized in the following paragraphs.
3.24      Hlghwav Institute.  The Highway Institute is a oecondary technical
school that offers training in highways and bridges, automobile operation and
servicing, highway transportation management and highway transportation
accounting (Chart 3). Prosently, this institute has an enrollment of 868
students and a staff of 198. The institute is funded by the Provincial Educa-
tion Commission (Y 1,125/student/year) to cover operating costs and by annual
appropriations by HPCD to meet the development needs of the institute. The
skills of the institute's staff need to be improved. Also, the institute does
not have sufficient equipment and some of the existing equipment is outdated.
The proposed project will help meet these deficiencies by providing:
(a) training to the staff of the institute, especially in the areas of traffic
engineering, environmental protection, transport economics and use and mainte-
nance of precision measurement instrumonts, for a total of about 11 person-
months, 5 person-months of which would be abroad; and (b) modern equipment for
economic analyses, highways and bridges especially for geodetic surveying and
quality control purposes, and automobile testing to increase safe performance
of motor vehicles and traffic safety.
3.25      Vocational School.  This school was established in 1986 and gradu-
ates intermediate level technicians in the areas of automobile operation,
automobile servicing, transport management and highway construction (Chart 4).
It has an enrollment of about 670 students and a staff of about 210. The
school does not have enough trucks or simulators for teaching how to drive.
Also, it does not have enough equipment and Instruments for testing the
mechanical and electrical performance of vehicles. Moreover, the school does
not have enough bighway construction equipment and lacks training models of
road grading, rolling and surfacing equipment. In addition, the school is -in
need of modern computers and video recording equipment. The proposed project
helps meet these equipment deficiencies in addition to providing six person-
months of experts to train the trainers at the school in the use of the new
equipment to be provided.



- 32 -
3.26      Scientific Research Institute (HSRI).  HSRI was established in 1981.
It carries out research and development of new technology, including new mate-
rials, now techniques and new products in respect of auitomobiles, highway
transportation, highway engineering, bridgw engineering anc machinery for
construction and maintenance of roads (Chart 5). It performs structural cal-
culations by computer, automobile testing, highway and bridge testing and
performs transportation planning studies. It has a staff of 80. Since 1989,
it changed from an institute relying on government appropriated funds to one
offering technical services for a fee. To further reinforce this trend the
proposed project aims at upgrading the skills of some of the key staff by
providing 5 person-months of training abroad and 4 person-months of' training
inside China in the areas of highway and bridge testing, automobile teiting
and transport economics (Annex 2). Also, the proposed project helps meet
HSRI's needs for additional equipment and instruments for: (a) quality con-
trol testing of bridges and highways; (b) automobile testing station, espe-
cially an engine performance analyzer, chassis performance tester, noncontact
speedometer; and (c) transport economics, especially computers. Staff will be
trained in the use of the advanced instruments and equipment to be procured
under the project. HSRI will be in charge of the trucking study under this
project (para. 3.32) and this will further strengthen HSRI's capabilities in
transport economics.
3.27      Pl_annina and Design Inst,swte (HPDI).  This institute is the only
institute in Henan Province that offers professional services in the area of
feasibility studies, planning, surveying, designing and geotechnical studies
of roads and bridges (Chart 6). It has the highest ranking certificates
(Grade A) from HOC in engineering design and geotechnical studies. It pre-
pared the feasibility, design and bid documents for the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-
Luoyang Expressway. It has a staff of about 300, of whom 16 are senior engi-
neers, 70 are engineers and 125 are assistant engineers. The financial
sources of the institute are the income it derives from the professional ser-
vices it renders, both inside and outside Henan. Hence, HPDI approximates a
consulting engineering firm. To help it become one, the project will assist
HPDI in improving its managerial and marketing capability and its technical
capacity in the areas of photogrametric surveys and transportation economics.
The project includes training abroad for two HPDI staff members in engineering
econcmics and project analysis and domestically for two highway design engi-
neers, two engineers in highway and bridge computer-aided design software and
two surveyors in aerial mapping. The total training effort amounts to about
42 person-months. The project will supply HPDI with advanced highway design
software, computers and photogrametric survey equipment to help it carry out
its work faster and better.
3.28      High-Grade Highwav  Construction Authority (HGHCA).  This agency of
HPCD (Chart 2) was established in 1990 and is in charge of construction and
management of the Kaifeng-Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway 'para. 2.20), the first
expressway in the province &ad this is the right time to get HGHCA on the
right track by giving it the needed support. The proposed project will pro-
vide about 60 person-months of training to some of the staff of HGHCA in the
areas of project management, contract management, pavement construction, traf-
fic engineering, operation of toll roads, finance and accounting. Also, the
proposed project will provide HOGCA with modern office equipment communication



- 33 -
facilities and transport vehicles *o as to enable it to effectively manage the
construction of ehe Kaifeng-Zh.ngzhou-Luoyang Expressway.
3.29      TraininQ.  Training to be provided under the project consists of
three kinds: (a) comprehensive training; (b) supervision training; and
(c) training connected with institutional strengthening. In total, the proj-
ect provides for training to about 355 people for 390 person-months, of which
122 people will be trained for 132 person-months outside China (Annex 2). The
training program shown in Annox 2 should be looked at as subject to reasonable
change with regard to training courses, number of trainees and duration of
training, and consequently, some flexibility should be exercised during proj-
ect implementation to allow for changing circumstances and needs. Supervision
training consists of training engineers in China for a total of 130 person-
months and 30 people outside of China for a total of 30 person-months. This
training is included in the supervision component of the project. Training
under institutional strengthening consists of training for 76 people for a
total of about 122 person-months and its cost is reported within the cost of
the institutional training component. This section deals with comprehensive
training only.
3.30      The comprehensive training program was prepared by HPCD and was
reviewed by the appraisal mission and found to be satisfactory. It consists
of about 108 person-months of training, comprisingt (a) inspection tours
abroad for 40 senior personnel for a total of 20 man-months; (b) medium-term
training abroad for 21 people for a total of 30 person-months; and (c) domes-
tic training for 58 people for a total of 58 person-months (Annex 2). The
main training courses includet pavement construction, project management,
materials testing, especially asphalt, traffic engineering operation of toll
roads, highway maintenance, road data bank and pavement management systems,
management and utilization of equipment and financial management and account-
ing. As with ongoing Bank-financed provincial highway projects, the highway-
related training program for provincial staff would be coordinated by TCU of
HOC in the interest of consistency, efficiency and economy. The training
courses would be programed in consultation with PTDs and the implementation
administered by TCU. Because of the large size and diversity of the training
component, HPCD has agreed to strengthen its Education Department (which is in
charge of training) so that it can successfully implement this training pro-
gram. Training abroad would be preceded by training within China with the
best performers selected for training abroad. Also, all trainees to be sent
abroad would have a good working knowledge of English or else would take a
three-month English language course prior to traveling abroad. At negotia-
tions. agreement was reached that the training. both comprehensive and con-
nected with institutional strengthening. would be carried out in accordance
with iro rams accentable to the Bank.
3.31      Truckint Study.  The proposed trucking study would help Henan Prov-
ince identify reasons behind the poor quality of road freight services, their
high coots, and shipper.' lack of confidence in public carriers resulting in
increasing purchase of freight transport equipment by industrial and commer-
cial enterprises. The study would also make recommendations to tackle the
main problems identified. This study would be part of the provincial-based
studies of highway sector issues, to be supported by Bank highway projects, as
agreed between HOC and the bank. The study would be expected to be useful to



- 34 -
other provinces, *ince the economic framework of trucking is relatively simi-
lar among provinces.
3.32      The study would cover the following areas:  role of the government
agencies; laws and regulations; fiscal conditional corporate structures;
freight forwarding; transport volume levels; equipment; technical regulations;
tariffs; marketing and sales; fuel; maintenance and repair of equipment; and
training. The study would be conducted in two phases, the first basically for
a diagnosis of the trucking industry and aervic*s, and the second to prepare
recommendations for improving their efficiency and quality. A review panel,
comprising provincial and central government agencles, and the Bank, will
review the report. on completion of the first phase and will provide guidance
for the scope and direction of the Second Phase. The review panel will also
review the Phase II report, with a view to fast implementation of the report's
recommendations. The study, which will be conducted by the Henan Scientific
Resoarch Institute with assistance from foreign consultants to be financed
under the project, is expected to last one year. Draft Terms of Reference for
the study are in Annex 3 At negotictions. aareement was reached that Henan
Province will: (a) bv December 31. 1994. undertake and complete the truckint
studv in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (b) by
March 31. 1993. establigh a review panel comprisint renresentatives of the
Bank. the central soverzment and Henan Province for, the ournose of reviewing
the results and recommendations of the studyt (c) upon completion of the
truckina study. aubmit it to the review panel for its comments: and (d) take
ga2rooriate steps to imlement the recommendations of the studt  takina into
agecount the comments made by the review panel.
D. Environmental Assessment
3.33      Zhenazhou-Luoyana Expresswa.  An environmental assessment (EA) was
prepared for the proposed Kaifeng-Luoyang Expressway by the Henan Provincial
Environmental Research Institute, and submitted for GOC environmental review
in June 1989. The EA identified several areas of the proposed expressway as
having potentially significant impact on the environment. The most important
of these impacts were related to archeological issues, noise, dust, traffic
and social disruption during road construction and noise during operation of
the Expressway. An environmental action plan (EAP) was prepared identifying
methods to eliminate or mitigate these impacts on the environment during the
construction and operation of the Expressway and the organizational and moni-
toring arrangements. The engineering design and the technical specifications
for the Expressway incorporate the mitigating measures required, and appropri-
ate arrangements have been made to ensure their compliance during construction
of the Expressway. In particular, the terms of reference for the consultants
who will supervise construction of the Expressway include environmental super-
vision. Also, equipment for envirormental monitoring are provided under the
project (para. 3.21) and will be procured early during implementation of the
project (par&. 3.55). The ZAP was reviewed during project appraisal and was
found to be satisfactory. In particular, it complies vith the Bank's policy
on the preservation of archeological sites. A summary of the main finding, of
th EL and ZAP is pr-esnted in Annex 4, and copies of the EA and RAP reports
are available in the Project File. Agreement was reached at nexotiations wlth
the HPG tha*. -he envlronmental orotection measure- stloulated in the RAP with



- 35 -
respect to the Zhenashou-Luoyana Hxnresew v would be carried out In a manner
satisfactory to tha Bank.
3.34      Provincial and Rural Roadg In Northwest Henan and Road Imnrovement
Progrm. Since most of the works under these two project components would
involve upgrading of facilities, rehabilitation and maiutenance of smaller
roads, thoy are not expected to have a significant impact on the environment.
Neverthelos,, the potential for any adverso effect of each subproject on the
environment will be fully assessed.
3.35      Of the 11 provincial and rural roads In northwest Ronan, only one,
which runs from the Sanmenxia town to the Shaanxi provincial border, will
require significant construction on a new alignment. An EA and CAP wore pre-
pared for this section of new alignment by the Henan Provincial Zivironmental
Ressarch Institute. The EA and HAP for this provincial road were reviewed
during appraisal and found to be satisfactory.
3.36      Under the RIP component, the process of subproject identification,
prioritization and preparation of road subproject will be programmatic, and
essentially continuous over the loan implementation period. As such, only the
first of several batches of subprojects was available by loan negotiations.
The HAB is completing preparation of a Sectoral EnvironmAntal Asseesment (SEA.
that will address the kinds of environmental Impacts expected from each type
of subproject (i e , road widening, pavement improvement, resurfacing, etc.)
supported under the RIP component of the project. The SE will include a
screening process for identifying subprojects that might require a full sub-
project specific Rh and HAP, a sectoral environmental action plan for subproj-
ects that do not require a subproject specific HA, and an evaluation/appr'wal
process that will include Bank review of the environmental documents prepared
for all subprojects that will be submitted for funding during project imple-
mentation. HAB has prepared a preliminary SEA, and a complete SEA is expected
to be submitted to the Bank by November 30, 1992.
3.37      For subprojects with an established risk of adverse impact on the
environment, as identified by the screening process being developed by the
SEA, a subproject-specific EA would be conducted and an ZAP prepared. For
subprojects for which the onvironmental screening established that there is no
potential environmental risk, the appropriate elements of the Sectoral Envi-
ronmental Action Plan would be applied with regard to the actions to be taken
in the design and implementation. These actions would be sumarized in an
abbreviated subproject specific H&P thit would be attached to the project
preparation documents submitted to the Bank for approval prior to inclusion of
the subproject in the lending program. Astreemnt wao reached at neaotiations
with the HPG that for the 2rovincial and rural roads in northwest Henan and
for each subt2nect of the RIP that the environmental urotection measures
stioulated In the "Zs would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the
lAnk.
S. Land Acqulition and Resettlemn,t
3.38      Zhentzhou-Luovang exresway. The Land Administration Law of the
PRC and Henan Provincial Land Administration Regulations are the legal basis
fQr the planning and implementation of land acquisition and resettlement for



- 36 -
any land acquisition required for the project. The following two provincial
documents are also applied when land acquisition li initiated:
(a) Implementation methods of "The Law of Land Management of Henan Prov-
ince"; and
(b) No. 113 (1991) Document of Henan Administration of the People's
Government of Henan Province: "The Circular on Printing and Issuing
Compensation Standards of Land Acquisition for State Construction of
Henan Province."
3.39      Land acquisition and resettlement is well regulated in China and the
procedures and compensation standards, in general, conform to the Bank's poli-
cies on involuntary resettlement. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for tho
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway has been prepared by HGHCA and reviewed by Bank
staff and found to be satisfactory. Land acquisition and resettlement will
affect 117 administrative villages in 21 townships. Approximately 4,408
households or 17,245 people will be affected by the project and will be com-
pensated and resettled. The resettlement process is implemented by the local
governments at city, county, township and village levels in accordance with
the terms and agreements signed between HG8CA and the respective local govern-
ments and the land bureaus. Land replacement is provided through reallocation
of land within the same villages, any surplus labor is absorbed into village
or township enterprises. Resettlement in some areas has already comsenced,
and it is expected that resettlement along the highway alignment will be com-
pleted by March 1993.
3.40      A summary of the RAP for the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Highway and its sta-
tus is presented in Annex 5 A copy of the RAP is available 4n the project
file which has been reviewed by Bank staff and found to be &..tisfactory. At
neaotiations. aareement was reached with the IGECA that all land acouisition
and reset.lement activities &ad monitorinat of resettlement with respect to the
Zhengzhou-Luovan2 Highwav would be com2leted accordint to the RAP in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.41      Provincial and Rural Roads in Northwest Henan.  Resettlement Action
Plans were prepared for five provincial roads (four of which require land
acquisition and resettlement) and six rural road projects in northwest Henan.
Approximately 430 households and 2,120 people will be affected by the rural
roads and 596 households and 2,754 people will be affected by the provincial
roads development program.
3.42      Land acquisition, resettlement and monitoring of resettlement for
the provincial and rural roads development program will be carried out in the
same manner as for the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Highway, with the respective local
governments responsible for implementation of resettlement plans. At negotia-
tions. areement was reached that theso activities would be comDleted accord-
inx to the RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.43      Road Imorovement Protram. As this is a programmatic component where
subprojects will be defined during lmplementation, a reliable estimate of the
people affected by the various subprojects in RIP ca,not be made at this
stage. However, an understanding was reached with during project preparation



- 37 -
that the land acquisition, resettlement and compensation procedures to be
followed would be the same as that applied for the Expressway, which has been
satisfactory. The respective actions to be taken regarding land acquisition
and resettlement would be outlined in RAPs and correlated with the preparation
of the engineering and evaluation process for the eubproject packages, requir-
ing submission for Bank approval for financing under the project. Aareement
was reached with HPCD at netotiations that RAPs for subnrolects under the RIP
would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.44      The implementation of the RAPs for the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway,
the roads in northwept Henan, and the subprojects included in the RIP would be
monitored through the routine project supervision and quarterly progress
reporting (para. 3.71).. The monitoring of the effectiveness and the socio-
economic impact of resettlement on the population would also be undertaken by
the Land Management Bureau jointly with HGHCA in case of the Expressway and
with HAB In the case of the remaining roads. Atreement was reached with HPCD
at negotiations that: (a) the monitoring teams to be established bv April 30L
1993 would include aualified social ocientists accegtable to the Bankt and (b)
monitorina r-eorts for the Expresawav and other roads would be submitted to
the Bank by December 15. 1993. and by the same date for the followina two
years (1994 and 1995).
F. Cost Estimates
3.45      The project is estimated to cost about Y 1.64 billion or about
$300 million, including land acquisition and physical and price contingencies
as sumnarized below and as detailed in the Project Cost Summary (Table 3.2).
The foreign exchange cost is estimated at about $120 million, or about 40 per-
cent of the total. Base costs are estimated in March 1992 prices. Physical
contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of works and con-
struction supervision of the highway component. Price contingencies have been
calculated for both foreign and local costs, using international annual esca-
lation factors of 2.8 percent in 1992, 3.9 percent in 1993, 3.9 percent in
1994, 3.8 percent in 1995 through 1997 and price escalation factors for the
Yuan of 6.0 percent in 1992, and 5 percent thereafter.
3.46      The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated
from preliminary engineering designs, except that in the case of Section No.
10, the actual price submitted by the successful bidder Was used. The costs
were computed on the basis of MOC's standard manuals for labor and equipment
productivity, the related annually-updated costs and the current market costs
of materials. The unit rates were chocked against the unit prices provided in
recent bids for similar highway works executed under Bank financing. However,
in the case of some of the roads proposed to be included in the Road Improve-
ment Program, costs are based on very preliminary designs.
3.47      The estimated cost of equipment is based on prevailing prices and
those quoted by manufacturers and suppliers and includes the cost of equipment
delivered in Zhenguhou, spare parts and related training if needed to operate
and maintain the equipment. The estimated cost of consulting services is
based on recent contracts for similar services under ongoing highway projects.



- 38 -
PROJECT COST 8ULIARY
($1.0 - Y 5.45, March 1992 prices)
Foreign
costs I
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total of total
----- 1Y mdlion) ------  ----   Million) -----
Works
Zhengshou-Luoyasg Zzpresvay        267.22  267.21   543.43  49.03  49.03   98.06   50.0
Provincial and rural roads In
NW Henan                          122.02   61.98   !84.00  22.39   11.37   33.76   33.7
Road Improvement Program           249.19  150.27   399.46  45.72  27.57   73.29   37.9
Subtotal                       638.43  479.46  1.117.89  117.14  07.97  205.11   42.9
Supervision of construction          12.44    9.15    21.59   2.28   1.68    3.96   42.4
Equipment                            6.72   55.73    62.45   1.24  10.23   11.47   89.2
Institutf.onal strengthening         1.83    9.75    11.58   0.33   1.79    2.12   84.4
Training                             0.52    3.51       4.03   0.09   0.65    0.74   87.8
Trucking Study                       0.59    1.56       2.15   0.24   0.23    0.47   48.9
Total bass cost                660.53  559.16  1.219.69  121.32  102.55  223.87   45.8
Phyblcal contingencies              65.10   48.90   114.00  11.90   9.00   20.90   43.1
Price contingencls                117.61   46.11   163.72  21.59   8.45   30.04   28.1
Land acquIsition & resettlement    141.10    0.00   141.00  25.89   0.00   25.89    0.0
Total orolect cost             984.34  654.17  1.638.51  180.70  120.00  300.70   40.0
G.   financin&
3.48        The Bank loan of $120 million would finance  about 40 percent of the
total project cost or about 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The
Central Government would provide the equivalent of about $37 million while the
Henan Provincial Government would provide th, equivalent of about $144 million
to meot the remainig costs of the project, Including contingencies. The
proposed onlending terms for the loan between the Ministry of Finance and
Henan Provincial Government are: 20 years, Including 5 years of grace, at
75 percent of the rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower with 0.75 percent
per annum commitment fee on the outstanding balance.  Henan Provincial Govern-
ment will bear the foreign exchange risks. The details of project financing
are shown belows



- 39 -
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Component                                      Government          Bank    Total
Province   Central
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway                 12.33      36.70     49.03    98.06
Provincial and rural roads in
northwest Henan                            22.39       0.00     11.37    33.76
Road Improvement Program                     45.72       0.00     27.57    73.29
Supervision                                   2.28       0.00      1.68     3.96
Equipment                                     1.24       0.00     10.23    11.47
Institutional strengthening                   0.33       0.00      1.79     2.12
Training                                      0.09       0.00      0.65     0.74
Trucking study                                0.24       0.00      0.23     0.47
Contingencies                                33.49       0.00     17.45    50.94
Resettlement and land acquisition            25.89       0.00      0.00    25.89
Total                                  144.00     36.70    120.00   300.70
Z of total cost                              48.0       12.2      39.9    100.0
H. Implementation
3.49      Imnlementint Aaencies.  The implementation of the project would be
the responsibility of HPCD. HGNCA would be the executing agency for implemen-
tation of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway including its construction, Super-
vision, equipment to operate and maintain the Expressway and for monitoring
and testing environmental protection. Also, EGaCA would be in charge of pro-
curing equipment for its own institutional strengthening. The Highway Admin-
istration Bureau will be the executing agency for provincial and rural roads
in northwest Henan, RIP, equipment for maintenance of provincial and rural
roads including PS and RDB, and equipment for institutional strengthening of
the Highway Institute, the Vocational School, the Scientific Research Insti-
tute and the Planning and Design Institute. The Education Division of HPCD
will be the executing agency for the training, including the part under insti-
tutional development, and NSRI will be the executing agency for the trucking
study. Since the Expressway Is a segment of the national highway network, HOC
wold also provide general supervision and guidance for the execution of the
Expressways.
3.50      gxnressway.  The final engineering design and bid documents for the
Zhengzb.ou-Luoyang Exproseway will be ready for distribution to the prequali-
fied contractors by mid-June 1992. Advertisement to prequalify for contrac-
tors wa9 issued in mid-February 1992, and the prequalification process Is
expected to be completed by mid-June 1992. Acquiring of land and the reset-
tlement process will be completed by March 1993. The construction of the
Exprossway would be carried out under four ICB contracts and one LCB contract
(Section No. 10--21.5 km before Luoyang). Work on the ICB contracts is



- 40 -
expected to start around the beginning of January 1993 and to be completed by
end of June 1996. The LCB format for Section No. 10 was selected because the
Expressway traverses an archaeologically important area whose extent cannot be
defined in advance and is thus not suitable for ICB (pars. 3.62). Work under
the LCB contract started in April 1992 and is expected to be completed by
October 995. The installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical sys-
tems for the operation of the Expressway is scheduled to commence around the
end of 1994 and be completed by the end of March 1996 (Annex 6). The con-
struction of service facilities along the Expressway would be a continuous
operation during the 42-month implementation period.
3.51      Sunervision of Construction of Exnresswaa.  The supervision of con-
struction of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway would be carried out by a joint
local/foreign supervision team headed by a chief supervision engineer with
headquarters in Zhengzhou. There would be a resident engineer on site for
each of the five contract sections reporting to the chief supervision engi-
neer. About 120 local personnel would be permanently engaged in supervision
during construction. The selection of local personnel is underway. However,
in the case of Section No. 10 in the archeological zone, local staff, whose
key members have been trained by MOC and approved by the Bank, have started
supervising the ongoing work. The foreign experts consist of four senior
highway engineers (one to work with the chief supervision engineer, one to
work with the resident engineer for contract sections 6, 7, 8 and one expert
to work with the resident engineers for contract sections 9 and 10, one engi-
neer for the electrical/mechanical contract) and two experts for formal train-
ing of local personnel prior to starting supervision of the sections of the
Expressway to be constructed under ICB arrangements. Terms of reference for
the experts have been finalized and approved by the Bank. Invitations to
short-listed firms were issued in March 1992, and the evaluation of proposals
vas completed by end of July 1992, and a contract with a foreign consultant
was signed in September 1992. Training for local personnel in construction
supervision is expected to commence by the beginning of October 1992. Actual
supervision of construction of the Expressway is expected to start by the
beginning of January 1993 (Annex 6).
3.52      Provincial and Rural Roads in Northwest Henan.  Prequalification of
contractors for construction of provincial roads in northwest Henan started in
May 1992 and is expected to be finished by the end of October 1992. The
design and bid documents for these roads as well as those for the rural roads
in northwest Henan were prepared by local administrations responsible for them
and were reviewed and approved by HPCD. Construction of the provincial roads
in northwest Henan is expected to start in April 1993 and be completed by end
of September 1996 (Annex 6). Construction of the six rural roads in northwest
Henan is expected to start in early 1993 and be completed in about 24 months.
Supervision of construction of provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan
will be conducted by a special group to be set up in Zhengzhou assisted by
four subgroups in Xinxiang, Jiazhou, Luoyang and Sanmenzia. The staff of
these &upervision groups will be local and primarily from local highway
departments. Some of these staff have attended the supetvision training pro-
grams run by HOC.
3.53      LIP.  The relevant design institutes of municipalities and prefec-
tures would be responsible for the preparation of the design and bid documents



- 41 -
for the subprojects under RIP.  These documents would be reviewed by HAB.
Construction of the subprojects included in the first package of the program
is scheduled to commence in 1993 and be completed in 12-30 months. The design
and evaluation of subprojects to be included in subsequent packages of RIP
would be submitted to the Bank for approval sequentially at about 6-9 months
intervals. The program as a whole is scheduled to be completed by the end of
June 1997. Construction of subprojects under RIP would he supervised by the
same group referred to in para. 3.52. This group will uatablish subgroups in
the main cities in the area(s) where the subprojects are ocated, and a site
supervision team would be assigned to each subproject. These subgroups and
related site teams are capable of supervising the works, but their laboratory
testing facilities need strengthening. To remedy this deficiency, laboratory
equipment would be purchased under the project. Also, their needs for trans-
port would be provided under the civil works contracts for the implementation
of RDP. To help increase the effectiveness and coordination -if this supr,. ti-
sion setup, the project provides for purchase of the needed communica"_on
equipment. Details of the RIP program are in Annex 1. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that subDrolects to be included under the RIP   Ald be
selected in accordance with criteria and grocedures satisfactory to the Bank
and would be submitted to the Bank for aDDroval prior to disbursement.
3.54      Training.  Because of the size and scope of the training included in
the project, HPCD will strengthen its education division in charge of this
activity by assigning a bilingual secretary to this division and supplying it
with a computer and related software and office equipment. Formal selection
procedures for candidates to be trained will be developed and agreed to with
the Bank. Those to be trained abroad will be giver three months of English
language training. Each trainee will be required to submit a report on train-
ing received to his/her parent department or agency. Moreover, HPCD has indi-
cated that training to be provided under the project will be related to career
development and the professional growth of the selected staff. The comprehen-
sive training program will be open to all highway staff in the province and
will be centrally administered by HPCD.
3.55      Eauipment for the Expressway.  The responsibility for the procure-
ment of equipment would be divided between the two executing agencies. HGHCA
would be responsible for the procurement of equipment related to the Express-
way component, such as equipment for the central laboratory, environmental
protection and the operation and maintenance of the Expressway. The equipment
of the central laboratory and environmental protection would be procured at an
early stage of project implementation (1993), while that for the operation and
maintenance of the Expressway is scheduled to be procured towards the end of
expressway implementation (late 1995 or early 1996).
3.56      The responsibility for the procurement of equipment related to the
roads in northwest Henan and RIP components of the project would rest with
BAB. The survey and laboratory equipment would be procured at an early stage
of project implementation, followed by procurement of maintenance equipment.
RDB and PMS related equipment is scheduled to be obtained during 1993/94.
3.57      The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed by the middle of
1997 with the loan closing date stipulated as June 30, 1998. The implementa-
tion schedule for the project is presented in Annex 6.



- 42 -
I. Procurement
3.58         Procurement under the project would be carried out as  *hown in the
following tables
Total
Procurement method                   project
Project component                           ICB           LCB         Other           fP         cost
-(----------Simlion) -----------
Works
Zhenguhou-Luoyang Ezpressway              103.93        12.70           5.00            -      120.93
(49.60)      (6.10)         (2.42)                   (58.12)
Provincial and rural roads In
northwest Henn                                        39.35           2.73            _       42.08
(12.61)        (0.87)                   (13.48)
Road Improvement Program                                65.76          25.00            -       90.76
(23.38)        (8.90)                   (32.28)
Eapressway                                  3.86         -              2.60            -        6.46
(3.49)                     (2.32)                    (5.81)
Prov fcial and rural roads                  3.62         -              2.41            -        6.03
(3.20)                     (2.13)                   (5.33)
Intitutlonal strengthening                  0.98         -             0.93             -        1.91
(0.81)                     (0.77)                   (1.58)
Trucking study                              _                           0.09            -        0.09
(0.08)                   (0.08)
Teehncal nad Consultina Services
Supervision of construction of
Expressway                                -            -              4.91            -        4.91
(2.08)                   (2.08)
Institutional strengthening--
training                                  -            -              0.40            -        0.40
(0.36)                   (0.36)
Training                                                 -              0.80            -        0.80
(0.70)                   (0.70)
Truckin  study                                           -              0.44            -        0.44
(0.18)                   (0.18)
Land acoulsltion and nreettlement           -            -              -              25.89    25.89
Total                                111          117.U1         4S.31           A5.89   300.70
t57.10)    (42,091        (20.81)           Q.02) (120.00O
Notet  Figures In parenthe"s  represent the moants finaed by the Bank Group.  All flgures
include estimted physical ad price contingencies but exclude cost of land acqulsition
and resettlement, which is shown as a separate component, and are rounded.
flft Not Dank-finaned.
3.59         The procuroebnt arrangements for tho project have tken  into account
the experience gained from the previous Bank-financod highway project.. The
procurement documentation, Including that for prequalification of contractors,



_ 43 -
ICB and LCB for civil works and goods has re-ently been standardized for
Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese government and the Bank.
The new set of model documentation will be used for all relevant procurement
processes under the project. In particular, prequalification criteria for
civil works under ICB procedures have been tightened and are now based on
performance requirements pertinent to each of the contracts. Under previous
highway projects force account was accepted by the Bank as a mode of implemen-
tation for minor and scattered civil works in recognition of the scarcity of
construction industry units, particularly in the more remote areas in the
country. however, during recent years, a sufficient number of contracting
units became capable of undertaking road improvement works through contracts
awarded following a competitive bidding process. Since the capacity of the
contracting units is still limited, providing opportunity under Bank-financed
projects for local construction units would be beneficial for further techni-
cal development and growth of the contracting industry.
3.60      Works.  Except as noted below, contracts for civil works will be
procured under ICB. There will be four contracts in this category in the
Zhengzhou-Luoyaug Expressway with an estimated cost of $103 million.  Bids for
these cont=acte will be invited and awarded concurrently to allow qualified
firms to bid for one or several contracts and make them more attractive to
large contractors. Other works including provincial and rural roads, road
improvements and small service facilities (toll stations, maintenance depots,
servico and roet areas, administrative buildings, etc.) may be awarded follow-
Ing local bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable .to the Bank. Foreign firms will
not be precluded from bidding for these contracts if they wish to do so.
These contracts are smll in value (ranging from $0.2 million to $5 million
and totalling $120 million), scattered throughout the province and would be
implemented over a four-year period. Therefore, ICB is neither justified nor
practical. All contractors for contracts costing more than $10 million will
be subject to prequalification. Domestic contractors competing under ICB will
be eligible for a 7.5 percent price preference. Domestic contractors are
expected to be competitive for all contracts under this project.
3.61      In the case of osall civil works contracts and those located in
remote sites, recent experience in similar projects has been that only the few
construction entities located nearby the site submit bids. Larger agencies do
not want to mobilize to remote sites for s,iall contracts. To expedite pro-
curement of these small contracts and ensure sufficient competition, contracts
costing $2 million or les up to an aggregate amount of no more than $33 mil-
lion, may be awarded under local bidding procedures under which at least three
bids will be invited from qualified contracts and bids will be publicly
opened. It is impo.tant to note that small works used to be carried out by
force account. Under this project, they will be put out for competition.
3.62      One section of the Expressway costing $12.7 million crosses a sensi-
tive arch"aological area. There is uncertainty on the extent of the archaeo-
logical finds and the relocation and interruptions necessary in the course of
the works. Because of these complications, and of the need to protect this
cultural "aset the Government decided to start this contract early with a
local contractor selected under local competitive procedures. The contract
was signed in April 1992. In view of the circumstances of thie advanced pio-
curement action to avoid project commissioning delays, retroactive financing



- 44 -
is recommended. The amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at
about $2.5 million. All retroactive financing would be within the maximum
period of 12 months prior to the expected date of loan signing.
3.63      EpuinMent.  All contracts for goods and equipment, with certain
exceptions noted below, will be awarded under ICB. For specialized equipment
and where the number of suppliers is small, limited international bidding
would be followed, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.0 million. All
other items or groups of items covering minor maintenance equipment, equipment
for RDB/PMS, laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes
estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract package, in an aggregate
amount not axceeding $3.0 million, may be procured following shopping proce-
dures on the basis of a comparison of pr.,ice quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic
manufacturers competing under ICB will be eligible for a margin of preference
in the comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom
duties, whichever is lower.
3.64      Consultants.  Foreign consulting expertise needs were identified for
construction supervision, staff training, and trucking study although local
expertise available in the various provincial universities and institutes in
the subsector would be used as much as possible. All consultants would be
employed under the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance
with Bank Guidelines on the selection of consultants. Because of the need to
have the local supervision staff trained and -eady to start supervision of
construction of the Expressway by the time contracts are signed with contrac-
tors, HPCD requested that the Bank allow advance contracting for the services
of the foreign consultants for supervision of the construction of the Express-
way and retroactive financing of the portion of the consulting services
required for training of local supervision staff and mobilizing the experts.
The amount subject to retroactive financing is estimated at about $500,000.
However, all of this amount will be within the maximum period of 12 months
prior to the expected date of loan signing.
3.65      Bank Review. All contracts for civil works and goods with an esti-
mated cost of $2 million or more and all consultants' contracts will be sub-
ject to Bank prior review. This represents about 84 percent of the estimated
total contracts by value. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post
review.
J. Disbursements
3.66      Disbursement of the loan/credit would cover:  (a) 50 percent of the
total expenditures for civil works of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway;
Cb) 70 percent of the total expenditures for the supply and installation of
electrical and mechanical equipment for the operation of the Expressway;
(c) 34 percent of the total cost of construction of provincial and rural high-
ways in northwest Henan; (d) 38 percent of the total construction cost of RIP;
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly-imported equipment or
100 percent of local expenditure (ex-factory) for locally-manufactured equip-
ment and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(f) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and staff training.



- 45 -
3.67      To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with
an authorized allocation of $7.0 million equivalent, the estimated average
expenditures for a four-month period. The account would be opened in US dol-
lars in a bank acceptable to the Bank and managed by Henan Provincial Finance
Bureau- Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be sub-
mitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of
its initial deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated disburse-
ments is given in Table 3.3 which takes into consideration the project dis-
bursement profile for transport projects in China. The proposed closing date
is June 30, 1998.
3.68      Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the civil
works and for he delivery and installation of the equipment. Interim certif-
ication of civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts
will be prepared by the contractors, reviewed by the supervision teams/units
and payments authorized by HGHCA and HAB. Retroactive financing of up to
$3.0 million would be applied to expenditures made after March 31, 1992 for
Contract No. 10 for the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway ($2.5 million) and for
consultants for supervision of construction of the Expressway and training of
local supervision staff ($0.5 million). Disbursements for staff training in
China or abroad will be made against the actual coste of travel, subsistence
and tuition or training fees. In case of expenditures relating to contracts
for works and goods, each valued less than $200,000 equivalent and expendi-
tures for training, reimbursement would be made on the basis of SOEs. Docu-
mentation supporting SOEs would be retained by the implementation agencies and
made available for review by the Bank supervision missions.
K. Audit&na
3.69      The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Adminis-
tration (SAA) will be roaponsible for the auditing of project expenditure..
A-reement was reached with Henan Provincial Government durina netotiations
that the accounts of proiect-related expenditures would be audited by indeoen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit renorts would be sent to
the Bank for review within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The
Bank Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
L. Prolect Supervision. Reportina and Monitorina
3.70      The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose fre-
quency would be guided by the progress of the works. However, on the average,
a mission at about 6 months intervals would be mounted; a Supervision Mission
Plan is presented in Annes 7.  In addition, the Bank would monitor progress of
implementation of all project components through quarterly progress reports to
be submitted by HPCD. It is estimated that over the implementation period of
the project the total time expended on supervision would be in the order of 50
staff-weeks. Regarding reporting requirements, an understanding was reached
during appraisal with HPCD concerning the foi-mat of the quarterly progress
reports. This format includes parameters for progress monitoring purposes. A
copy of a quarterly progress report outline is available in the project file.



- 46 -
IV. ecoNotc EVALUATION
A. Obiectiveo
4.1       The proposed project would support the development objectives of the
8th FYP for Henan Province, including enhancing China's physical and economic
integration. The proposed road improvements and the institutional components
would help redress widespread transport bottlenecks, strengthen planning and
progranming of the road netwo-rk and improve efficiency in the movement of
freight.   In view of Henan's strategic location an a hub of the national land
transport systems, by reducing physical constraints to long-distance move-
ments, the proposed project also will be expected to support the government
objective to expand interprovincial trade.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.2       Savings in operating costs for freight and passenger vehicles,
reduction in travel time and in congestion, and increases in road safety, and
the provision of year-round, low-cost access to poverty stricken areas of the
province by motorized vehicles will be the main benefits of the proposed road
investments. Construction of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway will signifi-
cantly enhance safety for the large number of tractors and other slow-moving
traffic remaining on the existing road, as the heavier and faster vehicles
move to the new expressway. By reducing Toad congestion, the new expressway
will '.1so lower gasoline consumption and thus vehicle emissions, an important
nonquantifiable economic benefit for Henan's already highly polluted air.
4.3       While the project's institutional benefits are not quantifiable,
they are significant: notably, they include the transfer of modern highway
technology and the strengthening of its management; improved highway invest-
ment planning, and laying the foundation for more efficient operations and
management of trucking operations. The latter should, over time, allow
greater competition in trucking, thus leading to a substantial reduction in
the cost to the operators as well as to the shippers of moving freight by
road.
C. Economic Analysis
4.4       The economic evaluation of the project components, described below,
has been based on 1991 prices for all costs and benefits, net of taxes, and
appropriately adjusted to economic values to reflect the opportunity costs of
resources. Investment costs are net of price contingencies
4.5       Table 4.1 shows the economic and financi-al costs and the conversion
factors used to determine the economic costs of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Express-
way. Among key construction inputs, unskilled labor is overpriced (conversion
factor 0.66) and local steel and cement are severely underpriced (conversion
factors of 2.3 and 3.8, respectively). The overall conversion factor for the
Expressway's investment costs, taking into account both the unit conversion
factors and the amount of the different inputs, is 1.25. Similar factors were
used to determine the economic investment costs for the other project compo-
nents. Economic values were also used in the quantification of benefits.



- 47 -
Zhenxzhou-LuovanZ Exnressw v
4.6       The proposed Zhengzhou-Luoyang expressway (120 km) and its extension
to Kaifeng (an additional 74.9 km, being constructed with provincial financ-
ing), will run parallel to and some 5-30 km south of the Yellow River. It
will provi0e a modern highway facility to Henez's main economic corridor and
will also be an essential link of a major, national, interprovincial road
providing the 7-province Yellow River Economic Region (Qinghai, Gansu,
Ningxia, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Henan and Shandong) with an efficient connection to
ocean port facilities. The Expressway will strengthen Zhengzhou's logistical
role as one of China's key transport hubs,
4.7       In addition to shortening by 36 km the existing road distance of 156
km between Zhengzhou and Luoyang, the Exprewsvay will allow faster speeds and
lower operating costs. Plans for modernization of national route 310 beyond
Luoyang and Kaifeng are included in Henan's 8th PYP, as well as in those of
the neighboring provinces. Such plans envisage improvement of the road
Sanmenxia to Shaansi province border, included in the proposed project, and,
in Shaanxi, improvement of the t.ontinuation from the border until connection
with the existing expressway to Xi'an. Improvements aleo are planned in the
provinces to the east, connecting ultimately with the modern port of
Lianyungang.
4.8       Traffic.   Traffic projections for the economic analysis have been
based on an extensive origin-destination survey carried out by HOCD in 1989,
which divided the area of influence of the Expressway into 21 zones. Esti-
mates of the traffic exected to use the new road have been based on: (a) a
detailed analysis of traffic by zones; and (b) on the vehicle operating costs
on the new and old roads, including the costs of reaching the new road, which
is located some 3-14 km north of the existing road. Since slow-moving vehl-
cles will not be allowed to use the Expressway, this traffic Is assumed to
remain on the existing road. In view of the significantly lower rail fares
and rates compared with existing road transport costs and rates, it was
assumed that traffic from the railway would not be diverted to the new road.
This is a conservative assumption, and the situation may change as railway-
road tariffs differential continues to decrease and the quality of trucking
services improves. Traffic analysis rewilts, aggregated into three main sec-
tions of the Expressway, are shown in Table 4.2. As expected, the heavier
traffic levels are around Zhengzhou; they are lower around Luoyang and between
the two cities.
4.9       Projections of future traffic discriminate between large truck-
trailers, where higher growth rates are expected in consideration of the
greater potential for comuercial, long distance freight, and all other vehi-
cles. Growth rates are forecast to be 5 percent during the three years prior
to opening of the Expressway in 1996, to rise and remain at 6 percent there-
after for teu year&, and to drop again to 5 percent at that time.  Traffic for
the large truck-trailers is expected to grow at 2 percent higher rate than the
rest from 1996 onwards. These estimates are probably consorvative, consider-
ing that traffic growth rates on the existing road over the last 5 years has
been in the range of 10-15 percent, depending on the road section. Traffic
generated by the Expressway has been estimated at 50 percent of normal traf-



-48 -
fic. Sensitivity analysis explores the impact should generated traffic be
lower.
4.10      Road Desian.  The Expressway design was selected after considering
alternatives regarding:
(a) Alignment Location. Four alternatives to the selected alignment
were considered and discarded because they were generally more
expensive without providing a corresponding increase in benefits;
(b) Cross Section. Alternatives ranged from a full-fledged four-lane
expressway to a full two-lane expressway. The option selected,
providing for double carriageway only in the high traffic areas near
Zhengzhou and Luoyang, as well as in the interchanges, meets traffic
needs while adequately providing for future expansion of the
Expressway and reducing construction costs to that corresponding to
two-lanes for most of the initial stage of the Expressway; and
(c)  Tolline System and Interchante Desimn.  The selection of a closed
tolling system with toll booths at the ramps (as opposed to the
alternative open tolling system with toll booths on the Expressway
itself) was decided after considering a number of factors, notably
the need to ensure that slow-moving vehicles would not access the
Expressway; avoidance of stopping traffic on the Expressway to pay
tolls, and investment and operating costs of the interchanges and
tolling facilities.
4.11      Construction costs, expressed in economic values for the cost-bene-
fit analyeis, are shown in Table 4.3. Such costs include the costs of equip-
ment required for environmental monitoring. The construction period of 42
months is estimated to be realistic. The effect of possible delays in comple-
tion on the project's return is tested through sensitivity analysis. The
Expressway's maintenance costs, both routine and periodic, are also considered
in the analysis.
4.12      Benefits from the proposed road stem mainly from savings in vehicle
operating costs to the traffic that would use the Expressway instead of the
existing road. Additional quantified benefits arise from generated traffic
(taken, on a unit basis, at one-half of the unit vehicle cost savings on the
existing road), reduced congestion on the existing road, and savings in acci-
dent coats. The latter measures avoided costs of vehicle and goods damage and
direct medical expenses, and excludes the costs associated with fatalities.
Calculation of unit benefits has been based on the vehicll operating costs
determined by Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study (para. 1.18),
updated to 1991 (Table 4.4). Reduction in road congestion will also yield
savings in fuel consumption (savings estimated at 110 million liters of gaso-
line, in 1996, the opening year) and will result in lower vehicle emissions.
For the purposes of the economic analysis, a 20-year life for the two-lane
expressway has been assumed.
4.13      To account for variances in unit construction costs and traffic
levels along the road, the economic analysis has been conducted separately for
three sectionst  Zhengzhou-Shangjie; Shangjie-Yanshi and Yanshi-Luoyang. The



- 49 -
economic returno, all satisfactory, are, rospectively, 32 percent, 30 percent
and 22 percent The overall economic rate of return for the whole road is
29 percent; the first year return is 26 percent.
4.14      Tollint.  The new Expressway has been designed and will be operated
as a toll facility. Since the Expressway is projected to carry high traffic
volumes, and the existing road will continue to provide free service for non-
motorized and other slow-moving vehicles, tolling is an appropriate user
charge for the traffic using the Expressway.   An analysis of the traffic that
would be diverted indicated that if the toll rates are equal to one third of
the estimated savings in vehicle operating costs, the rate of return for the
tolled expressway would still be a satisfactory 25 percent. To ensure that
toll rates would Ibe appropriate and would not significantly reduce the bene-
fits of this investment, it will be necessary to make a detailed analysis
before deciding on the toll structure. At negotiations. agreements was
reached with HPCD that by October 31. 1995. HPCD will Prevare and send to the
Bank a study on the nronosed toll r-tea. to be conducted followina the Outline
Terms of Reference in Annex 8. snd that such study will take lnto account the
most recent exnerience with toll roads in China.
Provincial and Rural Roads in Northwest Henan
4.15      Provincial Roads.  The five provincial roads to be financed under
the project are included in Henan's 8th FYP. They are listed in para. 3.13.
Four of these roads (all except the Sanjiaokou-Border Road, 8.1 km in length)
are expected to generate traffic that will feed conto the proposed expressway.
While most of the worko to be done in the five provincial road components will
consist of road rehabilitation on the existing alignment, some sections will
require new construction. The total length of the existing roads is 191.5 km,
which the proposed project will shorten by 11.5 km. Construction costs used
in the economic evaluation are shown in Table 4.3.
4.16      Traffic on these roads is in the range of 1,000-3,000 vehicles per
day, with the large trucks and tractors reaching close to 30 percent of the
traffic on the roads with the lower traffic levels. Traffic on these roads is
projected to grow at the same rates as those for the Expressway. Generated
traffic has been assumed to be equivalent to 25 percent of the normal traffic.
4.17      A summary of the roads' costs and benefits is in Tables 4.6a and
4.6b. Quantified economic benefits are vehicle operating cost savings to the
normal and to the generated traffic, and savings in accidents costs (property
damage only). In those cases where new, by-pass sections are built, benefitr
from reduced congestion on the existing road section have also been quanti-
fied. The economic rates of return for these road projects are all satisfac-
tory, and range between 17 percent and 29 percent. The first year returns are
all over 12 percent.
4.18      Rural Roads.  The six rural roads included in the project are
located in three different prefectures, two roads in each. These roads, also
all in northwestern Renan, are situated in depressed economic areas. The
existing roads are mainly mountainous, unsurfaced and of poor alignment, which
makes them Impassable by motor or even animal-drawn vehicles many Aays in the
year, thus depriving the population of access to markets, schools and social



- 50 -
services. Traffic on these roads ranges between 150 and 200 vehicles per day.
With Improved condition to year-round use to be achieved under the project,
the traffic would conservatively be expected to grow at 5 percent annually.
4.19      Benefits were calculated on the basis of vehicle operating costs
applied to current traffic levels and their projections as noted above. This
is a conservative stimate, as it omits potentially important benefits stem-
ming from inereased agricultural outputs and producers' surpluses. The calcu-
lations considered separately the benefits from shorter distance and those
from improved road condition. A summary of the costs and benefits is shown in
Table 4.7. The economic rate of return for the proposed rural roads would
range from a low 18 percent to a high 43 percent. First year returns are over
11 percent.
Roads Improvement Prorram
4.20      This component will help finance improvements of roads in all
administrative classes, included in the 8th FYP and located throughout the
province. As in the case of the provincial and rural roads in northwest
Henan, the RIP subprojects will consist mainly of rehabilitation and improve-
ment of existing alignments, with little new construction.
4.21      A tentative list of the subprojects to be proposed for inclusion
under the project is shown in Table 3.1. An Initial list of five roads to be
financed under this component was agreed at negotiations. The estimated eco-
nomic rates of return for these roads range between 28 percent and 86 percent,
and the average is 43 percent. These rates of return were calculated by HPCD
following the methodology used in this appraisal report.
4.22      Candidate roads for subsequent tranches would be evaluated on the
same basis. Rates of return would be estimated separately for sections of the
some road showing significant differences in traffic levels or in other impor-
tant design par ame tor.
D. Overall Returns and Sensitivity Analvyis
4.23      The overall rate of return for the civil works Investments, includ-
ing the evvressway, provincial and rural roads, and the five initial subproj-
ects under RIP (amounting to 71 percent of total projoct costs) to be financed
under the proposed project is estimated at 28 wnercent. A sensitivity analysis
show that all Individual subprojecto would a .1 have satisfactory rates of
return under a more unfavorable scenario, such as cost overruns, overestima-
tion of benefits, and delays in project implementation, as well as under a
combination of these more pessimistic assumptions. A delay of two years in
the construction of the Expresway (para. 4.11) would lower the rate of return
for that component to 22 percent, which is aitisfactory (Table 4.8).
4.24      All Individual project investment components have high first year
returns (Tables 4.5-4.7), showing that the investments are not premature.
however, tolling may divert some vehicles from the Ezpressway. The toll rates
structure and lels need to be set such as to balance cost recovery and eco-
nomic efficiency objectives.



- 51 -
e. Proiect Riksk
4.25      The main project risk is potential dela7s in the complotion of the
Expressway. This risk stems from Henan Highways Department's lack of experi-
ence with the international procurement process and construction of modern
expressways, and from uncertainties in the Expressway's section traversing an
archeological zone. Substantial measures have been taken during project prep-
aration to minimize such risks. First, a detailed design review was carried
out with assistance from international consultants, and prequalification and
supervision arrangements have been tightened through the provision of quali-
fied international consultants and training for local staff supervision per-
sonnel. Second, Henan authorities conducted extensive survoys, Including over
one million borings in the archeological section, so as to minimize chances of
encountering now archeological areas during construction of the Expressway and
to prevent damage to cultural property and stoppage of the construction activ-
ities as mandated by national and Henan laws (AEL 4, para. 14). In addi-
tion, works in that zone have been started ahead of the other sections of the
road to provide a further buffer of time should any unexpected archeological
finds occur during construction.



- 52 -
V. ACREMRENT REACHED AND RECOUENDATION
5.1       At negotiation., agreement wee reached with PRC that it would onl-nd
the proceods of the loan to Ronan Province (BP) under terms and conditions
specified in the Loan Agreement.
5.2       At negotiation., agreement was reached with BP:
(a) that comprehensive and institutional training would be carried out
in accordance with program acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.30);
(b) on the Terms of Reference, including implementation program and
composition of the Review Panel, for the trucking study, on carrying
out the study by December 31, 1994 under Terms of Reference *atis-
factory to the Bank, and on HP'. comitment to take steps to imple-
ment the study's recommendations (para. 3.32);
Sc) that the environmental protection measures stipulated In the Envi-
ronmental Action Plan with respect to the Zhengzhou-Luoyang
Expresway, and, similarly, for the roads in northwest Henan and the
subprojects under RIP, would be carried out in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (pare.. 3.33 and 3.37);
(d) that all land acquisition and resettlement activities and monitoring
of resettlement with respect to the Zhangshou-Luoyang Expresasway and
the provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan, as well as in
respect of the RAPS to be prepared under the RIP program, would be
completed according to the Resettlement Action Plans in a manner
satiefactory to the Bank (pares. 3.40, 3.42 and 3.43);
(e) that for monitoring of resettlement (i) monitoring teams would
include qualified social *cientists and (11) monitoring reporta for
the Expressway and other roads would be submitted to the Bank by
December 15, 1993, and by the same date, annually, In 1994 and 1995
(pare. 3.44);
(f) that subprojects to be selected under the RIP program would be
selected in accordance with criteria and procedures eatisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.53);
(g) that the accounts of project-related expenditures would be audited
by Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audit
reports would be sent to the Bank for review within siz months of
the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.69); and
(h) that by October 31, 1995, BP will prepare and send to the Bank a
study on the proposed toll rates, to be conducted following the
agreed Outline Terms of Reference, and that such study will take
into account the most recent xperience with toll roads In China
(para. 4.14).



- 53 -
5.5       Stcte Council approval of the Loan Agreoemnt Is a condition of
effectivenes.. Bank approval of subprojects under the RIP program is a condi-
tion of dieburoement.
5.4       Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project vould be suitable for
a Bank loan of $120 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan mould
be for a term of 20 year., Including a grace period of five yearc, at the
Benk's standard variable Interest rate.



- 54 -                             ANNKX I
CNuli
RAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Imurovement Program
1.       The Road Improvement Program (RIP) will ossist Henan Province in
implementing its 8th Five-Year Plan road program. Fiancing for the RIP pro-
gram will be provided by UPCD's own resources (57 percent) and a loan from the
World Bank (43 percent). The RIP w4ii be managed by Henan Province Communica-
tions Department undev operational arrangements agreed with the Bank, which
include subprojact selection criteria, enginearing and procurament, environ-
mental and resettlement assessements and plans, and economic evaluation meth-
odology.
2.        Since subprojects to be financed under the RIP will be selected in
part during lplementation of the proposed project, it will not be known in
advance how many km of roads will be covered by the RIP program. This will
also depend on the mix between provincial, other trunk and rural roads. The
proposed first p-ckage (Table 3.1) costing Y 100.7 million would cover 112 km.
HPCD estimates that the total RIP program would cover some 700 km.
Hanaaement of the RIP
3.        The RIP program will be managed by the Highway Administration Bureau
(RAB) of Honan Province Communications Department. HAB's Engineering Section
will be in charge of all engineering aspects, except for the rural roads,
which are under HAl's Rural Roads Section.
4.        Preparation of design and bid documents will be done by the relevant
Design Institutes of Municipalities and Prefectures. These documents would be
reviewed and *pproved by HAD. The performance of these design institutes on
provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan has been satisfactory.
5.        Supervision of road works under the RIP will be carried out by Henan
Office of Supervision of Provincial and Rural Roads (HOSPPR) and its branches
at the prefectural levels. One Resident Engineer will be appointed for each
subproject.
Subgrolect 8Slection Criteria
6.        Subprojects will be selected from among road projects included in
Henan 8th FYP. RIP funding could be applied to road Improvements located
anywhere in the Province. Provincial as well as other trunk and rural roads
are expected to be finaneod under RIP, and no individual road should absorb a
substantial portion of RIP funds. Specifically, the RIP program is expected
to finance several rural roads improvement projects, especially those located
In poor counties.
7.        Subprojects to be accepted under the RIP will need to meet the fol-
lowing conditions:



- 55 -                              ANx I
(a) have an Sconomic Rate of Return (ERR) of 12 percent or higher. The
methodology to determine the ERR will follow the methodology used in
this appraisal report for analyzing the road investments in NW
Henan;
(b) follow MOC engineering standards (Table 1.7), and sound engineering
and highway safety practices;
(c) comply with environmental and resettlement requiremonts as detailed
In paras. 8 and 9 below; and
(d) contracts for execution of the road subprojects would follow pro-
curement procedures as detailed in para. 10 below.
Environmental and Rgoettlement Requirements
8.        All RIP-financed projects must comply with environmantal and reset-
tlement requirements, as noted below. For environmental and reettlement
considerations, RIP subprojects can be classified in two categories:
(a) SubRroiects reuiring anew right-of-wav. or located in *nvironment-
ally sensitive areas. For such subprojects, specific Environmental
Assessmenta, with detailed management, monitoring and resettlement
plans would need to be prepared. Such EL and plans would be similar
In nature, content and detail to thQse prepared for the Zhsngzhou-
Luoyang Expressway, and described in Annexes 4 and 5.
(b)  Sub_grojects which neither reauire new right-of-wav nor are located
in environmentally senitive areas. For such subprojects, only a
simple environmental management and monitoring plan is required, and
the plan may be presented in tabular form.
9.        In order to facilitate the preparation of management and monitoring
plans for Category B subprojects, prior to start of the RIP program, HPCD will
have prepared a generic, Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA). Such SA
will identify the general kind of environmental impacts that can be associated
with different types of works (e.g 8 road widening inside right-of-way, pave-
ment strengthening, brigde reinforcement), and would provide guidelines for
preparing a table with environmental management and monitoring plans to
address such impacts.
Procurement
10.       The procurement method will vary depending on the contract value.
Those subprojects with contract value $2 million and above will be procured
under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), and will require prior Bank review and
approval of bidding documents. Subprojects with contract value below $2 mil-
lion will be procured under local bidding procedures under which at least
three bids will be invited from qualified contractors and bids will be pub-
licly opened. Documents would be made available to the Bank upon request.
These smaller subprojects would be mainly rural road projects. Overall, pro-
curement under local procurement procedures should not exceed $33 million
equivalent.



- 56 -                              ANg  I
Onerational Arrangements
11.       Subprojects will be Initially identified by the HAB, and will be
subject to approval by HPCD's Planning Department prior to submission to the
Bank. Economic evaluation of the subprojects will be conducted by the Design
Institutes of Municipalities and Prefectures. The economic evaluation will be
reviewed by the HAB Preparation of the engineering design and bid documents
will also be prepared by the municipalities end prefectures' design insti-
tutes. They will be reviewed (i) the smaller projects, by the RAB, through
its Technology Office, and (ii) the larger projects, by HPCD's Planning
Department.
First Packaae
12.       The first package of road subprojects to be financed under the RIP
consist of the followingt
(a)  five road improvement subprojects (about 159 km in total), for a
total of Y 90.3 million, with rates of return ranging between
28 percent and 86 percent; and
(b)  four road improvement and two bridge subprojects (about 81.3 km in
total) for a total of Y 48.3 million.
13.       Selection of subprojects under (a) was argued at negotiations.
Selection of subprojects under (b) is expected to be completed upon submis-
sion, by December 31, 1992, of reassessed economic returns. The list of roads
under (a) and (b) is in the Appendix to this Annex.



-57 -                              AM= I
ApaeadV
HEIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Imnrovement Protram
First Package
Road                             Length                Cost               ERR L
(km)            (Y million)             (Z)
Road subprojects agreed for inclusion during nemotiations:
Wuichang-Sangji                   24.50                 9.3              85.9
Shengju-Jieshou                   29.16                19.8              30.5
Qslian-Taikang                    54.56                36.0              28.7
Qizian-Longgu                  (31.76)              (21.3)             29.8
Longgu-Taik=ag                 (22.80)              (14.7)             27.6
Tongzu-Boundary                   34.49                22.4              29.5
Yongxing-Nachao                   16.00                 2.8              38.3
Subtotal                    158.71               290.               42.6
Road Subnroiecta for which gdditional information will be sent bv Henan Prov-
ince by December 31. 1992:
Raifeng Access Road                9.35                10.2               -
Panmisn-Taiqian                   32.48                16.2               -
Ganan Bridge                       0.54                 8.0               -
Quanzhuang Bridge                  0.13                 1.5
Hongylhe-La-wang                  10.03                 5.5               -
Beiyang-Nanshan                   28.76                 6.9               -
Subtotal                    418.29               43 
Total                       240.00              138.6               42.6
/A ERR combining costs and benefits streams. ERR for the aecond group of six
road subprojects will be reassessed end included in the December 31, 1992
submission.



- 58 -                              AhWi&2
HENAN HIG=WAY PROJECT
Trainina Program
1.        Training to be provided under the proposed project consists of three
kindos (a) comprehensive training; (b) training connected with Institutional
strengthening; and (a) supervision training. In total, the project provides
for training to about 355 people for about 390 person-montha, of which about
one third would be trained outside China. However, thi training program
should be looked at as subject to reasonable change with regard to training
coursas and number of trainees, and consequently, some flexibility should be
exercised during project implementation to allow for changing circumstances
and needs especially that the number of trainees for many courses is small.
The following sections present highlights of the three kinds of training and a
detailed listing of the training areas and their cost. The purposa of this
annex is to present additional data and details to supplement the correspond-
ing sections on training in Chapter III of this report (paras. 3.18 and 3.23-
3.30).
2.        A training program was propared by HPCD in October 1991.  Following
review by the BIak9s preappraisal mission, HPCD prepared a revised program.
This program was reviewed by the appraisal mission and was found to be goner-
ally satisfactory. The agreed program would split training into three catego-
ries: a comprehensive program targeted at the personnel of the departments of
HPCD responsible for planning, designing, constructing and maintaining high-
ways in Henan province; a program directed at Institutional strengthening of
five agencies affiliated with HPCD, namely the Highway Institute, the Voca-
tional School, the Scientific Research Institute, the Planning and Design
Institute and the High-Grade Highway Construction Authority; and a program to
train local staff who will be involved in the supervision of the Expressway,
roads in northwest Henan and RIP components of the proposed project.
3.        Com2rehensive Training Program.  Consists of three partst
(a) inspection tours abroad for 40 senior personnel for a total of 20 man-
months; (b) training abroad for 21 people for a total of 30 man-months in the
areas of pavement construction, project management, quality control, traffic
engineering, operations management, highway maintenance, management and utili-
zation of equipment, highway finance and accounting; and road data bank and
pavement management system (a) domestic training for about 58 peopls for a
total of 58 man-months In the same fields as for traininsg  ' oad (Part I of
Appendix 1). The total number of people to be trained Is e*imated at about
119 for a total of about 108 man-month.
4.        Training for Instltutlongl Strengthenin. The flve agencies affill-
ated with HPCD mentioned In para. 2 of this annex will be strengthened under
the proposed project. The main areas for training are highway and bridge
engineering design and economic analysis, highway construction and mainte-
nanes, project management, traffic engineering, operation of toll roads, high-
way finance and accounting, and environmental protection and testing. The



- 59 -                              ANNEX 2
number of trainees and associated cost for each of the five agencies are
listed In Part II of Appendix 1. Training will be conducted within China and
abroad. A total of about 76 people will be trained for about 122 person-
months of which about 41 people will be trained abroad for about 91 person-
months. The areas of training are tailored to the needs of each of the five
agencies.
5.         unervision Trgining.  The High-Grade Highway Supervision Office
(HONSO) of HPCD and BAB estimated their needs for training in order to carry
out their responsibilitios to supervise the construction of the Zhengzhou-
Luoyang Exproseway and the provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan as
well as RIP. Those needs are based on the volume of work required and the
corrasponding number of staff to supervise the works and ensure that the spec-
ifications aro properly enforced as well as uniformity of quality control
across the roads included in RIP. The areas of training include project man-
sgement, contract management, especially under PIDIC conditions, quality con-
trol, and evaluation and resolution of disputes and claims. A total of about
130 people will be trained within China for one month each (80 from HGHSO and
50 from DAB) and the best 30 of them will be trained abroad for one month each
(20 from hHSO and 10 from RAB). Training will be done by foreign experts to
be provided by the foreign consulting firm which will form a part of the joint
locallforeign team to supervise the construction of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang
Expresaway. A total of about 5 man-months by foreign experts will be required
for training: 3 man-months for training within China and 2 man-months for
training abroad. The same experts who will perform the domestic training will
accompany those to be trained abroad. It should be pointed out that generally
supervision training will be completed before the start of construction by
contractors. In addition to the formal supervision training, the foreign
experts who will participate in the supervision of the construction of the
Expressway will provide on-the-job training to local staff, especially to
their local counterparts. Part III of Annex I summarizes the supervision
training to be provided under the proposed project as well as its estimated
cost.
6.        Manaaement of the Trainng RProgram.  Because of the small number of
trainees In a given area and the difficulty of finding training programs for
such small number, the Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) of the Ministry of
Communication will coordinate this program together with similar programs
under Bank-financed highway projects in China. This should lead to efficiency
and economy as well as consistency in training among provinces and reduction
in the number of different philosophies of highway practice that trainees
%would be exposed to abroad which would, in turn, lead to more efficiency in
affecting canges at hom.  TCU would program the training courses in consul-
tation with the Provincial Communication Departments and would administer
them.
7.        The Zducation Division of HPCD will be in charge of the training
program. However, It has not managed a program of the size and diversity as
the one lcluded under the proposed project. Consequently, HPCD has agreed to
strengthen this unit by assigning qualified additional staff, some of whom
would have foreign language capabilities and providing it with a computer and
related software and copying equipment, as well as adequate access to good
means of communication. Training abroad would be preceded by training within



- 60 - 
China with the best performer. selected for training abroad. Also, all
trainees to be sent abroad would have a good working knowledge of English or
else would take a three-month English language course prior to traveling
abroad. Moreover, training would be related to the career development and the
professlonal growth of the staff selected for training. The Education Divi-
sion would develop a formal selection procedure, acceptable to the Bank, for
candidates to be selected for training. Each trainee would be required to
submit a report on training received to his or her department or agency.



no"U HfIftWy PROJECT
Wrintlnt Prorr 
astimsted
Person-    cost In
Io. of trainees     months of  thousand.
Type of training                  and duration         traintng   of dollars                Remarks
I. ComNrehansive Trainina
A. Insuection Tours         40 persons 0 0.5         20       200      Study tours for senior personnel.
month/person
Subcotal                                 40           20       200
D. Trainitn Abroad
1. Pavement con-        3 persons e 2              6        37     Mechanized road construction techniques, con-
struetion            months/person                              struction of asphalt concrete pavements, skid                  at
prevention, mnagement of road construction.
2. Project manage-      6 persons 0 1.5            9        63    lIcludes project preparation, appraisal, economic
ment                 months/person                              analyses, budgeting, highway planning, post
appraisal of completed projects.
3. Qualicy control      4 persons 0 1.5            6        42     Includes now techniques of testing of materials,
monthsl/person                             lmproving quality of bitumen, emnlsified asphalt.
4. Traffic engineer-    1 person for 2             2        13     Includes traffic control devices, collection and
INg                  months                                     processing of traffic data, safety, computer
applications in traffic engineering.
S. Operations man-       1 person e 1              1         9     Operation of expressways with emphasis on toll
agreent              month/person                               facilities, monitoring and telecommunication sys-
tems and use of computers in these fields.
6. Highway mainte-      3 persons 0 0.5            1.5      15     Includes selection of maintenance equipment,
nance                months/person                              maintenance of asphalt and concrete roads on
expressways and lover level roads.
7. Management and        1 person for 1.5          1.5      11     Includes hirlng equipment, management and utili-
utilization of       months                                     zation of equipment for removing snow and dealing           I!
equipment                                                       with accidents and hazardous materials.



Estimated
Person-   cost In
No. of trainees    months of  thousands
Type of training                 and duration         training   of dollars              Remarks
S. PFinnce and          2 persons * 1.5          3         21     Financing expressways including loans, accounting
accounting           monthsiperson                             for highways, financial and accounting reports,
auditing and financial analyses,
Subtotal--training abroad               21           30       211
C. Domestic TraiDinR
1. Pavement con-        4 persons e 1            4         2
struction           month/person                              1
2. Operations man-      2 persons S 1            2          1
S me nt              month/person                              I
3. Project manage-      8 persnas 0 1            8          4
meAt                 month/person
4. QmuUty control       6 persos @ 1             6          3     I
xonth/person                              I0
S. Management of        3 persons for 1          3          2      Cotents same as for corresponding courses In
equipment and        monthiperson                              ttraining abroad listed under I.3.
materials
6. Higbhay mainte-      5 persons 0 1            5         2
nance                month/person
7. Traffic engineer-   2 persons e 1             2          1
In                  monthiperson                               |
S. innce and c-         3 persons I              3          2
counting             monthlperson                              I
9. Iainbay design       12 perona e 1           12         5      J
sonthlpersonJ
10. lconioic aonlyss   S persons e 1              5         2
for highways         month/perion
11. Road Data lank       8 persons e 1            8         4
nd Po                month/person
Subtotal--domestic training             Se           58        28      Includes cost of 1 person-month of foreign
xpert, 5 person-maonths of domestic experts
and cost of training material.
Sotal--cowrbhensvs tralnina            119          108       439



Istilnted
Person-    cost in
No. of trainees     month, of  thousands
Type of trainin                   and duration        training   of dollars               Remarks
II. Tr laln4 for Institu-
tlonal Strengmtnen$
A. irinhway Intitute
1. Ttrainin Abroad
(a) Transport        I person for I month      1         a
mrkat m-
asgemnt
(b) Traffic engi-    I person for I month      1         7
neering
(C) Kuviroinental   1 person for 1 month       1         8
p.-tection
(d) Economic ana-   1 person for 1 month       1         7
lyses                                                                                                                     r
(e) Precision        1 person for I month      1         8     Use and maintenance of precision instruments for
instruments                                                highway testing
Subtotal                                 5            5         38
2. Domestic training    6 persons for 1           6         4
month each
Subtotal--Bighway Institute             11            11        42
B. Vocational School
1. Domestic Trainin
(a) Road grading                                         1     1Training of trainers by lnviting local experts
equipment                                                  Ito lecture and train vocational school staff in
luse of new equipment. Services of trainers
(b) Rolling                                              1      ronsist of (a) one expert for 2 months for road
equipment                                                    grading equipment (b) one expert for 2 months
1      for rolling equipment Cc) one expert for 2                  D 
(c) Road surface                                               Jrunths for road surface equipment.
equipment
Subtotal--Vocational School                                      3I



Natimated
PersO-    cost In
No. of trainees     months of  thousands
Typ of trainin                   and duration         trainng   of dollars               Rmarks
C. Scientific Rearch
Institut*
1. Trainlo Abrod
(a) Blglbay. and    2 persona I 1             2        15
brLdge. qual-   monthiperson
ity testing
(b) Autmobile        1 person for 1 nonth     1         8
perfomance
testing
(c) Transportatlo   2 persons   1             2        15
n econamis       month/person
2. Domestic Trainina
(a) Highays *nd      2 persons e 1            2         2
bridges qual-   monthiperson
lty t otin
(b) Ato obile           persons 0 1           2         1
perfonc ee       month/person
testing
Subtotal--Scientif i
Research Institute                    9             9        41
D. Plannin  and Desn
Institutt
1. Trainin Abroad
(a) Appraisal of    2 persons 0 6            12        38
highway proj-   months person
ects and
feaibility
studies                                                                                                              I!



Estiated
Person-    cost in
No. of trainees     months of thousands
Type of tralning                 and duration         training   of dellars              Remarks
2. Dometic Trainizn
(a) Hig   y and     2 persons e 6            12         5
bridge design   monthslperson
(b) hPplication      2 persons   6           12         6
of-highway      monthsiperson
nd bridge
CAD software
(c) ara l  asp-      1 person for 6           6         3
ping             months
Subtotal--domestic training             5            30        14
Subtotal--Planning and
Design Institute                  7            42        S2
I. RIh ugr dBldgsa
C6gitruction Author-
~Z(GC&)                                                                                                                   0%
1. k&aIDiN Abro .
(a) Pavement con-   3 persons L 2             6        42
.truclOiA       months/person                             1
(b) Project man-    6 persons L 1.5           9        63
agement          monthslperson
(c) Operations       2 persons e 1            2        14
management       month/person
(d) Traffic engi-   2 persons 6 2             4        28      Course descriptions are some as corresponding
nearing          months/person                             courses for training abroad under Comprehensive
Traiinng (I).
(e) Highway main-   3 persons e 1.5         4.5        32
tenance         months/person
(f) Management       I person for 1.5       1.5        11
and utiliza-    months
tion of
equipment
(g) Finance aid      2 persons 6 1.5          3        21
accounting      months/person                             J                                                         I>
Subtotal--traluing abroad               19           30       211



isti_ted
Person-    cost in
No. of tranes       months of  thousands
Type of tralning                  and duration         training   of dollars               Rimarks
2. Domestic Training
(a) Pavement con-   4 persons e 1              4          2
*truction        month/person                               I
(b) Project _-    8 persons , 1                8          4
agseet           month/person
(c) Operations       4 persons e 1             4          2
manuemeat        moth/person                                I
Cd) Highway maun-   5 persons   1              5          2     iCourse descriptions are same as corresponding
ten nc           month/person                               fcourses for training abroad under Comprehensive
ITrlainin (I).
(e) Kanagem'nt       3 pArsons e 1             3          2
and utillsa     month/person                               I
tion of                                                                                                                    Ok
equipment
(f) Traffic *ngi-    3 persons gl              3          1
neerlng          month/person                               I
(a) Finoace and      3 persons e 1             3          2     1
msnagement       month/person                               J
Subtotal--domestic training              30           30         15
Subtotal--HGHCA                         49            60       226
Total--Institutional Trainian            76          122       364
5!ll



Estimated
Person-   cost in
go. of trainees    mnths of thousands
Tye of tradnig                   and dturation       training  of dollars               Rearks
IIl. Sunervision Tratnun
A. Trainin Abroad
1. Supervision of      30 persons Q 1           30       210     1
construction of      monthlperson                              Cost estimate does not Include cost of 5 man-
roads                                                           montbs of foreign experts, to be provided by the
Iconsulting fine who will form a part of the
5. Dcmeotlc Trains                                                   joint local/fore$gn temr to supervise the con-
130 persons e 1        130       58      *struction of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expresaway.
1. Supervision of      monthlperson                              IThat effort and the related cost are to be
construction of                                               Iincluded in the contract to be signed with the
roads                     160               160       268     Iforeign consulting fim. HPCD will pay sepa-
irately for the cost of trainees both within
Subtotal--supervision                                                JChina and abroad.
GRAND TOTAL--TR&INI3G PROGRAM    355               390     1.071c
52 Administration Fee and Contingencies                           129
Total Cost of Train-na Proaram                             1.200
fi



-68 -
CHI
HENAN HIG£WAY PROJECT
Trucking Study
Draft Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.        The gonan Province is situated in the central part of China and has
a population of some 86 million inhabitants.
2.        Henan is the crossroads for the main north-south and east-west rail-
ways linking the country's extreme parts together. State and provincial high-
ways also meet in the province's capital, Zhengzhou, which makes this province
an important hub in the national transportation system.
3.        The economy of the Henan Province is heavily depending on agricul-
ture, textile and light industry. There are abundant mineral resources and
lUrge deposits of coal.
4.        The major part of freight within as well as to and from the province
is carried out by railways, working to full capacity.
5.        With the assistance of a World Bank loan, the Province in the next
five years will build its first expressway and Improve a significant portion
of its road network.
6.        The trucking industry is made up of four different corporate struc-
tures, all with different background and operating conditions. These are
private, collective, state-owned and own-account companies. In comon to thb
four categories is lack of management skills and techniques and poor stardard
of roads and vehicles. Ths result is low utilization of existing resources
and low-load factors.
7.        The situation is further aggravated by a system with national uni-
fied tariffs, offering different competitive opportunities to different opera-
tors in that operating costs show a large variance between them but not the
price. The structure of these tariffs is furthermore unreasonable which
become an obstscle for an increased use of public trucking services. In
addition, the high tariffs work as an encouragement for industry to acquire
and maintain its own transport resources. Finally, rail tariffs are a frac-
tion of trucking rates which attracts cargo to the already overburdened rail-
ways. The Government has indicated its plan to Increase these tariffs.
8.        Due to the prevailing situation, it is of great importance that a
study is carried out on the trucking industry with a view of proposing mea-
sures to strengthen it and offer manufacturing industry transport of higher
quality and lower costs. This view is supported by the provincial government.



- 69 -                              MM  3
9.        The Henan Province Communications Department has appointed the Henan
Scientific Research Ir.stituto (HSRI) to be responsible for this study. HSRI
has entrusted its nevly created Transportation Economics Department with the
responsibility to organize and carry out the study. HSRI has put together a
special team for this purpose. The team includes specialized personnel
recruited from other agencies and with experience in the trucking business.
To assist the HSRI in this assignment, foreign consultancy will be called
upon. The role of the consultant will be that of an advisor.
10.       The objec.ive  of the Study are to:
(a) describe in detail the present situation and structure of the truck-
Ing industry in the Henan Province;
(b) identify and assess the present problems which constitute an obsta-
cle to the sound and quick development of the industry itself and
its users;
(e) draw up a strategy for correcting the inadequacies with regard to,
i.e., low utilization and low-load factors, irrational price differ-
ences and limited management skills; and
Cd) identify and propose measures to be taken by the provincial govern-
ment in order to make necessary Improvements and rectify shortcom-
ings airAed at strengthening the trucking industry and achieve higher
cost efficiency.
B. Study Topics
11.       The Study will concentrate on establishing the conditions prevailing
in the trucking industry and the rules, regulations and other factors affect-
ing it. To successfully describe the background present situation and possi-
ble development of the trucking industry, the Study should include the follow-
ing item.
12.       Government Aeencies   The national and provincial laws and regula-
tions affecting trucking and the different agencies within the provincial
government which Implement and control the compliance with all these laws and
regulations will be identified together with an assessment of their impacts on
costs and efficiency of trucking. Also, the power and tools available to
these agencies to direct the industry in desired direction will be Identified.
The Study should establish to what extent these tools are in use and if dif-
ferent trucking concerns are given equal competitive opportunities. The Study
should also identify the areas the provincial government may introduce changes
within existing national legal framework.
13.       Fiscal Conditions.  The economic conditions prevailing for difforent
t7pes of companies in the sector should be described, including taxation,
rules for entry into and exit from the industry and existing financial insti-
tutions to support such entry.
14.       Corporate Structures. The organizational structure at prosert
includes private operators, collective, state-owned and units owned by indus-



- 70 -                              AfE 3
try, the own-account. The Study should describe the different types with
their relative sharo of the market in terms of volumes, commodities, etc., and
describes
*    ownership
e    fleet and staff size
*    operational performamce
*    financial performance
*    technical performance
*    service levels
*    growth potential
15.       Forw  ldn. An organization much resembling a conventional freight
forwarding company operates in Province in order to assist truckers and users
to m it in the marketplace. This organization should bo investigated and an
assesment made of the possibilities to increase the number and quality of
operators and services in freight-forwarding.
16.       Volme.  In order to gain an understanding of the main cargo flows
with the Province, a detailed survey should be carried out. The survey will
be limited to cover the main seven cities, and the interviews with companies
and authorities will be the main method for collecting such data. A forecast
for the period up to the year 2000 should be done for the flows covered by the
Study.
17.       goulam ng. The capacity of trucks ranges from 2-10.5 tons for the
majority of the fleet. The majority of trucks ore made in China, but there is
also a growing Import of trucks. The Study should consider the consequences
of the limited vehicle carrying capacity in terms of operating costs, fuel
consumption and wear and tear on the road network. This will be compared with
the likely situation for larger trucks. The Study will also establish fiscal
costs for imported vehicles in comparison with domestic ones and the possibil-
ities of chages in this respect.
18.       Technical Rcuirements. Rulso and regulations as to technical stan-
dards and design of vehicles required by the government should be defined.
The Study should also assess safety regulations with regard to hazardous
cargo, wide loads, etc. Government agencies that oversee compliance with
rules and regulations appear to be relatively inactive. The reasons for this
would be investigated, and changes in the future role of these agencies should
be analyzed.
19.       Tariffs. Exsting tariffs establish in detail the prices allowed to
be charged by trucking operators. The Study will establish what influence
thay have on the development of the trucking industry. The study will also
compa3a ouch tariffs with the tranport costs of the own-account trucking



- 71 -                              AMEX .
operations of industrial units. The analyses should include the tariffs with
regard to all different services included therein.
20.       Marketina and Sales.  Public carriers appear to be passive in this
area. Radio and newspapers appear at present to be used to advertise ser-
vices, although to a very limited extent. The study should consider ways for
improving this situation.
21.       Fuel.  Most trucks operate on gasoline.  The Study should assess
availability of both gasoline and diesel, the present price end the Intentions
of the government to induce the industry to move towards use of diesel or
continue as at present.
22.       Z4ainteutance and Repair.  Most truck operators have their own facili-
ties for maintenance and light repairs. The Study should Identify the exis-
tence of public garages and their equipment with professional mechanics ser-
vicing both domestic and imported vehicles. Supply of spare parts for both
kinds of vehicles should also be assessed.
23.       Trainina.  In step with the ongoing reform process and the ambitions
to restructure state-owned trucking companies, the question of Improving mana-
gerial skills should be addressed. The Study should establish the need for
and interest in carrying out planned training programs for one or several
types of companies.
C. Consultants Services
24.       In order to assist the HSRI Study team, it will be necessary to seek
the assistance of foreign consultants. Their role during the entire duration
of the Study will be an advisory one, offering supervisory assistance, recom-
mendations and support to the HSRI team. Two short saemnars on Transport
Management and Survey methodology will be carried out by the members of the
foreign consultancy team.
25.       The estimated total effort by the consultant is nine staff-months,
of which oeven are identified in these terms of reference, two will be identi-
fied and proposed in the first Progress Report.
D. Studr Stages
26.       The Study will be divided into two stages, together comprising
approximately 12 months. In addition, time should be added at the end of each
stage for a Review Panel to read, assess and take decisions on reports from
the Study team.
27.       The first stage of the Study will atart with brief seminars on
Transport Management and Survey methodology for the HRSI Study team. There-
after, a survey will be conducted at collecting basic data on the item men-
tioned in Section D of these terms of reference. The first stage will *nd
with an interim report of the work achieved so far.



- 72 -                              ANJ
28.       The second stage will continue with further fact-finding and analy-
ses of the collected data and information. This stage is expected to last for
some five months at the end of which period the team will commence preparing
recommendations for measures to be taken.
29.       In total, stage one will run over five months and stage two about
seven months duration for a total of 12 months.
S. Renorts
30.       All reports mentioned herein will be prepared by HSRI with assis-
tance from the consultants, and will be submitted to a Review Panel. The
Panel wvll comprise representatives from the State and Henan Planning Commis-
sions, the Ministry of Coamunication, Henan Provincial Comnunications Depart-
ment and the World Bank. The Review Panel will take decisions on the Interim
and Final Reports, whereas the Progress Reports serve as information from the
Study team.
31.       During the entire duration of the Study, Progress Reports will be
submitted every two months to all members of the Review Panel. The first
Progress Report will include views on the Terms of Reference and recommend if
any items should be excluded from or new ones added to the TOR. This report
will also identify the needs for additional consultancy services (see section
on Consultancy Services).
32.       Pive months into the Study an Interim Report will be submitted and
the Study team will b expected to arrange a meeting of the Review Panel in
order to discuss the contents. This report should include a preliminary anal-
yses of zollected data and information and identify crucial issues for the
Review P eil to consider.
33.       The Study will be terminated with a Final Report, which will include
the recommendations from the Study team as to measures to be taken.
34.       If called upon by the provincial government, the Study team may take
active part in assisting with the execution of corrective activities recom-
mended in the Final Report.
Ixoerts' Profiles
35.       To assist the Highway Scientific Research Institute in the conduct
of the Study, the following personnel will be required from the foreign con-
sultant in one or several visitat
(a)  One senior transport specialist with at least 15 years in managerial
positions in the transport industry of which a significant part in
trucking.
This individual will be the consultants' teom leader and is expected
to carry out the seminar aimed at the 8SRI team.
The astimated duration of service is 15 weeks.



- 73 -                              AN       
(b)  One survel and statistical alecialist with a minimum of 10 years
experience in public survey project., preferably from the transport
lndustry.
He/she will be expected to give lectures on surveying during his/her
Initial stay.
Estimated duration of service is 5 weeks.
(c) One senior economist with a minimum of 10 years of managerial posi-
tions in the fields of finance and accounting in the transport
industry.
Estimated duration of service is 4 weeks.
(d)  One traffic /overations specialist with a minimum of 15 years experi-
ence in the transport industry with emphasi.o on traffic control and
fleet management.
Estimated duration of service is 4 weeks.
Experts' Tasks
36.       The staff of the consultant will have advisory positions and their
task will include the followings
(a)  to make recommendations and assist in the design of and carrying out
of the surveys to be performed in order to establish the flows of
goodsl
(b) to assist in the preparation of periodical reports and ensure that
the reporting adequately describes progreso of work;
(c) to assist during visits to the field in the process of fact-finding
with transport orgLnizations and appropriate provincial government
agencies.
(d)  to assist in the analyses of data and information gathered during
the Study period. Furthermore, assist in preparing recommendations
for corrective measures that will be contained in the Final Report.
(e) prepare and carry out seminars with regard to Transport Management
and to Survey;
(f) assist HSRI with a comparison with other countries with regard to
regulatory systems and other aspects5 and
(g)  to offer technical assistance and other relevant issues of the
Study, including suitable literature.



- 74 -                              ANNEX 2
P. Sutoort to be Provided by the Provincial Government
37.       BSRI wlll provide the Study team including the management and the
support personnel as well as all required equipment facilities. HSRI will
also provide the consultants vith lodging, food and transport during their
stay in Henan Province.



- 75-                              ANNEX 4
CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rnvironmental Assessament/Manaaement/Monitorint Summarv for the ExOreasway--
Provincial. County end Rural Road Comvonents of the Proiect
A.   Environmental Aiseesment. Zhengzhou-Louvan. Exoresswav
Backgroundt
1.        On June 1989, the Scientific Research Institute of Environmental
Protection of Henan Province (USRIEP) submitted an environmental assessment
(EA) of construction and operation of a proposed expressway link between
Raifeng end Luoyang to the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) of
China. The Bank has been asked to support the section of this expressway,
known as State Highway 310, that runs from Zhengzhou to Luoyang.
2.        The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assess-
ment of development projects in China followed during preparation and evalua-
tion of this EA included the following:
(a) Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Projects of PRC, 1986;
(b) Regulations for Engineering Design on Environmental Protection of
Construction projects, 1987;
(c) Directive No. 17 of the Ministry of Communications, PRC/1990, Man-
agement Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction Proj-
ects; and
(d) Management Procedures for Environmental Protection of Construction
Projects, NEPA, 1990.
3.        A project proponsnt is required to undertake, directly or through a
technical institution, an Initial Environmental Analysis for submission to the
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau at the prefeasibility stage of a
highway proposal. for major infrastructure projects, the next step is the
preparation of en ZL. Only specially licensed institutions can undertake UAs
in China. A completed EA would be submitted to the MOC for preevaluation,
which ia uormUlly done by a panel of experts including representatives of
NEPA. NEPA's clearance of the HA is required for projects costing more than Y
200 million end for obtaining SPC's approval to go ahead with the engineering
design for proposed highway projects.
4.        The above-outlined internal procedures were followed for the
Kaifeng-Luoyng Expressway before the project was bro -ht to the Bank for
possible financial support. The EA and environmental action plan for the
Eprossway were submitted to the Bank before the preappraisal mission left for
China in October 1991. The Bank's review and commenta on these reports was



- 76 -                              AM= 4
provided to the Henan Provitncial Government in the Preappraisal Aide Memoire.
A detailed archeological survey expanding the EA, and a final RAP incorporat-
ing .he Bank's comments on the earlier draft, was submitted to the Bank in
February 1992. A sumnary of these documents follows.
Baseline Environmental Description
5.        Toi,ooraihv and Climate.  The propcsed Kaifeng-Luoyang Expressway
originates in Kaifeng County, passing the Henan Plain and into the hilly land
of Sishue. It then pa.ses successively through six loeoss soil valleys of
Liaoyu, Yingyu, Jingou, Luokougou, Shayugou, and Rencunogou.  Further uestward
it again enters hilly land and crosses the Yiluo River west of the Gongxian
County Seat. It will then enter the proposcd Kangdian Tunnel, finally passing
into a loess soil area and ending at the Village of Dongtouzhuang. Generally,
the relief is greater along the western section of the Expressway than in the
east.
6.        Henan Province is the natural demarcation line between the northern
and southern weather patterns of China. The climate experienced along most of
the ROW is generally warm/mild, with semi-dry and semi-damp continental mon-
soonal seasons. Average temperature is 14.6 degrees centigrade in Luoyang,
with average wind speed in this location of 3.1 m/second. The main wind
directioD along most of the ROW is generally north-northwest (13 percent) with
the second most common wind direction being from the south (10 percent),
although the second most comnon wind direction in the Luoyang area is yes-
terly. The rainfall along the ROW also seems to be relatively uniforL. Maxi-
mum 24 hour recorded rainfall was 110.7 mm in Luoyang, 189.4 mm in Zhongzhou,
and 176.5 mm in Kaifeng. Snow is a factor of the local climate, and the aver-
age number of days in wbich measurable snow fall can be expected, based on
previous records, is 14.8 in Zhengzhou, 12.3 in Kaifeng, and 13.9 in Luoyang.
7.        Air Oualitv.  Although the Expressway passes through agricultural
lands, air quality can occasionally suffer from elevated suspended particu-
lates (dust) concentrations. The greatest expression of this is during sand
and dust storms. The number of days of sand and dust storms is 1.7 in
Luoyang, 7.2 in Zhengzhou, and 10.6 in Kr'feng. Despite the occasional prob-
lems with dust, the air quality along the ROW can generally be described as
good.
8.        Hvdroloav and Water Oualitv.  All rivers in the Henan Plain area
have been realigned through previous river training projects and are heavily
utilized to condition alkali soils, improve drainage and prevent flooding, and
for irrigation. Surface waters in the loess storm valleys mentioned above art
ephemeral, flowing only during the wet season. These rivers experience flash
floods on a regular basis. The surface waters near the ROW have already been
polluted by municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes. The Yiluo, Jialu,
and Shidao Rivers are badly polluted because of industrial waste and sewage
discharges.
9.        The groundwater quality of groundwater along and adjacent to the ROW
has generally been found, following sampling and analysis, to be within the
drinking water standards of the gc7ernment. The exceptions are excess fluo-
ride in Wangfuzhai and Kaifeng.



-77-                                ANNE  4
10.       Pulation.  There are 50 villages, with tpproximate total popula-
tion of 70,000, along or near the proposed expressway ROW. The most common
land use in this area is agricultural, which explains the relatively low popu-
lation density. The greatest numbers of people along the proposed ROW are
located in Shihuiwu, Baisha, northern Gongxian County Seat, and the Kangdian
area. This 9-km section of the Expressway accounts for 30 percent of the
total population found to reside along the ROW.
II.       Cultural and Archeolosical Aspects.  The Expressway will pass near
or through areas having significant cultural and archeological value. The
main historic relic and scenic sites in the area within or near the ROW that
were included in the RA evaluation includes
*    Dahecun Ancient Village Sites which are the sites of Yangshuo
culture. This area is located approximately 400 m southeast of
the planned Liulin interchange in the city of Zhengzhou;
*    Han Dynasty Tomb area from point "k202" of the proposed
expressway to the end of thi' section of State Highway 310
(otherwise known as "section LO" of the Bank supported section
of expressway). The Expressway would pass through an area
containing many earthen tombs constructed during the Han Dynas-
ty. This area is an identified cultural relic unit under
state-level protection;
*    Sanshilipu Cultural Relic and Scenic Site.  This area is near
the Luoyang grade separation bridge.
Imnact Analysis
12.       It was determined that the most significent impacts that could
result from construction and operation of the Raifeng-Luoyang Expressway would
includes
*    Physical destruction of natural habitat, cultural relics and
historic sites, homes, businesses end infrastructure within the
ROW;
*    Pollution resulting from vehicle exhaust emission caused by
increased vehicle movements along the Expressway;
*    Increase of noise in the area of the ROW because of construc-
tion activities and because of increased traffic volume moving
at speed during expressway operation, and its impact on areas
of human habitation and congregation;
*    Potential pollution of surface and ground waters during con-
struction end operation (particularly from expressway service
areas);
*    Potential increase in frequency end duration of flooding epi-
sodes resulting from expressway intersection of natural drain-
age lines; and



-78 -                              ANNh   4
*    Public health and safety, and economic damage resulting from
construction related road traffic and traffic jame.
Environmental ManaRement Planning
13.       Route Location.  Five routes were originally considered during the
feasibility study of the Kaifeng-Luoyang Expressway. The basis for route
selection of alternative 3 (proposed expressway) was on economic and technical
grounds, including avoidance of population centers and identified tombs and
archasologic sites of significance.
14.       Cultural/Archaeolosical Issues.  Because of the archeological impor-
tance of section 10 of the Expressway (the archaeologic zone), the hGHCA has
decided to start work on this section as soon as possible. This would allow
more time to slow or temporarily stop construction should items of historic or
cultural value be found in the ROW. Because of the importance of this area,
the HGHCA agreed during Preappraisal to conduct an expanded survey of the
archaeologic zone of the Expressway. The survey subsequently done covered an
area approximately 14 km long and 46 m wide. Test bores were drilled within
this area as a means of identifying tombs. The Cultural Relics Research
Institute employed to conduct this Purvay used a total of 450 people who
drilled 1,470,000 test bores along the study area. The survey resulted in the
discovery, excavation and recovery of historical relics from 133 undiscovered
tombs along the ROW. The National Cultural Relics Protection Law and the
Henan Province Cultural Relics Implementation Clause of this law wuuld require
all construction activities to cease if an antiquity site was discovered dur-
ing expressway construction. The policies and actions followed by the hGHCA
and related agencies comply with the Bank's policy on the preservation of
archeological sites.
15.       Hvdrologv Mad Water Ouality.  The design of the Expressway will
allow unhindered passage of a 1 in 100 year return flood, with major bridges
being designed to pass 1 in 300 year return floods.  There are to be 457 cul-
verts along the proposed expressway, for an average of 2.3 culverts per km.
Water is also to be spread over remolded and exposed soils four times par day
during dry weather. Contractors are to construct and satisfactorily maintain
septic tanks for offices, temporary accommodation and other sites containing
ablution facilities. Storage (especially fuels), warehouses, laydown areas
are to be sited away from surface waters and provided with ring drain. and
soak pits to prevent accidental spills from reaching surface waters.
16.       Air and Noise Oualitv Issues.  Control of dust during construction
would consist of staging of work to avoid unnecessarily exposing soils to wind
and rain erosion. Asphalt mixing plants must be more than 1,000 m from areas
of human habitation and congregation if located upwind of these areas. Con-
struction activities in areas of human habitation and congregation are to be
limited to between the hours of 6 am and 10 pm. Cement-bound aggregate mixing
planto, materials stores and warehouses, stone crushing and screening machines
are to be sot up far from areas of human habitation and congregation. The
works for constructing noise barriere to control operational noise levels are
included in the bid documents for the Expresaway. Those noise barriers are to
be constructed at nine locations along the Expreosway, with total length being
2,505 m (Table 1). Where necessary, special graded pavement will also be used



-79 -                              ANNEX 4
Table 1s LOCATION AND LENGTH OF SOUND SCREENS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED TO CONTROL TRAFFIC NOISE
IN SENSITIVE AREAS
Location of sound screen                                      Length
(metors)
Hendongcun Village, Zh.ngzhou                                   200
Xuzhai, Zingyang County                                         200
Sishui, Xingyang County                                         385
Renxingou, Xingyang County                                      200
Luokou, Gongyi City                                             150
Shayugou, Gongyi City                                           300
Wayaougou, ECongyi City                                         670
C&ngxi, Gongyi City                                             100
Kangdian, Gongyi City                                           300
Total                                                   2.505
to minimize tire noise caused by heavy tra  lic along sensitive areas along the
Expresavay.
17.       It wva  determined from numerical mod*lling that pollutants sourced
from vehicle exhausts would be only a minor issue, as the model and existing
literature suggests that deposition of problem ions such as lead is very lim-
ited and localized. Trees will be planted to minimize these problems outside
the area of the ROW.
I8.      Miscellaneous Nmnatemnt Actions. All borrow and quarry sites to be
used during construction of the Expressway have been surveyed by the Provin-
cial Environmental Protection Bureau. A list of these areas that can be
exploited for xpreosway construction in an environmentally acceptable way has
been prepared and included in the bid documents. The bid documents specify
that only material from environmentally acceptable quarries can be used. New
quarries and borrov pits specifically opened by the successful contractors are
to be located in barren hills and rehabilitated after use.
!9.      Transport of dangerous goods along the Expressway must first be
approved by the public security, fire protection and traffic departments.
Policing of hazardous materials movement along the Expressway will be a func-
tion of the HGHCA. A contingency plan for i-dling hazardous materials acci-
dents hasJ been prepared by the BGHCA.
20.       Appendix 1 presents a summary of environmental management measures
required, along with the organization responsible for Implementing or monitor-
ing effectiveness of the management measure. Where the management measure
deals specifically with construction and the construction contractor, the
relevent clause In the bid documents is also listed. Table 2 is a sumary
list of investment proposed for environmental protection.



-     80-                           ANNEX 4
Table 2: PROPOSED INVESTMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Item                                    Unit           Quantity           Cost
Afforestation of expressway ROW          trees          117,439         $108,000
Grass (sod) planting                     m2           1,302,005         $240,000
Monitoring stations                                           2          $74,000
Monitoring equipment                                         /a         $280,000
Training costs                           people              10           $9,300
Sound screens                            m                2,505         $140,000
la See Table 3.
Environmental Monitorina
21.       Construction monitoring of the "archeological zone," section 10, of
the Expressway (the section started before loan negotiations) will require
interim environmental monitoring measures to be taken. This is because train-
ing, institutional strengthening and equipment to be provided under the Henan
Highway Project, and the permanent monitoring orgailzation within the HGHCA,
will not be available when construction starts on this section.
22*       A temr- ary section will be created within the structural organiza-
tion of the Ceni. al Laboratory of the Joint Supervision set up to suporvise
the construction of the Expresswey. This group will monitor the environment
along section 10 of the Expressway during construction, and report results to
the supervising engineer of the works. The activities and capabilities of
this group would be expanded to include the entire expressway once the Henan
Highway Project loan becomes effective. The senior staff of this temporary
environmental office will be seconded frow the Henan Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau, as needed.
23.       Environmental monitoring of expressway construction and operation
will include regular dust, noise, traffic surveillance, effects of vehicle
exhaust emission on air quality, accumulation in food crops, and surface and
ground water quality. Once all construction begins, the environmental section
of the Central Laboratory of the Supervision Department will be expanded
(para. 17) and strengthened to include environmental monitoring of the whole
length of the Zhangzhou-Luoyang Expressway. This would include purchase of at
least some of the field monitoring equipment to be funded under the loan
(Table 3). The head of the Environmental Department will report to the Joint
Supervision Team of the Hr"CA and to the environmental committee of HPCD
(which reports, in turn, to the Environmental Committee of Henan Province).
Once the Expressway is completed and onerational, the environmental group
within the Central Laboratory of the Supervision Office can be transferred to
the newly created Environmental Department of the HGHCA (Figure 1). GOC ambi-
ent air and water quality standards are presented in Tables 4, 5 and 6).
e



- 81 -                             ANNKX 4
Table 3s ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING EQUIPMENT FOR THE TWO PERMANENT
MONITORING STATIONS ALONG THE ZHENGZHOU-LUOYANG EXPRESSWAY
Equipment description                                          Number
KM-6A atmospheric sampler                                       20
Spectrophotometer                                                1
Infrared analyzer                                                1
KB-102 high-volume air sampler                                  20
ND-10 sound classifier                                          10
Survey vehicle (mobile lab)                                      2
Passenger vehicle (transport of survey staff)                    2
Atomic absorption spectrophotometer                              1
B&K automatic environmental noise toeter                         1
Ultraviolet spectrophotometer                                    1
Balance, oven, electric stove (sa.)                              4
Computer                                                         2
Table 4t  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSHENT AND ACTION PLAN FOR THE ZHENGZHOU-LUOYANG
EXPRESSWAY ATMOSPHERIC QUALITY STANDARDS (GB 3095-82)
Pollutant                          Concentrotion limit (malstandard cu m)
Fetching Time      Class I st.      Class II st.     Class III at.
SPN         Daily average             0.15              0.30               0.50
Any time                  0.30              1.00               1.50
TSP         Daily average             0.05              0.15               0.25
Any time                  0.15              0.50               0.70
SO2         Annual daily avg.         0.02              0.06               0.10
Daily average             0.05              0.15               0.25
Any tim                   0.15              0.50               0.70
NO.         Daily average             0.05              0.10               0.15
Any time                  0.10              0.15               0.30
CO          Hourly average            4.00              4.00               6.00
10.00             10.00             20.00
03                                    0.12              0.16               0.20



-82 -                               AMR 4
Table 5s ANBIENT NOISE STANDARDS FOR URBAN AREAS (GB 3096-82)
(unitt Leq (dB)]
Area Applied                     Daytime  Night   Remarks
Special residentlal                '5      35     Designated as quiet
Residential and educational
quarters                         50      40     Purely residential and educa-
tional and institutional
areas
Category I mixed areas             55      45     Ordinary-mixed residential
with commercial areas
Downtown, Category II mixed area  60       50     Concentrated commercial, and
mixed industrial and residen-
tial areas
Concentrated industrial area       70      55
Both sides of traffic arteries    65       55     Traffic > 100 veh/h
Table s: CLASSIFICATION OF WATER QUALITY
Classification        1st Class   2nd Class   3rd Class   4th Class   5th Class
Composite Index          <0.25    0.25-0.5    0.5-0.75    0.75-2.0       2.0-3.0
B.   Environmental Assessment. Provincial and Rural Roads in NW Henan and RIP
Bhcktround
24.       The RIP will involve Bank financing of rural road projects, many of
which will not be identified or fully prepared before the Henan Provincial
Highway project is brought to the Bank's Board for review. This programmatic
approach to the rural road component of the project requires that an environ-
mental assesment process be developed to ensure that subprojects submitted to
the Bank for funding under the loan include adequate consideration of possible
project impact on the environment.
Envlroinmettal Assment
25.       §anmenxia Road  NA Most of the Provincial, County and rural roads
to be supported under the loan will involve work in an existing ROW, although



- 83 -                              A     4ZL&
it is possible that some rural roads within the RIP component with significant
new construction may be considered at some time during the loan disbursement
period. The Provincial road from Samenxia to the provincial border is an
exception as about 27 km of it will be built on a new alignment. The HSRIEP
prepared, on behalf of the HGOCA, an HA and EAP for this provincial road. The
EA was reviewed by the Appraisal Mission and found to be acceptable. The
nearest cultural/scenic area to the proposed ROW is the Miaodigon cultural
ruins. It is more than 1,000 m away from the ROW, and no impact is expected.
Major environmental management recomundations included in the EAP were:
*    The need to protect approximately 2,000 people living within 30
m of the road from potential noise impacts expected during road
operation to be accomplished either through erection of sound
*creens or by resettling them away from the problem areas;
*    Provision in the bid document to spread water on exposed soils
to control dust;
*    Construction activity to be strictly controlled between 10 p.m.
and 6 a.m. in areas of human congregation and habitation;
*    Bitumen mixing plants to be sited at lcast 1,000 m upwind of
areas of human habitation and congregation;
*    Contractors will be required to ccnstruct and operate septic
tenks where ablution facilities aro included as part of con-
struction support facilitieos
*    Borrow end quarry areas are to be located in barren hills and
those opened specifically for the project are to be rehabili-
tated after use; and
*    Transport of dangerous goods along the road must be approved by
the public security, fire protection, and traffic departments.
26.       Road Imnrovement Protrem HA   The RIP component of the project will
therefore require the preparation of a Sectoral Environmental Assessment
(SEA). This SUA would:
*    Present a screening process designed to identify subprojects
having potentially significant issues that would neqed to be
addressed in a subproject specific EA from those that would be
unlikely to have significant impact on the environment;
*    Present a general assessment of the kinds of impacts that might
be associated with the different types (road widening, pavement
improvement? traffic bottleneck alleviation, etc) of rural road
subprojecte; and
*    Develop a Sectoral Environmental Action Plar dstailing actions
that would be Implemented to eliminate, minimixe to acceptable
levels or mitigato the minor Impacts identified in the SEA.



-84-                                A X 4
27.       The objective of the environmental screening in the SEA will be to
separate the RIP subprojects into one of two categories:
(a)  Cate orv  Ono    Subprojects that only include improvement/rehabilits-
tion of roads within an existing ROW, minor realignment that might
be needed for localiled improvement of a traffic "bottleneck", and
those not within or affecting environmentally sensitive areas L/
i.e., subprojects with no potentially significant environmental
impact; and
(b)  Cateoor   Iwo    Subprojects that require substantial widening and/or
acquisition of new ROW. This would primarily include roads on new
alignments (especially new penetration road.) and, in general, sub-
vroiects with oorentiallv adverse imoact on environmentally sensi-
tive areas.
28.       For category one subprojects, the SEAP would be applied during engi-
neering design and implementation phase. Each category one subproject will
have an HAP and RAP (resettlement action plan) attached as one of the prepara-
tion sections describing the project. The elements of the EAP would be drawn
directly from the SEAP, and not prepared on a subproject specific basis. The
RAP would likewise be a small, simple document as subprojects in this category
would not be likely to require acquisition of land. Category two subprojects
will require a complete EA and the preparation of a detailed, kubproject spe-
cific EAP.
29.       The generic SEA is possible for the majority of subprojects within
the RIP, and for the provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan other than
the Sanmenxia-Borders Road, because the subproject types proposed are simple
with few, and easily identifiable impacts. Those Impacts that may be identi-
fied would therefore be easy to remedy. Hovever, where a new ROW is required,
or when a subproject is to be implemented within an environmentally sensitive
area, a subproject specific EA with detailed EAP will be required. Prepara-
tion of th SEA/SEAP will be a collaborative effort between the Highway Admin-
lstration Bureau (HAB) and the Environmental Protection Bureau of Henan Prov-
ince. The H4B will provide details regarding specific project activities
within each type of rural road subproject to be included in the RIP, and the
Environmental Protection Bureau will determine the likely impacts expected
from each of these individual activities. The SEASEAP is to be sent to the
Bank for review at least one month before loan negotiations. Disbursement on
any subnroiect in the RIP will be dependent on Bank review of the EA, environ-
mental action and resettlement action ulans.
1/ An environmentally sensitive area is tentatively described as including
zones of significant human hiubitation (urbanized areas, residential con-
contrations, hospitals, schools, commercial and market complexes), eco-
logically important zones such as wetlands, forests, or any area rela-
tively unaltered by humans (i.e., an areA that is described by DOC
National/Provincial Environmental Protection Agencv/Bureaus as being in a
"natural" state), archeological/historical/cultural sites, and terrain
with slope greater than 50 percent--especially when soils are erodible
and if near surfaco waters.



- 85 -                              AMNL 4
30.       The responsibility for preparing and implementing the SEA and its
guidelines rests with HAB.
Environmental Monitorina
31.       Since works under the provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan
end RIP components of the project are under the authority of BAB, a separate
structural and institutional organization from that established for expressway
monitoring is needed to implement environmental monitoring.
32.       An environmental unit  1ll be created within the Quality Control
Examination Center of HAB to administer and provide high level support for
environmontal monitoring of provincial and rural road construction and opera-
tion. Local *mnironmental monitoring responsibilities will rost with the
Prefectural Branch Office of the Supervision Office. If a local Branch Office
is weak or doesn't have equipment, it will be assisted by the Prefectural
Environmental Protection Bureau.
Table 7: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING EQUIPMENT FOR THE PERMANENT
MONITORING STATIONS ALONG THE 8ANMENXIA TO THE
PROVINCIAL BORDER ROAD (AND RIP MONITORING STATION)
EQUIPMENT DESCRIPTION                                           NUMBER
KB-6A gas sampler                                                 6
Spectrophotometer                                                 1
Infrared analyzer                                                 1
KB-120 high-volume Air Sampler                                    6
Atomic absorption spectrophotometer                               1
ND-10 sound level meter                                           6
Ultraviolet spectrophotometer                                     1
Balance, incubator, electric furnace (ea.)                        4
Computer                                                          I
Meteorologic multipurpose observation Unit                        6
Vehicle                                                           1
33.       The environmental unit within the Quality Control Examination Center
of BAB will be equipped, through the loan, to fulfill its environmental moni-
toring role, and to support the Prefectural Branch Offices of the Supervision
Office set up to supervise construction of roads in northwest Henan and RIP.
The list suggested by the RAB can be found in Table 7. The local Supervision
Branch Offices would compile monitoring information and report to the local
Supervising Engineers Office and to the Quality Control Examination Center so
that appropriate management recommendations could be made and remedial actions
token.



86                                 ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
2I
d a
131          11{iIQ



IIENAN PROVINCIAL IUCIIWAY PROJECT
SummrY of Key Elsent of EmaMevWa Action  la
For Z    _sw.bo  - Lunt Exressav
EwAf_ 1 1mw bsue               Me_s tskenlto be taken                           Responsible Entity          Clause of Bid Document    Renrk
and lKme in block, yas  sealed with can; wet  Siot sprvigio  stafif&
deAligwil be appied to Aunel fomation &       JEMT
vendistion, dut & Vs conuol wil be weft
a-uvw.
Conteracdr, site supevision
(c) Ashalt pla  hall be placed wiward 1000      saff & JEMT                 Clws 901.02
mee away in  populated ata.
2. Nis pontion                   (d) Minim.. dud, wate  & air pe11tdon           C:ontact, RSS & 1PM?        Cluse 29.2
(e) Co _acio equpmen & connction avities        Cotiractor, RSS & JBE T     Oau  901.02
wich genete excessive   ma ne     dei
ar, will be limt  to daylih hours & ad
alowed to yos betwen 10:00 p.m. & 6.00 a.m.
(M Mine nois prduced by         c     c         Coractr, RSS h JET          Clus 29.2                                                        co
advMtsn  m idemm are. s-
3. Wate poUution                    Conatetiowase water, was  duiyloil foa        Contracto, RSS & IEMT      Chuse 902.02
tuan £ sewegrae fremfing questers  a
na be  owed todea d i t fids, soues of
ddakig war, inipton   wme or waer
resvoi                                        Coeactor, RSS & JE&f       Cls 903
Ot) Teaqoalnag will be provided for cum &
fils and mabiied reguly.
Of Mitain    epedo ion Of eising    t           Contractor, RSS A  EMT      Clae 29.2
system &   habltae & mainain do ysm.
Dung & was n            frw  the dsit wi be
tat-, to avid damag to naby chamel, filds
& buis.
4. 7Taffic geneated risk (cnl      To the exted possible bi e trott access to   Conteactr, RSS & IEM1        Cae 103.02
ofed  taffic te alae             slseve cogsion h conrl trafic t low  peak
.ooeetiw  ouAmine mois aNW       bow traflic.
_o _m i_
dr pll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
t1 D V4



-.88-          ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
A
iml~~~~~~.I
.3g             U
lid  i il,ll   a tifill 
~~~. S
ii 1



HENA4 PROVINCIAL MIIGIIWkY PROJECT
For Umpbou - Ltem ExDwewn
EAvimameWW lmMnmw" takcno be "ken                                               Reaonal Entity             Cue of Bid DoanneT  Raen
S. Opetion  _         1! Mcnlmiq of CO, N4O  TSP, water quafty,    d                 artough  ab o_in
ml. & vlbntloo& otaoaaty ad daiy            liation
modouing of eoz. and hydro carbon on Ig-
Mem bek.
Eavirimnsl  aectia Of
(U) Deagtionof a apecigrl   to hanl t anqpot  de futu  High Grade
of hambdms conoditsa &eaidMe.                ighway Adantimuon
OD
-o.
l.



- 90 -                             ANNE  S
CHIPNA
EIMAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Resettlement Action Plane
A. Zhenazhou-Luovana Exnresswav
Routs Location and Imact
1        SThe expressway between Zhengzhou and Luoyang (the second stage of
the expressway between Kaifeng and Luoyang of the No. 310 National Road)
starts east from Liulin, Jinshui district of Zhengzhou and ends vest in
Dongguanzhuang village, Chaoyang township of Mengjin county of Luoyang city.
The alinement for the Expressway was selected to avoid densely populated areas
and minimize the acquisition of agricultural lands. A total of 780.04 ha of
land will be acquired for the project of about 0.61 petcent of the total area
of various towns along the expressway. The cultivated area to be acquired for
the expressway is 725.25 ha, about 1.1 percent of the total cultivated area of
the towns along the expressway. Of the 11,523 persons affected by land acqui-
sition, 48 percent are economically active. The affected population is pri-
marily engagod in farming but during the nonfarming season most people also
engage in sideline occupations such as construction work. Approximately, 348
households (8.60 percent) will be affected by land acquisition end house
removal. The removal of houses will affect 1,252 households, 30 percent of
households (5,527 people) and 11 enterprises and institutions (195 people).
Policy Basis of Lend Acquisition and Resettlement
2.        The province follows the Lend Administration Law of PRC and its own
regulations for land acquisition and resettlement. However, for initiating
action on land acquisition end resettlement for major highway projects the
provinces involved are required to obtain the approval of the feasibility
study recommendations and MOC's approval of the preliminary engineering
design. Approval has to be sought from the National Land Administration
Bureau if over 1,000 mu of agricultural land is being acquired.
Compensation Policies
3.        Based on the above, compensation provisions are applied to both the
expressway coIponent (project) end the provincial and rural roads components
of the proposed project:
Lend Compensations      6x the average annual output value of the land
acquired in the preceding three years.
Crop Compensation:      0.3x the average annual output value of the land
acquired in the preceding three years.



- 91 -                              ANNX 5
Xesettlem_nt Subsidys   3x the average annual output value of the land
acquired in the preceding three years.
Compensation fees for crops are paid to the individual owners.
4.        Land compensation fees and reeettlement subsidies are paid to
county, township or village governments and used collectively.  Enterprises
that absorb surplus labor are entitled to resettlement subsidies to meet the
cost of taking on new labor. The comnpenation fees are used to develop the
villages and -ay be spent on land reclamation, road development, pump wells
and establishing new village or township enterprises.  The local village com-
mittees are expected to submit a plan for using the compensation monies to the
township governments.
5.        Compensation for personal belongings are calculated according to
local regulations and meet the costs of replacing lost houses, trees, tombs
and wells. Land for reconstructing houses are provided within the same vil-
lage and individual owners are responsible for replacing houses. A resettle-
ment subsidy of Y 50 per person is paid to Souseholds that are affected by
house removal.
6.        Compensation is also paid for removal and replacement of power and
transmission lines. The managing units are responsible for replacement.
7.        The following unit prices had been used for estimating the costs of
compensation:
Item                                    Unit                Unit Price
(Yuan)
Building (brick)                         ma                     120
more than one floor                      ml                     160
Simple house                             ma                      40
Cave (pitching with brick or stone)      ma                     100
Surfacing with lime                      m                       s
Tomb (1 coffin)                                                 100
Well (hilly area)                      40 m                  10,000
(Y 150 for each extra moter beyond 40 meters)
Well (flat area)                       40 m                   3,000
(Y 120 for every meter beyond 40 meters)



-92-                                ANX 5
Resettlement Procedurea
8.        Investigation of ComDansation Standards.  HGHCA, the responsible
provincial athority for resettlement activities of the Expressway, carried
out the investigation of compensation parameters for various counties along
the route and aubmitted the report for approval to the National Land Bureau in
November 1991, The investigation was carried out with the assistance of the
local land bureaus, local government officials and the village leaders. The
total compensation coat is estimated ut Y 83.45 million (Appendices 1 and 2 of
this Annex).
Oraanizational Arran"lements
9.        Provincial Level.  The Coordination Department of HGHCA with four
staff member. is responsible for supervising land acquisition and resettlement
for the Expressway.
10.       City Level.  City level reeettlement offices are set up with 10-15
staff members. The city level officers work with the land management depart-
ments to implement land acquisition and resettlement in the cities, counties
and districts.
1i.       County Level.  County le'el resettlement departments have 4 to 5
staff members and are responsible for organizing subordinate township and
village governments to undertake activities related to land acquisition and
resettlement.
12.       Townshio Level.  The township level departments are staffed with 3
to 4 staff members and 2 staff members for each village. They are responsible
for disbursing compensation for crops and private property and for planning
new residential quarters for those whose houses will be demolished.
13.       Survey of the Rijht-of-WaI (ROW).  The survey of the ROW for the
Expressway was assigned to the two major cities along the Expressway,
Zhengz*ou and Luoyang. The provincial authority has signed land acquisition
agreements with the city governments and the people's governments in December
1991. Once the local surveys are completed, records are prepared in unified
format and submitted to the county level for final verification and then for-
warded to the city land acquisition and resettlement offices for review and
then reported to the Provincial Authority.
14.       Contracts.  The agreements authorizing land acquisition were signed
between the RGHCA and the various local governments and land bureaus. On
January 7, 1992, the Land Administration Bureau approved the land acquisition
for the highway.
i5.       Comoletion of ROW Acauisition and Resettlement.  Acquisition of
land, payment of compensation and demolition of houses and resettlement will
be completed by March 1993. Resettlement through land adjustment is complete
in Contract Section No. 10 (archeological area) for which an early start is
xpected. Other. will commence on a phased program, targeted for completion
in the first quartor of 1993.



-93 -                               AEELS
B. Provincial and Rural Road. in Northwest Hen-n
16,       The compensation standards, organization arrangements and resettle-
ment procedures adopted are similar to those of the Expressway. The total
compensation coat is estimated at Y 17.7 million. The Highway Administration
Bureau (BAB) of the Henan Provincial Department of Communications is In over-
all charge.
17.       The provincial and rural roads in northwest Henan involve 11 coun-
ties and 35 townships and will require 246.05 ha of land. A total of 1,026
households and 4,874 persons of whom 60 percent are economically active will
be affected by the projects.
C   Road Improvement Proaram
18.       As this component is not yet well defined, a reliable estimate of
the people affected by the various subprojects in RIP cannot be made at this
stage. However, an understanding was reached'with HPCD during project prepa-
ration that the land acquisition, resettlenent and compensation procedures to
be followed would be the same as that applied for the Expressway, which ha
been satisfactory. The respective actions to be taken regarding land acquisi-
tion and resettlement would be outlined in RAPs and correlated with the prepa-
ration of the engineering and evaluation process for the subproject packages,
requiring submission for Bank approval for financing under the project.
Assurances would be obtained from HPCD at negotiations that RAPs for subproj-
ects under the RIP would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Monitorin_ of Resettlement
19.       The monitoring of the effectiveness and the socioeconomic impacts of
resettlement on the population will be undertaken by the Land Management
Bureau jointly with HGHCA in case of the Expressway and with HAB in the case
of the remaining roads. The monitoring teams would include qualified social
scientists acceptable to the Bank. Monitoring reports for the Expressway and
other roads would be submitted to the Bank by December 15, 1993 and by the
same date for the following two years (1994 and 1995).



-94 -                                    AM          5
MENg PROVINCIAL 3I0RWA  PRJBCT
Households ad ft2gbtion to be Relocatet l'oB   th- Zbennrhou-Luovans 1xzr teava
Number        go. of
Land                  *conmi-        persons
City, county (diatrict),                go. of     to be                    calby      not *conomi-
township villap                       h,u.eholds  acquired  Popllation      active     caly active
(mu)                (population)
Zhengzhou, Xinfyang Wauguhuang,
Hancun                                  20      1,410.36        91          49             42
Si9hul, Qinsjlggou                       35      2,994.0        191          90            101
Slehuishen                                28      2,205.1        175          98             77
vujianin                                  25      2,241.3        141          71             70
Zhougou                                   33      2,816.1        165          82            83
Nantun                                   105      8,861.0        566         274            292
Shilibao                                 119     10,331.5        496         248            248
Liaoyu                                    44      3,745.82       220         102            11
subtotal                            409     34.606.38    2.045        1014          1.031
Gon3 yl City, Shayugou, YTagyu            20      2,229           82          38             44
Jingou                                    24      2,553           86          39             47
Luokou                                    75      6,854          309         145            164
Shayugou                                  83      7,552          336         162            174
R.ucungou                                 32      3,999          124          60             64
Huo                                       20      2,267           78          37            41
Tanxiaogan                                20      2,325           69          34            35
LUOUi                                      5        407.5         25          12             13
Zhanjieshan Cangxl                        45      4,004          168          31            37
10y7o                                      1        199            4           2              2
Deiya0wan                                162     13,264.7        719         353           366
Xiaoyilhen Longvel                        39      3,418          180          87             93
Shlhuiwu                                  69      7,631.8        265         127            138
Xangd1an Kangbel                         169     22,689.5        707         347            360
YeLing                                     11     2,585           94          47             47
Subtotal                            78      81.978.S     3.246        1.S71         L.67S
Total                           1JAM       116.5S4.88     I2M         2.S85         2.706
Luoyang, Yanshl, Shanhua, Iayoudlan       50      5,889          195          92            103
Neva                                       7        439.17        41          19             22
Total                                Sz      6.328.17       236        1l1            12
GRAMD jOtAL                       1.251    122.913.0S    S.527        2.696          MM
Sourcs ROHCM.



fRO    WIMIAL BIO 1Y
Land, Acaniltion and IeettLant Camuenatio  S_najv
(inu millon. of Yuans)
Fund for Nanas
land & mentlprepa-
City, county               Number of          Reset-   Young  Sub-   mdlvi-  Collec-  State-  Sub-    rolo-    ration
(district)                hectares   Land  tlement   crops  total  dual          tive      run    total  cation   fund (52)   Total
JSnahul, Zbengshou            54.1     2.73    1.37      0.14   4.24    0.21      0.78     1.12      2.11    6.35       0.32       6.67
Nangehan, Zhng2hou            25.2     1.28    0.64      0.06   1.98   0.14       0.21     2.71      3.06    5.04       0.25        5.29
Zbonguan, Zbhngshou           56.3     2.88    1.44      0.14   4.46    0.12      0.59     0.45      1.16    5.62       0.28       5.90
lingyang, Zhengzhou          202.4    6.22    4.67       0.47  11.36    4.55      4.15     1.62     10.32   21.68        1.08     22.76
Gengal, Zhengzbou            169.8     5.22    3.91      0.39   9.52    9.20      2.34     2.56      14.10  23.62        1.18      24.80
Tanshi, Luoyang              129.2     3.18    2.39      0.24   5.81    1.07      1.00     1.18      3.25    9.06       0.45        9.51
,end In, Luoyan8             142.5     3.52    2.64      0.26   6.42    0.19      0.48     1.02       1.69   8.11        0.41      8.52
%O
Total                   779.5    25.03   17.06      1.70 43.79   15.48       9.55    10.66     35.69   79.48       3.97      83.45
Notet The share of 30 percent of farmlsnd-occupying tax turned over to the State 1s Y 374.49 mllion.  The find for survey and
excavation of historic relics is   3.5804 million. The above two funds are not included in the table.
Source  EICD.
Ius



-96 _                               AM. 6
Cal
RL3- BIGHWAY PROJECT
Imnlementation Schedule
This annex presents the implementation schedule for the va:'iouo
components of the project. Appendix 1 *umarizes the overall lmplementation
schedule for the project as a whole. Appendix 2 shows the detailed implemen-
tation schedule for Contract Section 10 (Archeological Zone), remaining four
contract sections of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expreosway to be constructed by
ICB, administration and maintenance buildings end service areas, and ele-
trical and mechanical works for the Expressway. Appendix 3 depicts the
detailed Implementation schedule for the supervision of construction of the
Expressway. Appendix 4 sumarizes the detailed Implementation schedule for
the five provincial roads in northwest Henan, whereas Appendix 5 summarizes
the similar schodule for the six rural roads in northwest Henan. The imple-
mentation schedule for the first package of RIP will be developed when the
subprojects in this package are approved by the Bank. These schedules show
the estimated time requirements for construction activities as well as for
preconstruction activities such as preparation of bid documents, prequalifica-
tion documents, advertliement, bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotia-
tions end signing of contracts.



NE~  HIGH     PJCT
UDUlmntatlof Schedule
1992           1993           1994           1995            1996            1997
1. Zhengzhou-Luoyan8   pressway
(a) 1CB contracts (Sections 7, 8 and 9)
(b) LCB contract (Section go. 10)                    _
(c) 8 and 1 supply and installation                                                    -
Cd) Service and administration facilities
2. Proincial and rural roads In NW Henan
3. Road Improwemnt Program                                                                                                         -
Suvervision of Construction
1. Zbengzhou-Luoyang lxpresavy                                                                            -
2. Roads in NW Hean and rIP                                       -                                                                   -
Procmnut of Kaulmt
1. Zbhenagou-Luoyan  Epressay
(a) Monitori" and testln  and avirosntal
prot ctiD a, 
(b) Operation and matenance "                                                                                      -
2. Provincial ad rural road.
(a) Monitoring and testing, Etl1IRDB3
Sb) Routine and periodic maintenance
Cc) Institutional strengthenibg
Trainina
1. Comprebhnsive training
2.  Istitutional strengthening
3. Supervislio training
Trucki  nE  td,-
Legends     -tPre|ualPficatlon4Preparation of Bidding Documents/TOR
t11ES   31 B   lSgPzoce9jCoap*tit1ou amoug Consultants¢c
ConstructlonISapervieton/Delivery
-         Training



-98 -                            ANNEX 6
Apendix 
HERANM HigWAY PROJECT
Imnpatign PyroArqM foi C5astructlon of Zhengzhou-Luovang Exoresgwar
I. Civil Works
A. Contract Section 10 (nJJ
Invite bido  rom 4 selected eontractorst               Dec. 1991
Roceive bids by:                                     Jan. 10, 1992
Blid evaluation:                                Jan. 10 - Feb. 14, 1992
Notify successful bidder:                            Feb. 15, 1992
Bank review of bLd documents &
bidding processs                             Feb. 26 - A?ril 15, 1992
Contractor 'tart workas                             April 22, 1992
Construction of contract Section 10:             May 1992 - Oct. 1995
3. Contract Sections 6. 7. 8 and 9 (ICD)
Prequalification document available for sale ons   Feb. 17, 1992
Last date to submit PQ documentst                   April 17, 1992
PQ documents evalsatton report & HOC review:  April 18 - May 17, 1992
Bank review and no objection to PQ documents
evaluation report:                                 June 15, 1992
Reviw bid documents by HOC:                    March 16 - April 1, 1992
Review bid documents by Bank:                   April 10 - May 31, 1992
Sell bidding documents to prequalified
contractors:                                       June 16, 1992
Last date to receive bid documents:                  Sept. 15, 1992
Blid evaluation report & government reviews    Sept. 15 - Oct. 10, 1992
Bank review bid evaluation report and
no objection:                                 Oct. 16 - Nov. 15, 1992
Notify successful bidders                            Nov. 16, 1992
Negotiate and sign contract with contractors  Nov. 16 - Dec. 15, 1992
Start construction on:                               Jan. 1, 1993
Complete construction by:                            June 30, 1996
C.  Administration and Maintenonce Buildngs gand Service
Areas (Local Shor,ing)
Completed bid documentat                     Dec. 31, 1992 - June 30, 1993
Invite bides                                    Jan. 15 - July 15, 1993
Receive bids:                                   March 1 - Sept. 1, 1993
Complete bids evaluations                       April 1 - Oct. 1, 1993
Negotiate and sign contracts:                    May 1 - Nov. 1, 1993
Start construction:                              June 1 - )c. 1, 19°3
Complete construction by:                            Dec. 31, 1995



-99 -                            A hI 6
ZI. IIleerical and M chnical Works (ICB)
Complets bid documents and review by HOC:            may S1, 1994
keviow bid documents by  eank and no objections    June 1-30, 1994
Invite bides                                         July 1, 1994
Last date to recolve bides                          Sept. 15, 1994
Prepare bld *valuetion report and
HOC reviews                                  Sept. 16 - Oct. 31, 1994
Review bid evaluation report by Bank end no
objection                                        Nov. 1 - 30, 1994
Negotiato and sign contracts                        Dec. 1-31, 1434
Start construction ons                               Jan. 1,
Completion construction bys                         March 31, 19wv



- 100 -                          ANfX 6
Imnl.mentatlon ProarSm of 8uorlsie.n for Construction of
Zhonaghou-LuoylMit Rxroressva
Review end no objection of Bank to terms of reference,
letter of invitation and short list of consultantst         March 20, 1992
Ievet lnvitations to conai.tantcs                            March 21, 1992
Last date to receive proposal.:                                May 31, 1992
Complete proposal evaluation report and HOC review:          June '-30, 1992
Bank review proposal evaluation report and
no objoction:                                              July 1-31, 1992
Negotiations with consultant and sign contracts              Aug. 1-31, 1992
Prepare training material b) 3onsultants                     Sept. 1-3G* 1992
Train local personnel in China:                           Oct. 1 - Nov. 30, 1992
Train local personnel abroad:                                Dec. 1-31, 1992
Start supervision of constructions                             Jan. 1, 1993
Complete supervision of construction:                         June 30, 1996



Atnmtiftta loul f -                   Jul    U-4 im               lb        r !a  I2           uy    Cy                   Juy1*l                          0  "
(94.9 be                   (19.5 be                    (3.6 b)                    (25.1 be                   (.i b)
so"pareIQ doe                                        May 19,                   Kw2 is, 19. 1992            11 19. 1992                J    1i., 1m              Eq  is. 192
bu   oie n _e objetio  to SQ doaent               Jul 2, £992                July 2. 1992                July 2, £992              July 2, 1i2                Jly 2, 1zm
Aieta     1    1lcl r.                        July 64, 1992               Ma !0, 1992                 July 12. 199              July 12. 1992               Eq 10. ~92
8.1  of SQ douent.                                  Jwly 5, 1992               Eq 13, 1992                 July 13. 192      I    S     l,1. 192                 Eq 13. 1992
Final dots to  ubeidt 1(, docmet                   doat 24, 12                hapat 24, 1ma         _        et 24, l192       _      nac  24, 192           _        24. 192 2.
kaluttAs rPt Of IQ deoMeIe                       Septmer 25. 9I92       a     rm 29 - Ju1l 21            "Ft. 1 - Sept. 22         Set. 1 - Sert. 22          Jums 20 - Juty 21
Seek revim'   so objection to SQ repor            October 21, 1M2            October 21, 1ma2            October 21, 1ma            Octoe 21, 12               Octobr 21. m2
tfy  rplii     c           _rtr                   October 25, 1"2            October 25, 1"2             Octor 25, 1992             Octber 2S. 1992            October 25, M29
Ce1nte bid dount.                                   July 6, £92                JULY 6. 1992                JULy Go £992               July So 99                 JUly 6, 192
au  revie  S  a objection to bidin  4.-.         "pter II, M2                Septer 11. 1"2             Septe_e  II, 199           9ept-er 11, 12             Septer 11, 1992
$U of bViA do_m_to                                0flabor 26. 1a             Oetober 26, 1m2             October 26, 9m             Octebr 2t, 192             October 26, 1m9              0
Let dat. to rtceive bl,e                          Pec2er 31, £92              eceobe 31, m2              Deceber 31, M9            December 31, 19"2          Deceer 13. £99
31A evalatinreprt                                 Ja    3£. 1993             Jimam" s1, 13msa  31, 1M                               Janary 31. 1"S             Jaay s1t 19"'
ba* renma. nd to objection to bid
evaluation repr                                 febru7 2I, 199             rebrua   23, 199            februar 2r , 1"93          eruar;  . 23,19w          tebroay 28. 1993
Accepteoc  letter to e_1ceeful bidders              Marc  1, 199               March 1. 1M                March 1, £93               Marc. 1, 199s              Marc  1, Im
eowtiat ud alga contracts                           Ma   I6, 199              March 16, £99                ma    is, 199             March 16, 199             march 16,. 199
cawtnetutios Stak
start co _tructio                                  AP.t 16, 193               AriU 1is, 19                April 16, 199              Apra 16s, £4               April 16, 19
C  1.te omtznctiom                                  3m  30s. £m               March 3S, m                  Jm  30, £6                S r  30, 1m99            Septer 30, 996



ca
MU'.
lmlemeatatio  Proe_m  for the Sbz RIral       . In Northeast Boom
Rins  County      "aus Cosmty    Jiluaua City         317mg city   J 1wU g City           N.lxbug City
ntrance.         ta#ighbm-          Vanu-            Unetuiang-          slesbal-         ¢oosag-
Sd_qao             Doyl0   Rd.      11*7 Rd.          ibetow. ld.       3a1'n W.         i      l M.
(18.2 km)         (19.0 hk)         (!8.6 km)         (23.2 Ie)         (14.4 he          (15.1 he
Prepaoe bid docomte                       Oct. 15, 1992      July 31, 1992    July 31, 1992      July 31, 1992   October LS, I2   Oct. IS, 1992
Lend acquieltios and rzeettlamet and
*earizommntl asesaammt                 Jan. -March 1992   Oct. -Dec.  "    Feb. -Aprl 1993   Sept.-ov. 1992   Jn.-ihprll I993   Jan.-April 193
3mb reovism ed ae objoction to bid
docMeat                                  poet reivie        poet revie      Aug. 31, 1992       poet reie w       post rlo          poot r ei
invitation Of bide                         Nov. 1, 1992      Aug. IS, 1992   Sept. 15, 992    Aug. 1S, 192    Sept. iS, im     Sept. iS, 1992
teat date to receive bis                  Dec. 15, 1992    Sept. 30, 1992    ov. 30. 1993    Sept. 30, 1992    Nov. 30, 1992    Now. 30, 1093
Bid  valuation report                     Jan. 31, 1993      Oct. 31, 1992    Jan. 15, 19"3    Oct. 31, 1992       Jan. 1S, 193      Jan. is, 19w3
Acceptance letter to euce.efu  biddets  Feb. 15, 1993        No. 15, 1992    leb. 15, 1993       NM. iS, 1992    Y?eb. AS, 1993       1eb. 15. 1993
Negotiate *1 sign cotmate          l       arcd 30, 1993    Dec. 15, 192   March 31, 19"3    Dc. U, 1992    Mach 31, 193    PAT   1  1993
Start construction                        April IS, 1993     Jan. 1, 1993    Apra  1, 1993       Jan. 1, 1993     ApriS, m 13    April 15, 1993
Complete conetrctio                        Jun  30, I995     Oct. 31, 1995    Ju   30, 1995      Oct. 31, 1995     Jan. 31, I9 ff     m  30, I"S
UA



- 103 -                                      AM         7
CHI
HERMI IGEHWAY PROJECT
Sunervision Mission Plan
TIming            Main activities                               Skills requirement    Staff-weeks
3193      Prolect Launch                                        Highway Engineerlng         3
The review of all key procedures for Bank-           Proc trement
Esecutig Agency Interactions, such a  project        Disbursement
selection (RIP), procurement, disbursement,          Ensviroment
environment and resettlement, lmplementation         Trucking
schedule and progress reporting requirements.
Review progress on Trucking Study.
10/93     General SuDervisiol                                  Hligway Engineering          2
S1) review of ovekall. progress for each com-        Procurement
pon,at and identify pending Issues  nd           Resettlement
agree on follow up actions
CLi) reach agreement on resettlement monitoring
arrangemetst  and
liII) review proposals for equipment for maintenance
of highway network and lntltutional
strengthening.
3/94      Naior Suyervllon                                     Highway  ngineeraing        3
In-depth review of implementation statue with        Procurement
particular emphasis ons                              Envirosment
C1) contractors' performance;                        RIP, PUS
(C1) effectiveness of supervision;                    Transport Economics
C1ii) adequacy of enviromental protection ma-          Trucklig
sures;
(Cv) review proposal for equipment procurement
for the operation and maintennce of the
hishway network;
(v) review bidding documents for LSA supply and
Installation contract for the Expressway;
(vi) preparation of RIP subprojects and RIP, PUS,
and staff training programs and
(vii) review progress on trucking study.
10194    General Sunervlslon                                Highway Engineering           1.5
(i) review overall progress for each component    Procurement
and Identify penditng issues nd agree on
follow up actions;
C(i) reviow proposal for procurement of equipment
for operatlon an maintenance of
Expressway; and
(iii) review progreoo on trucking study.
3/95      Malor Sunerviion                                   Highway Enginering           2
In-depth review of Implementation status with     Envirowoent
particular emphsis ona                             Resettlemnt
(i) contractors' performace;                      Truckiag
C(i) effectiveness of supervision
(III) adequacy of enviroimental protection ma-
ures;
C(Lv) RIP, PUS, and staff :raining progrm; and
(v) review progress on implementation of
recommendatlons of truckikg study.



- 104 -                                       ANNEX
TIn8In            Main activities                                Skills requirement    Staff-weeks
10/95     General $uvervision                                    Highway Engineering           2
Reviewing overall progress for each component
and identifying pending l uee and agreeing on
folov up actions.
3/96      Malor Suvervision                                      Highway Engineering           2 5
In-depth review of lmplementation status with          Environment
particular mphasis ons                                 RIP, PHS
(1) contractore' performancel                          Trucking
1i1) effectiveness of supervision;
Ci1) adequacy of envirommental protection mea-
sures;
(iv) RIP, PUS, and *taff training progranm;
and
Iv) review progress on impleawntation of recommen-
dations of trucking study.
10/96     General Sunervision                                    Highway Engineering           1.5
Reviewing overall progress for each component
and ldentifylng pending Issues and agreeing on
follow up actions.
4/97      General Suoervision                                    Highway Engineering           1.5
Reviewing overall progress for each component
and ldentifying pending lsues  nd agreelig on
follow-up actions.
10/97     PCR  ission                                            Highway Engineering          4
A consolidated review of project lmplement--           Transport Economice
tion.                                                  Enviroment
Resettlement
RIP, PHS, Training
Trucking
Total                                                                          22



- 105 -                              ANNEX 8
CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Toll Rate Study for Zhengzhou-Luovang Exiresswav
Outline Terms of Reference
Obiective of Study
1.        The objective of the study is to analyze and recommend a toll rate
*tructure for the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway. The study is expected to give
proper consideration to cost recovery goals, economic efficiency and equity in
the toll structure among different classes of vehicles.
Princiiles and Data for Establishina Toll Rates
2.        Pricing the use of roads needs to balance cost recovery objectives,
economic efficiency and equity among users. Achieving a proper balance among
these objectives will be influenced by the level and composition of traffic,
its effect on the cost of operating and maintaining the road, the vehicle
operating costs on the expressway, the existence of alternative routes and the
vehicle operating costa on such routes, and the administrative costs of oper-
ating the toll system.
3.        While the roads' maintenance and operating costs, including the
administrative costs of operating the tolling system, will define the costs
that the road authorities will aim to recover, as a minimum, the analysis
should explore the extent to which loan repayment (principal plus interest)
may also be recovered from toll revenues. This analysis should take into
account the existence of route alternatives, and that the difference in vehi-
cle operating costs, including the price charged at the tolling stations,
between the new and the existing road, will influence vehicle drivers' deci-
sion to use the new tolled road or to remain on the old road. The traffic
which tolls discourage from using the new road, will remain at the lower qual-
ity existing roads, and will have higher vehicle operating costs. Such higher
coats represent an economic loss for the society. Toll levels should be *st
to minimize such losses to the regional and national economy. As a starting
point, a good empirical rule is to charge tolls no higher than one third the
estimated savings in vehicle operating costs between the new and the old road.
4.        In order to be able to set a toll rate structure compatible with the
above principles, the following essential data will be required:
(a)  traffic composition on the existing road, both existing and pro-
jected, under "no toll" situation, and with breakdown by origin and
destinations
(b)  Identification of alternative routes for the various origin-destina-
tion pairs;



- 106 -                              ANNEX 8
(c)  vehicle operating costs on the expressway and on the alternative
routes, including the costs on access roads to and from the express-
(d) in light of (a) through (c), estimates of traffic demand elasticity
to toll prices; and
(e) vehicle types, and their relative costs imposed on road maintenance.
Toll Revenue and Tr-ffic Diversion Pro1ections
5.        On the basis of the proposed toll rate structure, and the present
and projected traffic and tolling cost data, the study will make estimateo of:
(a) Total toll revenues to be collected yearly, over a period of 20
years;
(b) Net toll revenues, on a yearly basis, once toll collection costs are
taken into account;
(c) Estimates of the traffic that would not use the expressway as a
result of the toll charges.
Consideration of Chinese Exnerience with Toll Roads
6.        The study will take particularly into account the experience to date
with toll roads in China, especially those under conditions similar to the
Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway. This experience will be especially useful for
determining the data on vehicle operating costs, traffic demand elasticities
and road maintenance costs. The review of Chinese experience should look
particularly at the levels of toll rates charged, their relation to vehicle
operating costs savings between the new and the existing routea, and the
extent of traffic diversion.
Timing of Stud,
7.        The study is expected to be completed and submitted to the World
Bank by October 31, 1995.



107 -                             ANN 9
CHI
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Pro1ect File
1.  Feasibiity Study Report on Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway.
2. Environmental Impact Assessment Concerning the Construction of Kaifeng-
Luoyang Eprossway of National Highway 310; Scientific Research Institute
of Euvironmental Protection of Henan Provinco; June 1989.
3. Environmental Impact Report of Sasmnxia to Davang Reroute Engineering;
Environmental Protection Scientific Research Institute of Sanmenxia City
of Henan Province; December 1991.
4. Report on the Implmentation Plan of Land Acquisition and Relocation of
the Expresevsy between Zhengzhou end Luoyang; High-Grade Highway
Construction Authority of Henan Province; December 23, 1991.
3. Ronan Provincial Implementation Regulations of the "The Land
Administration Law"; PRC, Henan Provincial Land Administration
Department; October 1987.
6. PRC Regulations on Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Compensations for
Stats Construction Projects; A collection of Selected Documents, Prepared
by the World Bank Resident Mission in China, Beijing; April 1992.
7. Implemnatation Plan of Land Acquisition and Relocation of the Provincial
Key Highways and Rural Highways; Highway Management Bureau of the
Department of Communications of Henan Province; Decomber 1991.
S. The Investigation Report on the Improvement of the Highway Network in
Northwest Nenan, Main Volume and Appendices 1 to 5; The Planning Section
and Highway Bureau of Coamunication  Department of Henan Province and the
High-Grade Highway Construction Authority.
9. The People's Republic of Chin*a Northwest menan Provincial Road Network
Rehabilitation Program; Investigation Report on the Following Rural Road
Projects; March 1991.
10. Report on Equipment Purchase for the Henan Highway Project; January 1992.
11. Pavement Management System  L4isted, Equipment Needs for Highway
Construction end Maintenance Henan, Guangdong and Zhejiang Provinces;
December 30, 1991.



CHINA
HENIN HIGHWAY PROJECt
Freight Traffic Intensities In Selected Counties
...............................................
CoLntry a      Tons originated / a       Ton-kmla           Averae       Estimted WP        Tons/S1 000      Ton-IMSP
Cosmtry     (millions of sq km)          (mltlions         (billions)    distance (km)  (biLtions of S)            of GNP
Chins (1967)                   9.6                8,660             1.526               176              320             27.1             4.77
USSIR (197                    22.4               33.381             8,339              250             2,375             14.1             3.51
USA (19)                       9.4                5,261             3.702              704             4,486              1.1             0.83
India (197/8)                 3.3                  551               335               608               241              2.3             1.40
Brazil (1987)                  8.5                  847           355 /_b              419               315              2.7             1.13
a a Includes rail, hghWy, Internl waterway  pipeline, and air freight only.
I) 1966 de, 
Sources: ChInr: "Statistical Yearbook of China". 198. p. 448. GIP from  The World Sank At:as 198", p. 6.
USSR: Uarodnoe Khozaistvo SSSR v. 1967  . ("The USSR National Economy in 1987"), pp. 306-307. CUP from NHandook of Economic
Statistics 19fV, p. 31. Truck traffic estimtes from Vladimir Kontorovich  nd Noltand HLmter, "Trsport Performnce 
in 1987", p. 6.
USA: "Tranportation in America", 1989, p. 8. GP from  The World BankAtlas 1968", p. 9.
India: World Dank estimtes bused on Goverment of India. mEconaic Survey, 1988/89 nd "Perspective Plaming for
Trasport Oevetopment   1988. UNP estimte from "The World Sank Atlas 1968" p. 7.
!^  Y  world Bank Appraisl Report, Highays _agemnt and Rehabititicon Report", 1989. GP from "The World  8n Atlas
1968   p. 6.
'"I
07



cmii
mRm RI;;;;; ICT
Road and Railway Network Density ni SIect*d Counties
al ____________________      _________________________________
Population      Axea           Length                                      Length
Country      Ter    (millions)  ('000 *q km)      ('000 km) (Is'000 pop) (bo/'000 *q 8.)    ('000 km)    (kin'000 pop)  (k /.000 sq im)
China        1987         1,081         9,600            53          0.05            5.5           982               0.9              102.3
USSR         1987           282        22,403           145          0.52            6.5         1,610               5.7              71.9
USA          1987           244         9,400           213          0.87           22.6         6,242              25.6             664.0
India        1987           797         3,287            62          0.08           18.9         1,800               2.3             547.6
Brazil       1987           145         8,500            30          0.21            3.5         1,500              10.3             176.5      o
Sourcest   Chbna *Statistical Yearbook of ChIna, 1988, p. 3, 428-429
USSR: USSR State Statistical Commission: 'Earodnoe Ihozya atwo SSSR v. 1987 e ("The USSR Na.-ional Economy In 19870),
pp.312, 327, and 671
USA: Eno Foundation for Transportation, Inc. (Westport, Conn.)s Transportation In hmerica, 7th Edition, in May 1989,p.4;
US Departmet of Tranportation, Federal Highway Administration: *Highway Statistics 1986, p. 115
1ndia: States' Road Project, No. P-4812-IN, October 3, 1968, p. 1; Govermant of India, Ministry of Fiennc
*Economic Survey, 1988,89', p. *-1.
Braxil  World tank   praisal Report, 'Hlghways Management and Rebabilitalon Report", 1989; CUP frm "The World Bank Atlas
1968', p. 6.
-.



cum
83Rm grHIA PROJsCT
Chiaa: Fr1ight Traffic
(in bllona of ton-km)
Domestic
Year           Rail            Road  waterways /_a       Pipelines Civil Aviation          Total Ocean Shipping
1952           60.2             1.6           11.8             --           0.002           73.4             2.0
Nowdl split (C)           82.0            2.0            16.0             --              --          100.0              --
1977          456.9            25.1          102.1           38.7           0.076          622.9           174.1
Modal split (Z)           73.4            4.0            16.6            6.2              --          100.0              --
197i          559.9            76.5          139.3           47.6           0.123          821.4           317.1
1980          571.7            76.4          152.1           49.1           0.141          869.4           353.2
1981          571.2            78.0          150.7           49.9           0.170          850.0           366.3
1982          612.0            94.9          170.8           50.1           0.198          928.0           376.9
1983          664.7           108.6          181.1           53.6           0.229         1007.8           397.7
1984          724.6           153.6          196.1           57.2           0.311         1132.0           437.4                    1
1985          812.6           169.3          237.1           60.3           0.415         1279.7           532.9
19 6          676.5           211.8          270.0           61.2           0.481         1420.0           594.8
1987          947.1           266.0          266.9           62.5           0.650         1565.2           657.6                   0
196           986.6           322.0          310.6           65.0           0.;30         1685.9           696.6
1989        1,039.4           337.5          349.8           62.9           0.690         1790.3           768.6
1990        1.062.2           335.8          345.1           62.7           0.620         1806.6           814.1
Nodal split (Z)           50.6            10.6           19.1            3.5              --          100.0             --
Gowth rsat  (2) p. a.
1952-77            6.4           12.1             9.0             --            15.7            6.9           16.0
1983/84            9.0           61.7             8.3            7.1           35.8            12.3           10.0
1984/85           12.1           10.2            20.9            5.6           33.4            13.0           21.8
1985/U             7.9           25.1            13.9            1.5           15.9            11.0           11.6
1986/87            6.1           25.6             7.0            2.1           35.1            10.2           10.6
1967/6             6.3           21.1             7.6            4.0           12.3             7.7            5.9
196/69             5.2            6.6            12.7           (3.2)           (5.5)           6.2           10.3
199/"9             2.2           (0.5)           (1.3)          (0.3)         1.6              0.9            5.9
1960-90            6.4           16.0             8.5            2.5           19.3             7.6            8.7
/_I  holud es ocem-going t*usapert
8Bout": Statistical Yearbok of t1s. 191. p. 499



-111 -
Table 1.4
CBINA
HEWNA HIOrWAT PROJECT
China: Passenger TraffSc
(ln billions of passenger-kam)
Civil
Year            Rail             Road   Waterways /_          Aviation            Total
1952            20.1              2.3              2.5              0.0            24.9
Modal split (2)             80.9              9.1              9.9             0.1            100.0
1977           102.3             44.8              9.7              1.8           158.6
Modal split (Z)             64.5             28.2              6.1              1.2           100.0
1979           121.6             60.3             11.4              3.4           196.7
1980           138.3             73.0             12.9              3.9           228.1
1981           147.3             83.9             13.8              5.0           250.0
1982           157.5             96 4             14.5              5.9           274.3
1983           177.7            1.0.6             15.4              5.8           309.5
1984           204.6            133.7             15.4              8.3           362.0
1985           241.6            172.5             17.9             11.6           443.6
1986           258.7            198.2             18.2             14.6           489.7
1987           284.3            219.0             19.6             68.7           541.6
1988           326.0            252.8             20.4             21.4           620.6
1989           303.7            266.2             18.8             18.6           607.3
1990           261.3            262.0             16.5             23.0           562.8
Modal split (S)             46.4             46.6              2.9              4.1           100.0
Crovth rate (S) p. a.
1952-77              6.7            12.7              5.7             18.9              7.7
1983184             15.1            20.9              0.0             43.1             17.0
1984/85             18.1            29.0             16.2             39.8             22.5
1985/86              7.1            14.9              1.7             25.9             10.4
1986/87             9.9             10.5              7.7             28.1             10.6
1987/88             14.7            15.4              4.1             14.4             14.6
1988/89             (6.8)            5.3             (7.8)           (13.1)            (2.1)
1989/90            (14.0)           (1.6)           (12.2)            23.7             C7.3)
1980-90             6.6             13.6              2.5             19.4              9.5
I_ Racludes ocean-gofng transport
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 497



CHM
BIsM BIGBW PROJECT
China: Iwveatmnt in the Transport Sector (Including Posts and Teleccainicatioms)
(in billions of Yuan)
6th FYP                                7th FYP
lat FmP   at Fm           3rd YP 4thVTP  Sth mF-P                                            -------------------------------------
1953-57  1957-63  1963-65  1965-70  1971-75  1976-80    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Trasport:
Railway   5.916   10.416    3.395   11.250  17.308    4.047   1.445  2.637   4.221   5.852     7.7    8.5    8.7   10.2    5.4    9.3
iAbway       --      --       --       --       --       --   0.799   0.887   0.722   1.196    2.3    2.7    3.3    4.2    4.3    6.8
watrw        --       --       --       --       --       --   1.295   1.545   1.937  2.629     3.7    3.7    3.9    3.2    3.6    5.3
Aviation     --       --       --       --       --       --  0.070   0.145   0.299   0.263     2.1    1.3    1.4    1.3    1.0    1.4
Pipli.       --       --       --       --       --      --   0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010     0.1    0.5    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3
Subtotal     --       --       -         -       --      --  3.627   5.231   7.185  9.950   15.9   16.7   17.4   19.0   14.4   23.1
Post and telcm.      --       --       --       --       --       --  0.420   0.490   0.619   0.896     1.2    1.3    1.6    1.8    2.3    2.7
Total  9.015   16.330    5.387   16.001   31.759  30.245  4.047   5.721  7.804  10.846    17.1   18.0   19.0   20.8   16.7   25.8
Total capital
inveatmmnt  58.847  120.609   42.189   97.603  176.395  234.217  44.291  55.553  59.413  74.315   107.4  117.6  134.3  152.6  155.2  170.4
Traport as  ofI
total invests. /_a   15.3Z    13.S2    12.8U    16.41    18.0Z   12.91   8.22   9.42  12.1Z  13.42  i4.82  14.21   13.0%  132.SZ   9.32   13.62
/_& Investamt of FM, before 1980, incldes Post and TllcoinAoatlans (about 42 of total).
Bource: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 157, 160
U.
I-J



-113  -                        Table 1.6
CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
China:  Transport Investment v. Economic Output
(in billions of Yuan)
GNP       Transport
Transport              (current      investment
Year             investment               prices)     as 2 of GNP
1966-70  3FYP             15.0 /a              935.0              1.6
1971-75  4FYP             31.8 /Ia            1323.0              2.4
1976-80  5FYP             30.2 /I             1758.0              1.7
1981-85  6FYP             41.9                3130.0              1.3
1986-90  7FYP             85.5                6861.7              1.2
1980                    5.9                 447.0              1.3
1981                    3.6                 477.3             0.8
1982                    5.2                519.3               1.0
1983                    7.2                 580.9              1.2
1984                   10.0                 696.2              1.4
1985                   15.9                 855.8              1.9
1986                   16.7                 969.6              1.7
1987                   17.4                1130.1              I.
1988                   19.0                1401.8              1.4
1989                   14.4                1591.6              0.9
1990                   18.0                1768.6              1.0
1980-90 average                                                           1.3
/la Investment of PYPe includes Post and Telecommunications
(about 4 percent of total)
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 31, 156, and 160



car
CaM: 8labe Design Standards
-- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
PAter vehicle only bignshy                                General parpose hglsbwas
Zkprsmmy                  C1las 1        CaJs 2               Clas 2        Cl as 3        Class 4
Flet RoUing    Mountalaous        Flt   Other    Flat   Other        Flat  Other   Flat  Otbhr   Flat  Other
c.,ilapadity (Vebdmi)
Peasm car eq.     ............ 25,000 + .....       .. 10,000-25,.000.
medle truok eq.                                                        .. .4.500-7.000 ...   ..2.000-5,000.. ...200-2.000 ........M . ...2 .
Desgn *ped tk jb)          120      100      80      60      100      60       s0      40         80     40     60      30      40     20
Carriges ay width (a)    2:7.5   2x7.5  2Z7.5   207.5   2x7.5   20.0          e.0     7.5        9.0    7.0    7.0    6.0    3.5    3.5
Subgrade width (a)
General            26.0    24.5    23.0    21.5    24.5    21.5    11.0         9.0      12.0    8.5    8.5    7.5    6.5    6.5
Variation            24.5    23.0    21.5    20.0    23.0    20.0    12.0          --        --     --      --     --    7.0    4.5
la. curve radius (a)       650      400     250      125     400      135     250      60        250     60    125      30      60     15
Mlu. sight distnce (s)     210      160     110       75     160      75      110      40        110     40     75      30      40     20
Mha. Fed C2)                 3       4        5       5        4       6        5       7          5      7      6       8       6      9
Shoulder widtb (a)
BErd - sten4erd       '2.50   '2.50   '2.25   >2.00   >2.50   >2.00
minim                   2.25    1.75    1.50    2.25    1.50
soft                  '0.75   '0.75   >0.50   >0.50   '0.75   >0.50    1.50    0.75          1.50   0.75   0.75   0.75 0.5-1.5 0.5-1.5
Median width (a)
Standard         3.00    2.00    1.50    1.50    2.00    1.50
HinMINI         2.00    1.50                      1.50
Source: MC: Bisbwey Igineerlg Technical Standard. 1983
I03
'-
tD
-J



- 115 -                               Table 1.8
coi
C....
OEM  HIGHWAY PROJECT
Chinat Clvlian Motor Vehi¢le.
.. .._. ........._....._..
(in tbousand.)
P^eseuer vehicles                  Total
....... .._-  motor                           motor
Large    Small    Total   Trucks vehicles    Trailers Tractors   eycleo    Other
1978       88       171      259    1,099    1,358           104                126
1980      130       275      406    1,585    1,991           168                245
1985                         795    2,416    3,211           338    1,784       946
1986                         966    2,654    3,620           344    2,288    1,483
1987      274       841    1,115    2,966    4,081           426    3,747    2,478        305
1988      299    1,004    1,304    3,340    4,644            447    3,916    3,024        318
1989      312    1,152    1,464    3,649    5,113            475    4,104    3,593        375
1990      333    1,289    1,622    3,892    5,514            499    4,626    4,213        411
Annual growth rat s
78.85187        132      192       172      122       132          182                332
85-87                           18      112       132          12X      452       622
87-90        72       152       13S       9S       11          5x        72       192      I1t
Proportion of !zdividuolly oncedt
1985                           22       11t
1990                            12      152
Sources Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 512



- 116 -                      Table 1.9
CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
China- Highway Freight Transport
--_------------------------------
Freight tons            Freight ton-M       Average haul CMT)
Public/ a Other/ b  Total Public  Other  Total Public  Other  Total
illion.T                 (billions)
1979        816    2,894  3,710       27     48      75     33      16     20
1980        760    3,060  3,820       26     51      76     34      17     20
1981        715    2,922  3,637       25     53      78     35      18     21
1982        788    3,004  3,792       30     65      95     38     22      25
1983        791    3,223  4,014       34     75    108      42     23      27
1984        789    4,545  5,334    .35    118    154        45     26      29
1985        762    4,619  5,381       35    134    169      46     29      31
1986        785    5,416  6,201       37    175    212      47      32     34
1987        791    6,323  7,114       39    227    266      49      36     37
1988        765    6,558  7,323       42    280    322      55     43      44
1989        697    6,640  7,337       41    297    338      58      45     46
1990        647    6,593  7,240       36    300    336      56      45     46
Average annual growth:
79-84         -12        92     82      62    202    162
84-90         -32        62      52    O0    172    142
Split   1979          222       782   1002    362    642   1002
1990          92       91S   1002    112    89S   1002
_*a  Public - Trucks operated by trucking companies affiliated to, or owned
by, the Provincial Transportation Departments
/b Other - Trucks operated by other enterprises or by private Individuals
Sources Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 498



- 11.7 -               Table 2.1
CHINA
HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
________________________________
Economic Data, 1990
PER    GOVAI
Population GOVAI / 1  CAPITA  times
(million) (Y billion)   (Y)  Nat'l avg.
CHINA TOTAL             1,143.3    3,158.7   2,763       1.0
Henan Province:            86.5      153.9    1,779      0.6
______________
North-west Region        21.5       64.7   3,009       1.1
Zhengzhou               5.5       19.9   3,618       1.3
Luoyang                 5.7       14.9   2,614       0.9
Xinxiang                4.8       12.5   2,604       0.9
-iaozuo                 3.5       12.8   3,657       1.3
Sanmenxia               2.0        4.6   2,300       0.8
Other Provinces:
=______________
Sichuan Province        108.0      186.0   1,722       0.6
Jiangxi Province         38.1       68.1   1,787       0.6
Shaanxi Province         33.2       61.3   1,847       0.7
Xinjiang Aut.Reg.        15.3       36.5   2,385       0.9
Shandong Province        84.9      284.9   3,355       1.2
Guangdong Province       62.5      250.3    4,007      1.5
Jiangsu Province         67.7      334.5   4,943       1.8
Zhejiang Province        42.3      176.9   4,182       1.5
/_1: Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
Sources: China Statistical Yearbook, 1991; pp 58, pp 81.
Henan Provincial Communication Department, China



- .118 -               Table 2.2
CHINA
HENAN PROVINCIAL HXGHWAY PROJECT
Henan: Traffic, 1980-1990
_______ _____________O___
Freight                 Passenger
_________________________ --------------------------
Highway Railway Waterway Highway Railway Waterway
----(million ton-kmn)----- --(million passenger-km)--
1980       2,101   52,531    133   4,135   12,240         23
1985      10,572   72,825    425  11,336   20,977         37
1986       9,973   77,712    505  12,934   22,854         32
1987      13,383   88,094    604  15,075   24,901         30
1988      13,964   93,237    725  19,424   29,016         37
1989      15,407   96,713    794  20,167   26,765         43
1990      16,066  100,179    699  19,310  22,990          46
% p.a. growth:
1980-85      38.1      6.8   26.2    22.3       11.4    10.0
1986-90      12.7      6.6    8.5    10.5        0.1      9.5
1980-90      22.6      6.7   18.0    16.7        6.5      7.2
Source: Statistical Yearbook Henan- 1989, pp.332.
Statistical Yearbook Henan- 199i, pp.392.
Henan Communication Department, China.



CNINA
NENAN PROVINCIAL NIGISMY PROJECT
... ........................;..... ..--------
Henan: Demogrephic and Trnsport Network Data, 1990
................ ....................  .   .. . . . . . . .
Transport Network Length      Network Density         Total    No. of    No. of
Popula-  rea  -------------N o. of veh. per veh. per
tion    ('000      Road    Rail   water    Road    Rail   Water   vehicles  '000             km
(million)  sq k) -------('000 km)--------   ----(km/'000 sq km)----    ('000)  population  road
CHINA TOTAL               1,143.3 9,600.0  102B.3    53.4   109.2   107.1         5.6    11.4   5,S14          4.8     5.4
Nenan Province               86.5   167.0    43.2    2.09    1.11   258.7    12.5         6.6      308 /1     3.6      7.1                 1
Other Provinces:
... ............
SIdhuan Province          108.0   560.0    97.2    2.88    7.90   173.6         5.1    14.1      310         2.9     3.2                 1
JIwngxi Province           38.1   160.0    33.2    1.58    4.90   207.5         9.9    30.6      110         2.9     3.3
SheuixI Province           33.2   190.0    38.0    1.8S    0.77   200.0         9.7     4.1      140         4.2     3.7
Xlnjing Aut. Reg.          15.3 1,200.0    25.4    1.34    0.00    21.2         1.1     0.0      130        8.5      5.1
ShUwudub  Province         84.9   150.0    40.8    2.04    1.84   272.0    13.6    12.3          373        4.4      9.1
Cunmdong Province          62.5   177.9    54.7    0.68   10.86   307.5         3.8    61.0      402        6.4      7.3
Jiwnu Province             67.7   100.0    24.8    0.7S   23.67   248.0         7.5   236.7      277        4.1    11.2
aejiuia  PrwInce           42.3   101.5    30.2    0.63    10.62   296.7        8.2   104.3      156        3.7      5.2
/1: The fifure is slightly lower then the figure on Table 2.5 die to exclusion of s mspecial purpose cars
(e.g. polifc car, fire engines ard mulance etc.).
Source: China Statistical Torboc&, 1991; pp. 58, 81, 513.



_ 120                   Table 2.4
CHINA
HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Henan: Road Network, 1990
 ----- n l   --  ---
---------------- Classification------------------
-------------Class-------------   Sub-
I       II     III       IV   standard   Total
By Administration:
Nationhl        78    1,274    1,665       299       84    3,400
Provincial            1,546    4,410    1,602      317    7,875
Prefecture               83    3,068    6,229    1,373   10,753
County                   29    1,553   15,923    2,616   20,121
Others                   63       284      654       1. ,001
Total          78    2,995   10,980   24,707    4,390   43,150
Sand and
Bituminous  Cement   stone    Earth    Total
-- - -- -  - ---    -  - - -
By Pavement            20,585       406   13,245    8,914   43,150
Source: Henan Provincial Communication Department, China



CHINA
HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Henan: Vehicle Fleet, 1980-90
(in thousand of vehicles)
-------------------Motorized Vehicle-----------------------
--Passenger--  ---Freight--- Special Special  Other   Sub-   Truck              Motor-
Small  Large  Small  Large  purpose freight freight  total trailer Tractor cycle
/-I           /_1         car /_2 car /_3   car        /_4
1980      10.9    4.3    0.3    64.5       4.8      ..      ..     84.8   52.3    42.0       7.3
1981      13.3    4.9    0.8    76.9       5.3      ..      ..    101.2   60.1    48.0       9.7
1982      14.4    5.7    1.5    85.3       5.9      ..      ..    112.8   66.9    49.8    12.6
1983      15.5    6.5    2.7    91.1       6.4      ..      ..    122.2   69.9   157.0    25.9
1984      18.3    7.5   11.1    96.4       7.6      ..      ..    140.9   42.8   156.6    41.8
1985      29.5    9.3   11.2   107.6       9.3      ..      ..    166.9   41.7   186.5    48.9
1986      33.0   11.1   11.2   119.6       9.4      ..      ..    184.3   98.2   160.1    59.5
1987      43.0   13.4   19.2   129.8    10.6        ..            216.0   76.1   149.6   125.6
1988      51.2   14.5   26.8   146.0    14.5        ..      6.1   259.1   82.8   130.0   148.0
1989      58.2   15.9   35.3   162.8    15.5        ..      7.2  *294.9   61.7   162.8   171.4
1990      66.4   15.8   42.3   168.6    17.0       4.7      3.0   317.8   70.7   289.0   207.8
* p.a. growth:
1980- 85  22.0   16.6  103.3    10.8    14.2        ..      ..     14.5   (4.4)   34.7    46.2
1986- 90  15.0    7.5   30.4       7.1    12.7      ..      ..     11.5   (6.4)   12.5    28.4
1980- 90  19.8   14.0   62.9    10.1    13.6        ..      ..     14.1    3.0    21.3    39.7
Notes: /_1: a. 20 passengers or less; b. GT is 4.5 ton or less; and
c. length of car is 6 meter or less.
/2: Including police cars, fire engines, emergency road maintenance vehicles,
ambulance, management and special task vehicles.
/3: Including container truck, refrigerator truck.
/4: The figure is slightly higher than the figure on Table 2.2 due to inclusion of
some special purpose cars (e.g. police cars, fire engine, ambulance etc.).
Source: Henen Provincial Communication Department, China.



-122 -                    Table 2.6
CHINA
HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Henan: Provincial Automotive Vehicle Production, 1985-1990
Motor vehicles                   Tractor
------------------------- --------------------------  Motor-
Year Passenger  Freight  Total  Large/med. Small   Total   cycle
1985    2,004    1,687   3,691    4,481   94,160   98,641   8,359
1986      357       637     994    4,685   68,653   73,338  71,929
1987      540       586   1,126    6,237  106,181  112,418  76,422
1988    2,963       771   3,734    7,280  120,622  127,902  98,400
1989    2,603       621   3,224    5,487  125,726  131,213  71,598
1990    3,105       236   3,341   10,348  165,763  176,111  72,399
Source: Henan Provincial Communication Department, China.



HEMM PNOVIUCIAL HIGHNMY PROJECT
. ,,,,,,,,,_,......................
He_ : Freight Transported by Road, 190- 1990
.............................................
Freight Voltu  (mitllion ton)     Freight Density (million tkb)       Average Distance (kim)
Social   Ptic    Private           Social  Publc  Privete         Social  Public  Private
truck /1 truck /.2 truck /3  Total  truck  truck  truck   Total  truck  truck  truck  total
1960         101.63    46.11       ..   14T.94   2,101   1,210    ..   3,311    20.6   26.2    ..    22.4
1961         97.05     41.38            138.43   2.445   1.296           3,741    25.2   31.3             27.0
192          127.94    44.43       ..   172.37  3, 741   1.616    ..   5.357   29.2   36.4    ..    31.1
1983         143.08    40.22      ..   183.30  4,786   1,922    ..   6.7Q8   33.4   47.8    ..    36.6
1964         162.96    37.98            200.94  5.588   1,955            7,43   34.3   51.5              37.5
1985        157.43     37.39      ..       194.82   5,599   1,909    ..   7,5Q8   35.6   51.1    ..    38.5
1966        168.29     37.74    4.15  252.18   5.928   2.029  2,459  10,416   35.2   53.8   53.3   41.3
1987        306.70     37.85    127.05 471.60  13.383  2,220  4,702 20,305   43.6   58.7   37.0   43.1
1989        292.82     39.07    106.05 437.94  13,964  2,543  4,390 20,897   47.7   65.1   41.4   47.7
1969        268.11     37.08    92.85 418.04  15.407  2,396  3.910 21,713   53.5   64.6   42.1    51.9
1990        28M.18    37.19    88.52 413.89  16.066  2,009  3,977  22,052   55.7   54.0   44.9   53.3
Z p.a. grwth:
1960- 85        9.1      (4.1)    ..        5.7   21.7    9.5              17.8   11.5   14.2             11.5
1985- 90       12.9      (0.1)    ..       16.3   23.5    1.0    ..    24.0    9.4    1.1    ..            6.7
1980- 90       11.0      (2.1)    ..       10.8   22.6    5.2    ..    20.9   10.5    7.5    ..            9.1
I 1 own accounat trucking, including governient and cotlective enterprises.
_2 Public carrier, including all government transport sectors.
/_3 Public carrier, private oemership.
Source: Henan Provincial Cooemication Department, China.



CHINA
HEIII PROINCIAL HIGNAY PROWECT
H : Ushmay Ffnae (1985-1995)
(oIllion Yuan)
7th Five-Year-Plan (actual)                   8th Five-Tear-Plan (estimtelprolectfam)
...................................................    ..................................................................................................................
------Total-----                                       ---T--Iotal. --
1985  1986  1967  1988  1969  1990 Current Contant   1991  1992    1993    1994    1995 Current Constnt
A. Total Revem:
.............
i. Road mintenace fee               342.88 441.11 450.00 537.50 577.81 680.00 2,686.42 1.806.78 730.00 784.75  843.60  906.90  974.90 4.240.15 2,118.81
2. Cpital cornstruction-
Central 6owenust (HOC)          50.00 52.00 53.98 80.00 80.00 86.00  351.98  235.43  86.00 93.00   99.50  106.80  114.70  500.00  249.88
3. Capital constructior
Provineial Goven6 nt 11          4.50  8.53  2.01i  .ji, 30.16 31.88   80.55   51.02  3.10C  37.65   40.45   43.50   46.80  203.40  101.63 
4. Road bond                         0.00 42.34  0.0    G 0    0.00  0.00   42.34   33.84   0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 
5. Bnk loan /_                       0.00 32.00 20.0l 2-.1  0.00  0.00   72.00   54.03  32.76 65.52   98.29  196.57  262.10  655.24  314.97
Total                       397.38 575.98 526.59 644.87 687.97 797.88 3.233.29 2.181.10 883.76 980.92 1.081.84 1.253.77 1.398.50 5.598.9 2,785.36
3    8     33=    ==             38== 33          3       =8==3                    =       8= =    = 332=2=
B. Total Expnditur.:
.................
1. Trarsfer to Central Government   42.00 49.59 54.00 56.02 58.20 90.54  308.35  206.99  94.00 101.OC  108.50  116.60  125.40  545.50  272.61
2. Transfer to Pubifc Security       3.00  3.00  4.79  s.73 10.00  10.00   33.52   21.87  10.00 10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   50.00   25.17
3. Road construction and fprovement   62.88 82.66 90.00 107.50 115.56 136.00  531.72  356.91 264.76 315.47  366.49  44.77  571.80 2.003.29  988.63
4. Road rehabilitatIon              131.65 257.92 230.10 308.42 320.73 347.12 1,464.29  987.06 251.10 267.40  284.50. 302.60  321.55 1,427.15  713.94
S. Road mintenance                  114.24 120.11 90.31 98.00 103.21 96.58  508.21  349.92 134.50 147.95  162.80  179.05  196.95  821.25  409.44
6. Overhead, research and training   43.61 62.70 57.39 69.20 80.27 117.64  387.20  258.35 129.40 139.10  149.55  160.75  172.80  751.60  375.57
Total                       397.38 575.98 526.59 644.87 687.97 797.88 3,233.29 2,181.10 883.76 980.92 1.081.84 1,253.77 1,398.50 5,598.79 2,M.36
Deflator /_3                1.1110 1.2510 1.3123 1.5144 1.6310 1.6913               1.7928 1.9004  1.9954  2.0952  2.2000
X Growth p.m.                                                                   0.6X                                                   6.63
/ 1: Hainly fro the toll reveie of three Yellow River Brfdses (LuW . Zhagzhou  KAMifeng).
o2: Durifg 1986-1990, loans from local bank for the constructions of Zhezhou and Kifeng Yellou River Bridges.                                       N
During 1991-1995. loan frm IBID for the constructios of Henan hiuway project.
/3: For 1985-1990 period, 1964 constant price, Statistical Yearbook of Chine- 1986, pp. 58; 1987. pp. 55; 1988. pp. 56;                             0
1969, pp. 34; 1990, pp 40; 1991, pp. 38.
For 1991-1995 period1 Bun estimtes.
Source:  _en Provfncial Comnication Depwtmmnt, Chins



_ 125  -                                   Table  2.9
CHINA
HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
................................
Henan: Fuel Prices
..................
(Yuan per liter)
Before March 20, 1984     After March 20. 1984      Current- March 1992       Inter-
.......................              --             ....................... national
Planned Negoti-           Plnned Negoti-           Plannd Negoti-             prices
/_   ated /_b Market      /_a  ated /_b Market    /4   ated /_b Market        /_f
Gasoline
(70 oct) /_c    0.53      0.70    .       0.53     0.70   0.80      0.53      1.17    ..       0.57
index         100       132             100      132    151       100      221
Gasoline
(80 oct) /_c    0.56      0.73    ..      0.56     0.73   0.88      0.56      1.22    .        0.65
Index         100       130             100      130    157       100      218
Oiesel   /_d    0.36      0.68            0.44      0.68   0.86     0.44      1.14    ..       0.57
Irdex         100       189             122      189    239       122      317
Consumer price
index /_      . -.-----  100. . -     ------- 129.---------    ---- .184 .
Notes: /_*. Plamed allocation prices.
/_b. Negotiated bove quota.
c. Prices of gasoline include an aggregate of 43 percent contral governsent fuel taxes.
l.d. Prices of diesel include a 13 percent contral government fuel taxes.
*. Constuer prico index at end-of-year 1983, 1987 and 1990 repectively.
lf. Average iholesale prices for regular/premium unleaded gasoline  nd No. 2 diesel fuel,
FOB refineries, pipeline terminals and inland waterway barge torminals (March 30,
1992, Now Jersey).
Souces: Henan Provincial Cormamication Department, China
Plott's Oilgram Price Report, McGraw-Hill Inc, NY, NY, USA; Vol 70, No. 63, pp. S.



- 12S-
Table S.1
PaSa 1
gM
laid K nar,.ass iroarm  3.I                  a    on)MamAIvavdfia o75  1663.6
A. Roads Zov_veam                                    lot. r                  to 2  1al    3m2
nW aeat    Ibst              l                 Ttal"       W            iOr         a
1. qtzul rantkau.loa4a3                         I      U        III        it                $3 40    l0               1.
2. la1*a    Aacas.3RadA                         I       1p        -                 Ca        6.35      0             S .
3.Vainl.aoTatqLm  lafdA                       I       p        lit        Uz       Al      32.40      0    0        34.67       a
4. 1OngMz4audong Rood Jg                        I       1        1K?       K!       *        34.60      0    0        17.30      a
S. cbaMqtGa41aa Rood J                          I       1        III       Xl        6.00               0     0       4.50      .3
S. VA1obans3ag4% 3t load LS                     I       1        UK        U        A        24.50      -             11.00     .3
S. &oado Cosatguoton and lAbabtltattain Pr"oia                                                    0.00      0    0         0.00
C. liaral load Proleot.                                                                          56.70    1SO    5         4.63
1. ?ooaz1ng4Uaoba  load                                It1                 ITK      A        16.00      0    0         1.20      a
2.  la-yan4 ba  load I                          I       a          * Neat KY        a         U.7       0    0         2.50      a
3.  qODAIb-Laous  l Road                        I       I          - munt IT        6        11.00   1S0    5          1.03      A
2. rlrdaa   CtnizIotLos                                                                       I."     6       2        7.70
1. aganoBridge~                                 1      3 -I                                   1.54   536      I       6.50       a
2. Qsxan -wan hg. L                             I       I t                         u         0.12    Io      I        1.20      a
Subtotal..-Jroap t (firstasl   p                                                           au1.21   iii    £       m.$
A. load T.ravmt Proleota                                                                           1o1   72    15        Us*."        s
1.3adoo.Ca aloa"                                2      a        lit        K?       AS          46   335      6       37.60      A
2. Ku wan-Bordar lONA                           2      3         U         K?       As          10            *       16.00 o
S. Z5.av)aog-Wayang Sotier load                 2       1        KU        K!       A        16.00    140    2         6.00      3
o . Kat.Tacoaql" Road                           I       1        uK        K?       AN       26.00      0    0        14.00 e
5. Liam Twas5p-3"atan load                      2       1        in        K        C        67.00    UO      7        40.25      a
D. Awe GMOLlmgtl                    ftolont                                                 In." 5o5         7      140.60
1. lUAan-tahaba $rift* Read                     2      1        UK  Noes K?         As       70.40      0    0        74.4       A
2.  .       Lakaa4Uga Road Ulaal nt             2       U        lit        n       C            7    12      1        11.7      A
3. LrciPm 381464baricave Ised                  a       p        KU         K?      C        22.00      0    0         16.5       A
*.  d    _mboan-I                              2       p        in         it       AS       13.00    173    4          t3.70    A
S. ztam  mow          aseurom                 a       U        1ru    r ?          C            6    1t     2         10.2      A
C.         od Prolat                                                                           1260.00    475    3        1O.6
1. Qaaba  ToWbaiEARS lOa                        I       a            Veal IT        so       2.00    135      A        2.20      A
2. Auyaug-P  yag da Reed                        2       i                  TV       A        30.00    340     2        4U.2      A
3. was-Laoubass aad                             2       1 a        - r i   KY       6        35.00      0    0         2.m5       a
4.                  l2                                  a          *      l         A        15.00      0    0         3.00      A
S.         la               d                   2       a     r        Nt tm   tt             6.00      0    0         0."        a
6. ZtauJU.apa  load to Oiaangaban               a       a        KU       in        A        14.00      0    0         1.40
7. Danhaa-CboenRead ftga.golea                 2a                    NeAtl IT        6       40.00      0    0         3.20      A
P. IUiie ns1u                                                                                     1.21 1.203      7       14.40
1.C-4dM    Brltt                                a O                - d  r                     0.27   271      1        3.30      a
2. Slba         _       t   ld                  2       p         m         n0.12    166                      1        1.40       a
S. -an gAT""                                    a   r                                         0.24   1S0     I        1.60       a
4. Ltdb ai       d        oi                    2       p              _   n         J        0.22    205     1        2.70       a
S. Cad3auUs tda                                 2       p                                     0.      4uo     2    o .00          a
Subto -O4lpco  2 (bo         _ P ikUS)                                                       m11                    MAU E oLI



- 127 -
Tablo 3.1
Page 2
Adaini-             Road                                        Total   Rwirou.
lUP   etretive      Engineering               Total  _of WC OOt                  motel
group   claso          Class       Pravent  lenth          Bridla      astimsto  category
Lo     Lk      Current Improved  Type la   (km) A  L engtb No. LI  ( mlD)          LI
Stird P ehr
A. lads Imrovment Pr,JLgt_                                                                          3.60      0     0       22.26
1.b  SYn-Cb*naUn Road Realivmsnt                 S       P        UII        II       C         7.80      0    0         5.46       a
2. IlaquansLnh                                   S       R        III        It       C        24.00      0     0       16.60       t
3. loads Cotruetion and Robabilitation Protocta                                                    55.50      0     0       11.00
1. Sbanqlu-Tu-Wan Border load                    3       U        III        It                35.00      0    0        $0.00       A
2. lnhso-f rjqiu load                            9       P        III        UI       C        20.50      0    0        21.00       A
C. Rural load Prolotes                                                                              0.00      0     0        0.00
D.  3ridge Conatruction                                                                             0.55   550       1        7.00
Luoshan brthe rdgSo                              3       p                    -       -         0.55    350      I        7.00      a
Subtotal--Group 3 (Tbird Package)                                                             87.65    s i     I       60.26
Total-'Orouo 1. 2 &no 3                                                                      827.17  *.31S    40      493.73
Otbert
A. loads KIvrovesmt Projecto                                                                      151.00    385     4       153.60
1. TaSJing-ulLyang load                          4       a        III        II       A        28.00    224     2       24.00       3
2. RUeyang-ieohAsn  load                         4       1        III        It       A        32.00      0     0       27.40       t
3. 1srhs4U-IojUei4 lRoad                         4       U        III mount it        A        43.00     59     2       36.00       A
4. Iutha Bridgs-lanbuan Road                     4       0        lit        1i       A           18      -     .         15.4      a
5. Sbuiye-Llnzia  lod                            4       P        IIt        II       A        30.00      0     0       30.00       t
3. loads Construction and ehabbtltation Prolecta                                                   43.00      -     .       70.16
1. ZIzmi    City AccessRoad                      4       P          -        i1       A        14.00      0     0       40.00       a
2. Legqtu-aifen  Tsllow liver Bridge             4       P          -        i        A        21.50      0    0        22.00
S. Puao-Ch_nuan Road ealigzint                   4       P        IlI        UI       A          7.5      0     0        6.16
C. burl Road Prolecta                                                                              69.00      0    0         2.75
1. ZlmndiAn-lsbin a load                         4       R          - motun  IV       SS       10.00      0     0        0.70
2. Ziaguan Townbip-Laohusag Road                 4       R          - Mount IV        eS       39.00      0     0        2.05       I
0. Bridae Contruction                                                                              12.68  1,126              an
1. Chengge Intorchage                            4       U          -         -       -         9.04     35     1        9.60
2. Vaogdi"n lnrhe"ge                             4       U          -         -       -         1.54     35     1        7.00       I
3. ?ingbe Bridge                                 4       0          -         -       -         1.38    138     1        2.80       a
4. SObs Bridge                                   4       U          -         -       -         0.22    124      1       2.60        I
S.oiha3ridge                                     4       U          -                 -         0.05    151      1       3.50        1
6. Wn3 Bridge                                    4       P          -         -       -         0.11    104      1           1       a
7.  aSh. Bridrg                                  4       P          -         -       -         0.54    536     1        9.00       B
Subtotal--Group 4 (Others)                                                                   235.8  1.509    11       242.33
ORAND TOT4L                                                                                1.10S.0S  5.524    51       736.46
J/   I - Group I Projectsa  2 - Group UI Projectas    * Stand-by Projects for Group I and Group 2; and 4 * Other Projects.
k R * Iatioal Road s P - Proicial lodas R - Rural Roads.
o A * * Asphlt C - Concrete I A  - Aspbhlt sd Staoe  and 8S * Sand and StOne.
1 Inlud     the lengb of roads, bridges plus the accaes road to the bridge.
Including lrge- ed medium-sied bridges.
LA - Lnd acquiSitio   nd resettlement ar reqired  end 3 - Lnd acquisition and resettlement requirements arm little or nositent.
g  Roadst approved during loan negotiatioa.
lb  lads expected to be approaed upon submision, by December 31, 1992, of revised economic anlysis.



- 128 -
mma
LoclVr.d            otal    Loa   Votveoro    Total    ooats
(Iwuajams     ) *-       ---,-  ---------.loa          (5)
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
264.61    261.57    52.34    4S.5       47.9      96.6      50.0
(Ii) 6up1 sag $.UA64U.tIO. (3 W  U)                       2.41     5.64      60        004                 1:.46     70.0
(3Pllrorc~esoma)            122.02     61.96    164.00    28.39     11.37    13.76       13.7
1240.1    100.27    599.46    45.72    87.37      73 29      37.0
Subtotal                                                  638.0    470.46  111         JA17J14    0AZ7.    20.11       ad!
S. SHIO& 1.1gs Ofu-Xz0 co tmot4.43                                    6.61    .13.04      0.61      1.36      2.39      6.1
tb) P     1.1 and Rutal roada (Nouthoest  SM)               4.00      0.37     4.27      0.73      0.03      0.76       6.4
(C) Road topro,mmt Prateve                                   4.01     0.27      4.26      0.74      0.05      0.79      6.3
Subtotal                                                  1.244      Ljj        59 21J1.66                   L.1      U2.t
C. bdmt"
(C.               Z=2:488=7L6                           2.96     26.$3    29.91       0.55      4.92     5.47      69.9
(u) Ialtodag aN  taotln                                   0.10     0.46      0.96      0.02      0.16      0.16     U.9
(iAL) awlo,teutal protectic                                O.1s      1.36     1.s5      0.03      0.25      0.26      69.3
Subtotal                                                 3.23    29.05 -   2.29 gS              .33 L2U            fl
(b) Itantena_    of provincal   ural roa
(I) Routin  asmst e                                      1.74     13.27    1s.01      0.32      2.44      2.74      04.4
(Ii) P*riodic aattenat_                                   0.93      7.09     6.02      0.17      1.30      1.47      66.4
(tii) Wcntorla  an tootIn                                  0.11     0.64      0.95      0.02      0.13      0.17      66.2
(Iv)    S    Road Dta  a                                  0.71      .46      6.19       0.13     1.01      1.14      i6.6
Subtotal                                                3.49     26.66    30.17      L.jj      4.90      5.54      8&4
Subtotal--qu#..nt                                                    55.73    6245       1.24     10.23    I.47        69.2
L T                                                     0.0        0.16     0.22      0.01      0.03      0.04      75.0
)    t                                                              s0.39  1.90  2.29  0.07     0.35      0.42      63.3
Subtotal                                                0.43      2.03                 0 La    O.."      O."       ad
(b) Hlghoay Vocationl Schol
(I) Trait                                                0.0      0.02      0.02      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.0
(it) Squipeat                                            3.27       1.53     1.60      0.05      0.24      0.29      52.6
Subtotal                                                0.27      1&U      "A        LOS       0.24      02A9      62.$
(c) rHihwy sUceutoe Reaearcb Iwtituts
(1) remaintn                                             00       0.0       02        000        .04      0.04     200.0
(S) arpmf                                                °0: 2°                St 2° °   oso°   02          °      1°°
(ii)  quipinant                            0.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~O7  1.1320  ?1.  0.05  0.:24     0.29      62.6
Subtotal                                                0.29      1.52 .aLL          0.05      OU        L01       61.6
7d 11    CAU 1   i d  Dodp  titut
C)   f           at0.05                                           0.23      0.20      0.01      0.04      0.03      60.0
(ti) squipment                                            0.30     2.49      2.9A      O.        O.4       0.55     63.6
Subtotal                                                0.55      2.n      L. 7      0.10      0.30      0.60      t
(         a) 31gbwra  Ce oa ntasrt  Autbority
CUt ?tinif                                              0.11      1.22      1.33      0.02      0.23      0.2S      92.0
(ti) Equipmet                                             0.16     0."       1.04      0.03      0.16      0.19      64.2
Subtotal                                                0.29     34j       LU        0.03      LU        0.44      U.(
~~ Ipsiltuticoal etremthanlna  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.65              20          0      L -        .        69.5
TqF  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rO   n                           : J -              m        i -        m
TotEl                                                       1U      9L7!       1 1.5_6   0.33      170
*. r. s~
abrad                                              0.06      1.03     1.11      0.01      0.19      0.20      95.0
(b) Train  abroad                                            0.0 1..0           1.17      0.02      n.20      0.22      90.
(a) Deneet"i trn                                             0.02     0.2       0.2       0.00      0.05      0.05     100.0
(d) Superisic  tning                                         0.33      1.14     1.47      0.O6      0.21      0.27      76.0
Subtotal.                                                   L-U      Li        L         LU        LU        0.i      NZAl
0. a f d   lt811  0.93  8:,0    0.:02  0°17      0.        69.5
111) M.U."at                                 Ull~~~~0.1  0.31    0.3       002       0.0      0.0       73.0
(c)                                                           1.09   0.00      1.09      0.20      0.00      0.20       0.0
Subtotal.                                                   L-U      L           3d      LII       LU        L
So      coat e" a" SS.'121os                                                                                      0.4
aobonslee  1*                                    117.61     ".11    165.7      21.S9      6.4U     50.04      26.1
Subtotal                                                 $f3.24   654.17  1Jjj7.41    154.61    120.00   274.l1
Lad ecqwlitian ai rsettl3ant                                   141.10      0.00    141.10    25.69      0.00     25.69       0.0
TOtAL    23CS  005?                                       964.34    64.17  LAL.U1         1      120.00    300.70      MaQ
La 10 percet at Items A ad 3.



- 129 -                            Tabltt
CHIA
HEIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
($ million)
Disburement
profile
of transport
projects
Bank fiscal year                    Eotimated disbuwsements             in China
and semester                     Semester   Cumulative        2             2
1993
Juno 30, 1993                     12La/b       12          10            0
994
December 31, 1993                 12           24          20            6
June 30, 1994                     14           38          32           11
1995
December 31, 1994                 16           54          45           16
June 30, 1995                     16           70          58           26
:a99
December 31, 1995                 14           84          70           38
June 30, 1996                     12           96          80           48
1m
December 30, 1996                 12          108          90           60
June 30, 1997                      6          114          95           69
1998-
December 31, 1997                  4          118          98           70
June 30, 1998                      2          120         100           76
December 31, L998                  0          120         100           98
Notes  Project Completion Date:  June 30, 1997
Loan Closing Date: June 30, 1998
lI Including payment Into special account of $7.0 million and advance
payments to contractors*
Lk Physical works on one section of the Zhengzhou-Luoyang Expressway
eommenced under retroactive financing in April 1992.
Sources Mission's estimate.



CHINA
Henan Provincial Highway Project
............... ........................._
Zhenzhou - Luoyang Expressway
Price Caonersion Factor For Capital Costs
............. ..........................._.,._  _
(In mitlion Yuan)
shbigjie (Yingyang)-
Zhengzhou- ShangilI (Yinhyang)                  Tanshi (Gonxian)        Yanshi (Gongxian)- Luoyang
Price  ------------------------. --                            , ,-_-__
conver      Financial          Economic         Financial          Econamic         Financiat          Economic
-sion                                           --------------  ........-....   _---------
factor tocat Foreign Total  Locat  Total  Local Foreign Total  Local  Total  Local foreign total  Local  Total
Land                           1.00  20.46          20.46  20.46  20.46  10.26          10.26  10.26  10.26   8.48          8.48   8.48   8.48
Labor:
Unskilled                   0.66   1.93           1.93   1.27   1.27   1.70           1.70   1.12   1.12   1.36          1.36   0.90   0.90
Semi skilled/Technician    1.51   7.70           7.70  11.63  11.63   6.77           6.77  10.22  10.22   5.42           5.42   8.18   8.18
Supervisor                 3.00   1.71           1.71   5.13   5.13   1.49           1.49   4.47  4.47   1.20            1.20   3.60   3.60
Haterials:
Steel                      2.32  10.68  21.10  31.78  24.78  45.88   5.85  11.6  17.11  13.57  24.83   3.49   7.32  10.81   8.10  15.42
Timber                     0.99   7.75  15.33  23.08   7.67  23.00   4.93   9.#*8  14.41   4.88  14.36   1.30   2.70   4.00   1.29   3.99
Cement                      3.75   8.03  15.87  23.90  30.11  45.98   4.28   8.23  12.51  16.05  24.Z8  4.71   9.85  14.56  17.66  27.51
Sand                        1.00   8.36          8.36   8.36   8.36   5.19           5.19   5.19   5.19   5.46           5.46   5.46   5.46
Stone                      1.00  18.94          18.94  18.94  18.94   7.49           7.49   7.49   7.49  10.70          10.70  10.70  10.70
situmen                     1.00   1.43          1.43   1.43   1.43   1.59           1.59   1.59   1.59   1.38           1.38   1.38   1.38
others                      2.00   9.52  18.80  28.32  19.04  37.84   2.27  4.37   6.64   4.54   8.91   2.67   5.60   8.27   5.34  10.94
Fuel:
Diesel                      1.82   5.83          5.83  10.61  10.61   6.13           6.13  11.16  11.16  6.32            6.32  11.50  11.50
Gasoline                    1.67   0.94          0.94   1.57   1.57   0.20           0.20   0.33   0.33   0.50           0.50   0.84   0.84
Heavy oil                  2.80
Others                      1.60
Electricity                    5.00   0.84          0.84   4.20   4.20   1.03           1.03   5.15   5.15   0.52           0.52   2.60   2.60
Construction                   1.90   1.59          1.59   3.02   3.02   0.90           0.90   1.71   1.71   0.52           0.52   0.99   0.99
Mechanical equipment           1.70   3.08   6.10   9.18   5.24  11.34   3.41   6.54   9.95   5.80  12.34   3.17  6.63   9.80   5.39  12.02
Others                         1.00  19.70  51.29  70.99  19.70  70.99  15.46  39.06  54.52  15.46  54.52  13.68  38.78  52.46  13.68  52.46
Total                        128.49 128.49 256.98 193.16 321.65  78.95  78.94 157.89 118.99 197.93  70.88  70.88 141.76 106.09 176.97
t:=:=== -:~~= ====== W==#S= ===  ==  ===- 5 ===CC ====== =CCC   C  =  ==  =C-C ====C __C__
overall conversfon factor                                          1.25                                1.25                                1.25
Ne ilcc t asd ra  r l  p=
Note: Similar calculation also apply to all provincial and rural rural roads proJects. 
.0



X_mem prooela    al Nigiy Proelc
traffic oa tla Project 11"4o
~~~~~~~~~~~...... ........ ___.......___....._.._.....
(VII)
.--s  .......  _   .............-Tra-_  k--_ tt ctorl   ----Sw- ----Dm i-Truck------ Trcet oi
sell  Large  Smll  Nadlma  Large trailer  total  Small                    ml Mdiu   Large traUils total
_ ______ -:....   _         _         _        _         _        _         _        _        _       _       _        399 .........4)..............4...................._. (I )- -
I he3abom            s    o          1,16    052    616   1,Xe    "a0   *50   5,49   2,053  1.415   1.025  2.U59    930    749  9,313
a""mall,                              1104.   403    304        So03           23    2.696  1.330    669         303 1.130    574            4.5 63$12
3                  - Ta                 9      30s    323       900    370    297   3.051  1.156    640         536  1.620    514    494  5,066
-------------           2es-----. I )---------------  --------------------- (20e0)---------------------
I lbeoabou                          4  I,9  2,390  1,131   3.646   859  1,9.   15,941  6.10  3,050   2.210  4.655  2.608  2,096 20.769
2 SbIIc            - s1              2,261  1 129    *5s   2.246  3:"146              6.426  2,6       440 1   6,6  2.666  361       1,309 10,997
T am               - eoau            3.954  1.00    90    2.750  1.226         67   6905s 23.49"4    319   1.156  3.510  1.723  1.565 13.45
-                --         (       03).. -...    .. 42e. --
I ZbgbOu                    to      1,806  3,S24  2.554  539  ",I013  2,424  24,000
2 S     1.- 3,664   8, .  3,659  2,2S5  13555  14.379
3                  - Luaug           3.113  1,40  1.476   4.461  2,414  1.941  15.25S
Proviacal &*d..
...........(3990)-----------------------(996) ------------
I Soaxaa           - Smcua 
Sa .:au_a       - Llr00ba            416    126    253       634    16*   131   1.706    603    183           363    620    215    393  2.3175 
Jlaocua          - CabuoC             "5     109    256      656   134        06   2.250  1.445    859        372    954    212    12S  3.267
Dooe4baaUgq ao -   cgas              319    122    242    s53        276    207   1.745    5e0   177          351   7154    40        300  2.533
2 Lupang-  Tellow River .rige    560    416    426             629    5J7    564   3.316        642    605      616    912    629    686  4,624
3    uala          - Qipaca,           310    861    I5        361    is5    366  13529    453    234           230    52A    218    564  2,220
L uO                                           I tanila  201    806    304  234    30 26   8.001  300    153    151    3)9    143    372  1.460
S 6anjL;2 1m         XZaoping           13       1      56     274    136    426        900      19       1      as    396    I99    616  1,316
                      (------------------- -2005)(203 ----5-- --------------------- 5)201---------------------
I Snomnmla         - Sogscuu:
Ssa nxmi         - L3.gbao         1,019    311    614   1.555    430    360   4.309  1,659    505   1,001  2.532    646    746  7,291
3l1ocun         - Ouarnbaogcua  2.440    260    629   16112    423    250  5s622  3.975    437   1 .024  2,626    s8.    491  9.3a4
DoUS.buangqlao - Songrun             929    296    593    214    6ao00    600   4.494  1,S13    465           966  2.075  13,53  1.160  7.192
2 Laoang-  Yllow livter  riLdge  1,421  1,023  1.043   I,543  1.656  1.635   6 321  2.314  1,665   1,699  2,581  3.261  3,215 14.665
3HMegaa            - Qlngan            761    396    388       865    4371 1327   3:994  1.239    645           632  1,441    358  2,217  7.032
4  1oa             - I2 1asa           501    259    254       573    291    744   2.626    821    422          414    934    513  1.463  4.633
S Sanjiaskou       - Xlioping           32       1    137      613    396  1.235   2.416         52       1     224  13096    184  2.430  4.580
_- -.......... -__--                      .  . .  .............. _. .............. _  . . ... . 
Rural road.,
---------- -........1990                                            89 ........ .-95---- .--------2004-------- --------2009-------
Nornl Tractorl          Normal Tractorl         llormal Tractorl         Normal Tractori
traffic trailer Total trafftc tistler Total traffic trailer Total treffic traller Total
c. Ulne Prefecturel
1. CbeaUzuan   - Slcuaqlao          144      34    178       176      42    218      273      65    336       349     83    432
2. tolpligkou  - Rely.               340      32    312      171      40    211      265      62    327       338     79    417
b. Jilpn Prefectures
3. 11n          - stye               124     28    352       353      36    369      237      56    293       302     11    373
4. Luaang   - lhatonu                129     26    155       159      32    191      247      S0    297       315     65    380
S.ila- Prefectures
5. 1 aicb a-    smug                 161     32    393       898      40    236    S38        62    36V       392     79    471
6.  aodaAN    - Uan%"                IS      40    196      194      46    2U4      301      15    376       364     96    46



CHINA
Nenan Provincial Highway Project
................................
Economic Project Cost
(1991 prices, million Yuan)
Econo dc shadow   ----------Financial Cost /I 1---------                    ---------Economic Cost----------------
price factor    1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   Total             1991    1992    1993   1994   1995    Total
Expre  any:
Zheqgbou       - Shangile        1.25          34.12   14.92  69.08  70.98  67.08  256.98           42.65   18.65   87.35  88.13  83.85   321.23
Shangjle       - Yanshi          1.25          21.34    7.21  43.72  46.98  38.64  157.89           26.68    9.01   54.65  58.73  48.30   197.37
Yanshi         - Luyoang         1.25          20.64   24.14  48.70   8.28   0.00  141.76           25.80   30.18   60.88  60.35   0.00   177.21
Total- Expressuay                          76.10   46.27 162.30 166.24 105.72  556.63           95.13   57.84  202.88 207.81 132.15   695.81
......    ......... ......  ......... ... ....   .. ......  ......... ......    ......... ......  ...... ... ...... ......... ..... .. ....  ....
Provinvial Roads:
................
I Sannxia         - SongcuM
Sanmnxia       - Lingbao         1.37           0.00    5.80  19.34  24.18  26.29   75.61            0.00    7.95   26.50  33.13  36.02   103.60
Jiaocun        - Guanshangoun   1.43            0.00    0.00   9.68  17.40  18.48   45.56            0.00    0.00   13.84  24.88  26.43    65.15
Donpshuwngqlao - Songcun         1.45           0.00    0.00   0.00   4.69   5.02    9.71            0.00    0.00    0.00   6.80   7.28    14.08
Subtotal                        0.00    5.80  29.02  46.27  49.79  130.88            0.00    7.95   40.34  64.81  69.73   182.83
.....    ...... ..... ....... ......    ......... ......   ...... . .. ......  ------  -----.  -- --   -- --    . --.----..... 
2 Luoyang Yellow River Bridge      1.46           0.00    8.57   9.78  14.66   2.82   35.83            0.oe   12.51   14.28  c.40   4.12    52.31
3 Meqian          - Gingyang       1.42           0.00    6.70  19.18  19.18  13.50   58.56            0.00    9.51   27.24  27.24  19.17    83.16
4 Boai            - lensian         1.59          0.00    4.87  12.92   4.90   0.00   22.69            0.00    7.74   20.54   7.79   0.00    36.07
5 Sanjiaokou      - Xiaoping        1.44          0.00    2.91   6.79   9.71   5.71   25.12            0.00    4.19    9.78  13.98   8.22    36.17
Total- Provincial Roads                      0.00   28.85  77.69  94.72  71.82  273.08            0.00   41.90  112.18 135.22 101.24   390.54
....~~~~~..    ... .  ... .  ... .  ... .    ..........  ...    ....     ... .. ..       ...
Rural road:
...........
a. Xinan Perfecture:
1. Chaouggun   - Sleuigiao       1.13          0.00    0.00   0.90   0.95   0.00    1.85             0.00    0.00    1.02   1.07   0.00      2.09
2. Talpingkou  - Beiye           1.12           0.00    0.00   1.16   1.44   0.00    2.60            0.00    0.00    1.30   1.61   0.00      2.91
b. Jiyuan Perfecture:
3. twngwu      - Xiaye           1.12           0.00    0.00   0.95   1.22   0.00    2.17            0.00    0.00    1.06   1.37   0.00      2.43
4. Liuzhuang   - Nibetou         1.20           0.00    0.00   1.46   1.41   0.00    2.87            0.00    0.00    1.75   1.69   0.00      3.4
c. Nuixian Perfecture:
5. aeixhlI     - Naoping         1.16           0.00    0.00   0.97   1.17   P.00    2.14            0.00    0.00    1.13   1.36   0.00      2.49
6. Gaowzuang   - Hankou          1.27           0.00    0.00   0.97   0.96   0.00    1.93            0.00    0.00    1.23   1.22   0.00      2.45
Total- Runal Roads                          0.00    0.00   6.41   7.15   0.00   13.56            0.00    0.00    7.49   8.32   0.00    15.81
......  ...... .... ...... ......  ......           ......  ......  ...... ...... ......   ...... 
Grnd Totat                                     76.10   75.12 246.40 268.11 177.54  843.27          95.13   99.74  322.55 351.35 233.39 1,102.16
/_1: Met of taxes, interest pasyents nd price contingency.



_  13 3                                                       l
CHINA
Nmnan Provincial NIgIiway Project
................................
E:onomic Vehicte Opertfing Costs by Type of Vehicle and Rosd Type
.................................................................
(1991, Y 1er km)
. Good .-                      Fit .. poo.
flat                  flat                  Flat
rstl   HIlL Mount.   roll   MILL  ounet.   roll   mfII Mount.
A. Paved rtad:
auuaaua.ua
smtal  car              1.00   1.05   1.08   1.12   1.17   1.20   1.45   1.50   1.53
SaimLl bus              O.S5   0.77   0.8?   0.75   0.87   0.97   0.96   1.07   1.17
Mediun Bus              1.02   1.19   1.33   1.21   1.39   1.53   1.60   1.71   1.89
Large Ws                1.35   1.65   1.91   1.51   1.82   2.0?   1.83   2.12   2.38
Smtl truck              0.35   0."   0.51   0.40   0.48   0.55   0.c8   0.56   O."1
Madfin truck            0.47   0.58   0.69   0.53   0.65   0.76   0.64   0.76   0.88
Large trtuck            0.78   0.96   1.13   0.87   1.06   1.22   1.03   1.22   1.40
Tractor/trailer         1.28   1.68   2.04   1.39   1.80   2.16   1.65   2.05   2.41
S. Unpaved road:
Small car               1.35   1.61   1."1   1.77   1.83   1.85   2.42   2.46   2.49
SaimL  bus              0.90   1.06   1.16   1.10   1.24   1.33   1.39   1.51   1.60
Mo4dfun But             1.51   1.72   1.86   1.85   2.05   2.18   2.35   2.52   2.65
Large bus               l.n7   2.12   2.37   2.07   2.40   2.64   2.51   2.82   3.06
Smtll truck             0.46   0.56   0.6o   0.54   o.64   0.72   0.66   0.76   0.84
Medium truck            0.61   o.7s   1.13   0.70   0.85   1.29   0.86   1.00   1.52
Large truck             0.79   0.99   1.16   o.8    1.08   1.25   1.05   1.24   1.42
Tractor/trailer         1.38   1.76   2.09   1.49   1.88   2.21   1.71   2.10   2.44
Source: 1. China: Cuangdo   Provfncs Conprehwfve tranpore Study; Vol. tI; AS3TP,
Jurne 28, 1990, pp. t1.
2. Updated by 10S to 199 prfced.



cam
Sem   S;;IniillUhpq  Project
7       Lacpuig   pre.ma
Coct41*nfit aslysit
(336111cm lua n3991 prices)
Zhsabom. Sheail. tlia.sal)                      ShugIe t           ).  aunbb  ttofnlca)                     t     Cawma  (Co zisa)- Lopa                        total- Eapresaus
Cost     -      ----                  -----  C-s--                    - -f in   -                     Costs ---fle-f--                                   Coa          _ ----  -Beosfits----------
--------------  bCC  Rduced  educed    -__________---_  IIOC         Reduced Reduced       _______-_____iVCC            Reduced Reduced       -- -----------               lI ducod Reduc&d
mt Goer-  cor.  ccd- met                           aet Ganr-  cong.  sccid- Not                       Got Gmenr-  corg.  accid- Net                      met    er-  cong.  ccci-  Iet
Coat-  Rod       a-    *td  *l.  eas   cash Comet- Road    scv-   aged  *.3st.  *agt   cash cost-  Road    sav-   mtad  sxet.  *Ots   cash Coast- lod    acW-   ated   iet,. cnte   casb
Tesr ructicn m.i.t.  lg. taffic  road              flowg ruction Halot.  trgs traffic  road            flow ruction "aint.  'no. traffic  road            flew rection Wa.  usgs traffic  road               fla
3993  42.65                                      (42.45) 26.66                                       (26.6O) 25.80                                      (2S.80) 95.13                                       (95.13)
992  la.65                                      4*.5    .1(9.011 30.18                                                                                 (30.18) 17.64                                       (37.661
3993  87.5                                        (87.4) 54.61                                       (54 65) 60 .8                                      '60.6'8202.88                                      7202.8)
399   88.35                                       (8.?) 58.7                                         (38.75) 60.35                                     (60.353207.81                                       (207.61)
3995  $3.85                                      (63.81) 48.30                                       (48.30)  0.00   0.08  24.49   6.12   6.81   u.33  31.68 132.15   0.0  24.49   6.12   6.81   0.33  (94.47)
3996          0.13  9).00  23.75  16.81   0.47 335.96             0.12  58.00  14.50   1.33   0.76  74.47            0.08  26.00   6.50   7.21   0.33  *0.02            0.33 179.00  44.75  25.45   1.56  250.45
1997          0.11 303.34  25.33  17.94   0.47 344.97             0.32  63.85  35.46   3.42   0.76  79.37            0.08  27.60   6.90   7.76   0.33  42.51            0.31 190.79  47.69  27.12   1.56  266.85
1998          0.1I308.0  27.02  39.30   0.4) 354.58               0.12  65.96  36.49   1.52   0.76  84.61            0.08  29.30   7.32   8.28   0.334130.32.61.8 2.9                                1562.4
999          I0 1  315.31  28.82  20.34   0.4i 164.t3             0.12  70.34  17.58   1.63   0.76  9019o 0.08  31310   7.77   8.83   0.33 47.95                        0.31 216.75  54.17  30.80   3.56  302.97
2000          0.11 323.00  30.75  21.65   0.47 175.76             0.12  75.00  18.75   1.35   0.76  96.14            0.0.  3.00   8.25   9.42   0.33  50.92             0.31 233.00  57.75  32.82   1.56  322.82
2001          0.13  133.07  32.77  23.06   0.47 187.26            0.12  79.91  19.98   1.87   0.76 102.40            0.08  34.63   8.66  10.06   0.53 53.60             0.31 241.63  63.43  34.99   1.56  343.26           W
2002          0.11 139.67  34.92  24.56   0.47 199.51             0.12  85.14  21.29   2.00   0.76 109.07            O.0  36.34   9.09  10.74   0.33  56.42             0.31 261.15  65.30  37.30   3.36  345.00
2003          0.11 134.83  37.21  26.16   0.47 212.56             0.12  90.72  22.68   2.14   0.76 316.16            0.08  38.14   9.54  31.47   0.33  59.40            0.31 277.69  69.43  39.77   1.56  388.14
2004          0.3  S859  59.65  27.8    0.47 26.46                0.2  96.6  24.37   2.29   0.16 323.16              0.32  40.02  10.01  12.25   0.336740.52.7738 4.0 316 1.3
2005          0.37 169.00  42.25  29.66   0.47 241.22             0.38 103.00  25.75   2.47   o.76 333.0             0.12  42.00  10.50  13.07   0.33  65.18            0.47 314.00  78.50  45.20   1.56  438.60
2006          0.17 378.15  44.54  31.31   0.47 254.33             0.36 108.69  27.22   2.62   0.76 139.31            0.08  44.49  11.12  13.63   0.33  69.69            0.43 313.53  62.88  47.76   1.56  463.31
2007          0.11 387.80  46.95  33.05   0.47 2       6.36       0.12 115.11  28.78   2.78   0.76 147.31            0.0  47.12  33.76  14.64   0.33  73.79             0.31 350.03  875bl 50.47   1.56  469.26
2006          0.33 197.97  4.49  34G.8    0.47 282.70             0.12 121.69  30.43   2.95   0.76 155.71            0.08  49.91  12.46  15.49   0.33  78.33            0.31 369.57  92.40  53.32   1.56  516.54
2009          0.13 208.69  32.37  36013   0.47 2981.03            0.32 128.61  32.37   3.13   0.76 164.59            0.08  52.87  33.22  16.39   0.33  62.73            0.33 390.21 97.56  56.33   3.56  545.35
2030          0.33 220.00  55.00  36.85   0.47 334.23             0.32 336.00  34.00   3.33   0.76 173.97            0.08  36.00  14.00  17.33   0.33  67.60            0.33 ",12.00 103.00  59.53   3.56  575.76
2031          0.33 232.50  58.32  39.93   0.47 330.89             0.32 143.68  35.92   3.54   0.76 133.78            0.08  59.21  14.80  17.12   0.33  91.38            0.3Z 435.39 08.64  60.57   1.56  606.05
2012          0.11 245.71  61.42  41.00   0.47 348.49             0.12 IS3.60  37.95   3.76   0.76 396.35            0.0   62.60  15.65  16.69   0.33  95.39            0.31 40.11  315.02  61.65   1.56  638.03
2013          0.33 259.67  64.81  42.12   0.47 367.06             0.12 160.37  40.09   3.19   0.76 205.09            0.08  66.19  16.55  16.67   0.33  99.66            0.313468.23 121.55  62.76   3.56  671.91
2014          0.33 274.42  68.60  43.27   0.47 3806.85            0.12 369.43  42.35   4.24   0.76 236.64            0.08  69.96  37.50  16.45   0.33 104.38            0.33 513.83 328.45  63.96   1.54  070169
2015          0.33 290.00  72.50  46.65   0.47 407.31             0.12 179.00  44.75   4.49   0.76 228.8             0. 0   74.00  38.50  16.23   0.33 308.98           0.3  543.00 335.15  65.17   3.56  741517
fetal 323.23                                              367.37                                             177.23                                             695.63l
m  -                   ~~~~~~~~~32.82                                      28.92                                             23.73                                                21.82
319 4322) -  658.43                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~347.63                           340.26                                             33416.29
first Tear otwu  -             331.42                                             25.02                                               15.72                                              26.32
3l1t. the ce' elation of ES for the first 7ear _seem   a 122 appoutmlty coat of capitel in Cime.
4s
0n



cam
flna Pro,vinciai Niga  Proec
Provirneial Nigh.., in NV Iun
Coot-Saintit hayeie
(milion tloan 1991 prices
.oyeng.- follow .   ver Bridge Accels_Road                   tgtan- Qlimjfst Road                                Sosl- IWemmin Read                                Ssvjlsaok- XlSopLng Road
Costs                -Benfits .                    Cots       ----------- Benefit----------           Coatt      -----B-- enesift- i--t-- -               Costs       -----------   tfits--_-----
_-________   COC           Reduced               -------------   VOC          ReduCed               ----- -------  11CC           Reduced               -------------   VCC          Reduced
Cspital          not cnr.  cong. Reduced Net Capitel                nat Goner-  cong.  Reduced get CapLt.l             met  Gener-  cong. Roduced let Capitel              net  Cer-  cong.  Reduced Nat
eoat- 'Road    sav-  atd  exist. accid-  cash conat- .Road            W-   *ted  exist. aceld- cash ronst-  Road    $"-    4ted   dIst. aceld-  casb croot-  Road    sav-   ated  extet. accid-  cash
ese. ruction Ibint.  it; traffic road    onts   fiw ruectlo Ifalot.  logs traffic road    *mte   flow ruction Ialat.  lgn  traffic rood    ents  flo, suction 11Int.  loge traffic road    ans   flos
5992  11.31                                     (12.511 9.51                                         49.51)  1.14                                         (7.74)  4.19                                       (4.19)
1995  14.28                                      (14.28) 21.24                                      (27.24) 20.54                                        (20.541  9.78                                       (.1B)
1994  21.40                                      (21.403 21.24                                      (21.24)  1.79                                        (1.719  33.9                                       (33.eB
1195   4.11                                       (4.12) 19.17                                      (19.17)          0.04    6.66   0.5B   0.53   0.12   9.85   0.22                                        18.22)
1996          0.0)  10.69   3.34   0.00   0.08  12.08              .CS  10.15   1.28   1.21   0.34  12.19            0.04    9.06   1.3)   0.71   0.12  33.00            0.05   6.60   0.82   0.32   0.06   7.75
tol           0.0o3  113.2   1.43   0.00 0808  12.90             0.05  10.84   1.36   1.36   0.14  13.65             0.04    9.65   1.22   0.16   0.12  11.21            0.05   7.08   0.88   0.34   0.06   8.31
lots          0.03  12.19   1.53   0.00   0.08  13.71            0.05  11.3B   3.415  1.45   0.14  34.51             0.04   30.28   1.30   0.81   0.12  32.47            0.05   1.59   0.44   0.37   0.06   8.91           -
is"           0.02  13.02   3.65   0.00   6.08  34.70            0.05  12.37   5.55   3.55   0.34  35.56             0.04   30.95   1.38   0.81   0.12  13.29            0.05   S.4   1.01   0.40   0.06   9.56           wA
2000          0.02  13.90   1.14   0.00   0.08  35.69             0.05 1o.21   3.65   1.65   0.14  36.60             0.04   35.66   3.46   0.93   0.12  34.35            0.05   8.12   i.09   0.43   0.06  30.25           Vl
2001          0.05  14.06   I.36   0.00   0.08  16.71             0.05  14.12   3.16   3.71   0.l4  J1.74            0.04   12.46   3.56   0.99   0.32  15.09            0.05   9.36   3.11   0.46   0.06  I1.00
202           0.05  3S.6   1.99   0.00   0.08  31.92              0.05  15.09   3.88   1.9   0.34  18.95             0.04   33.29   3.66   3.06   0.32  16.09            0.05  10.0S   1.26   0.49   0.06  II:8$
2003          0.03  36.97   2.13   0.00   0.0N  19.15             0.0o  16.32   2.01   2.02   0.14  20.24            0.04   14.31   1.77   3.33   0.32  31.35            0.05  10.79   1.35   0.53   0.06  12.68
2004          0.05  18.14   2.20   0.00   0.08  20.41             0.03  31.22   2.35   2.36   0.14  23.62            0.06   13.11   1.69   1.21  0.32  18.21             0.05  33.58   1.45   0.51   0.06  13.61
2005          0.05  39.30   2.42   0.00   0.06  21.83             0.08  38.40   2.30   2.32   0.14  23.08            0.06   16.31   2.02   1.29   0.32  39.48            0.06  12.45   3.55   0.62   0.06  34.58
2006          0.05  20.52   2.56   0.00   0.08  23.33             0.08  39.48   2.43   2.46   0.34  24.43            0.04   31.02   2.33   1.31   0.32  20.60            0.08  13.22   1.65   0.66   0:06  IS.5M
2001          0.05  23.13   2.11  0.00   0.08  24.49              0.05  20.63   2.51   2.63   0.34  23.90            0.04   31.98   2.25   1.45   0.32  21.16            0.05  14.06   3.76   0.71   0.06  16.54
2006          0.03  23.01   2.8    0.00   0.08  25.93             0.05  21.85   2.12   2.71   0.14  27.43            0.04   19.00   2.38   1.54   0.32  23.00            0.05  14.96   3.88   0.76   0.06  31.63
2009          0.03  24.37   3.04   0.00   0.08  21.46            O.OS  23.14   2.80   2.94   0.34  29.03             0.04   20.08   2.51   3.63   0.32  24.30           0.05  35.91   2.00   0.83   0.06  10.73
3030          0.03  25.60   3.23   0.00   0.08  29.08             0.05  24.50   3.05   5.32   0.34  30.76            0.04   23.22   2.66   3.13   0.32  25.69            0.05  36.93   2.33   0.87   0.06  19.94
2035          0.05  27.35   3.42   0.00   0.06  30.80             0.05  25.96   3.23   3.35   0.34  32.59            0.04   22.43   2.83   3.64   0.32  271.6            0.05    36.02   2.21   0.92   0.06  23.22
2012          0.05  28.95   3.62   0.00   0.06  32.62            0.05  21.31   3.43   3.31  0.34  34.34              0.04   23.11   2.97   3.96   0.12  26.12            0.05  19.39   2.42   0.98   0.06  22.59
2035          0.05  50.01   3.83   0.00   0.08  34.55             0.03  29.35   3.64   3.72   0.34  36.60            0.04   25.01   5.34   2.08   0.32  30.31            0.05  20.43   2.S5   3.04   0.06  24.04
2034          0.05  32.49   4.06   0.00   0.08  36.               0.0   30.69   3.86   3.95   0.14  38.19            0.04   26.50   5.32   2.21   0.32  32.33            0.05  23.72   2.75   3.33   0.06  23.59
2831          0.05  34.45   4.33   0.60   0.06  39.9              0.05  32.75   4.09   4.20   0.34  43.33            O.04   28.02   3.50   2.35   0.12  33.95            0.05  25.10   2.93   3.38   0.06  27.20
Total  52.31                                              63.36                                               36.07                                               36.37
ms *                           23.6*                                               w1.01                                              27.92                                              22.33
(V33) a                   48.70                                              32.49                                               57.57                                              32.55
firsn lesm   trn71 *              1.0.6 13.2                                                                                          3.*                                                36.32
awsg  a th e alculsgi of 1t  fow the firest losr assnme a 322 oppectnity eost of ecital In China.
3-3



creIIel I          Project
Cuet-nf it heysi
Ohllion4Z Tss., 3993 trices*)
S_uamule. Liughoe                       JAsecn- Ouaushsegcou                            Dogshuangiao- SSegcua                                         total
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                    -----                              ---- 4  ft----  -- --                          --  ---  --------------  cft- --------------  efi---- -------
Coot.  -3.nofits-                  Coot.~~~~~~~~;;; -----     Its        .         Costs -----                it sCosts    ------ 4o ie -f-t----
-o 900       Re----------ed                                 Reduced              --------9cC                 Reduced             --------IcC                Reduced
Capital        net Caer- come. Reduced Not Capital             net Coer-        . Reduced Pot Capital          rwt  Ganr- con. Reduced Not Capital             net Caner- co. Rednced Not
eot- Ree    sew-  ated  exist. saeld- caeb *cost- Road   sav-  sted           t. accid- cas cast- Road   OaW-   etad exist. secid- cash cont- Reed   saw-   td est. accd- cash
Tses. intion aIst. ings traffie roa    ants  floe iwtznd    "slet.  ts traffie road   ents  fl.  OCtllon haint. 1ags  traffic road   onto  flow ruetton Paint. lugs traffle rod    ents  fin
3"9   7.9s                 -7.95)                                                                                                                     7.95                                    (7.93)
309  24.50                                   (26 .0)  3.64                                   (33.64)                                                 40.34                                   (40.34)
3994  33.13                                  (35.33) 2It (2.68)  6.60                                                                         (6.80) 64.83                                   (e4._1
"9S  36.02                                   (363.02) 2643                                   (26.43)  I.6(.2)6.3                                                                             6.3
3it"         0.0?  12.46   1.35   3.54   0.21 37 .49         0.05  30.05   J.25   0.00  0.14  11.3          0.01    3.64   0.20   0.00   0.03   I.66         0.13  24.15  3.00   3.34   0.36  30.74
309          0.07  33.26   3.61   3.s6  0.22  16.63          0.05  10.66   13.3   0.00  0.14  32.10         0.01    3.75  0.22  0.00  0.03  I.9             0.33 25.69   3.20  3.56  0.38  32.70
399          0.07  3411.33     3 .179   0.21  9.e60          0.05  311   1.41  0.00   0.14  12.85           0.0o    1.67   0.24   0.00   0.03  2.13         0.33 27.33   3.41   3.79   0.36  34.76
"            0.07  Is.02   3.U    4.03  0.23  21.07          0.0s  12.06   1.50  0.00  0.34  13.65          0.03    I.9"   0.26   0.00   0.03  2.27         o.13  29.07   3.64   4.03   0.38  36.99
2000         0.07  I5.96   2.00   4.29  0.23  21.41          0.0   2.63   I.6"   0.00  0.14  34.50          0.03    2.12   0.27   0.00  0.03  2.41           0.13  30.91   3.87   4.29   0.38  3.l32
2003         0.07  37.01   2.13   4.?7  0.21 23.81          O.S  13.61   1.70   0.00  0.34  35.40          0.01    2.27   0."   0.00  0.03  2.56            0.33  32.69   4.12   4.5s  0.38 41.63
2002         0.07  36.33   2.27   4.67  0.21 23.39           0.05  14.46   3.63   0.00  0.14  16.36         0.03    2.43  0.31  0.00   0.03  2.76            0.13  55.00   4.59   4.67  0.36  '4.St
2003         0.07  36.26   2.42   5.19  0.21 27.03           0.05  13.37   1.92  0.00  0.14  17.38          0.01    2.60  0.33  0.00   0.03  2.93            0.33  37.25  4.67  5.39  036  47.36
2004         0.07 20.52   2.58   .5S3  0.21 28.77            0.05  16.33   2.04   0.00  0.34  16.46         0.03    2.78   0.35  0.00  0.03  3.15            0.13  39.63   4.97   5.53   0.38  50.38     L
2005         0.33  21.64   2.74   5.90   0.21  30.s9         0.0  17.36   2.17   0.00  0.34  19.60          0.02    2.96   0.38   0.00  0.03   3.35         0.20  42.16   5.29   5.90   0.36  S3.5       d
200          0.33  23.04   2.69   6.23  0.21  32.27          0.08  18.28   2.29   0.00  0.14  20.66         0.02    3.13  0.40  0.00  0.03   3.55           0.20 44.45  5.56  6.23  0.38  56.47
2007         0.07  24.31   3.05  6.36   0.21  34.08          0.05  39.25  2.41  0.00  0.14  21.75           0.01    3.31  0.42   0.00  0.03   3.71          0.33 46.67   s.68   6.56   0.38  3.S1
200          0.07  25.65   3.22  6.95  0.21  33.96           0.03  20.27   2.54   0.00  0.14  22.90         0.03    3.so  0.44   Q.00  0.03   3.96           0.33  49.42   6.20   6.93   0.38  62.62
20           0.07  27.06   3.40   7.34  0.21 37.94           0.05  21.34   2.67  0.00  0.14  24.10          0.03    3.70  0.46  0.00  0.03  4.39             0.33 52.30   6.53   7.34   0.36  66.72
2010         0m   28.54   5.56   7.73   0.21 36.99           0.05  22.46   2.63   0.00  0.14  25.36         0.03    3.92  0.50  0.00   0.03  4.44            0.33 34.92   6.69   7.13  0.38  69.79
2033         0.07  30.32   3.76 8.16  0.23  42.20            0.01  23.61   2.96   0.00  0.34  26.70         0.03 o   .3   0.53  0.00  0.03  4.70             0.13 37.92   7.27  6.16  0.38  73.60
2032         0.07  31.78   3.99   8.62   0.23  44.13         0.01  24.93   3.32  0.00   0.34  26.32         0.01   4.39   0.56   0.00  0.03  4.97           0.33  63.08   7.67  6.62   0.38  77.62
2033         0.07  33.53   4.21  9.10  0.21 46.96            0.01  26.23   3.29   0.00  0.14  29.61         0.03    4.64   0.1.   0.00  0.03   5.25          0.13  64.40   8.09   9.30   0.38  93.84
2034         0.07  35.16   4.44   9.61  0.21 49.S5           0.05  27.62   3.46   0.00  0.14  31.17         0.03    4.91  0.62   0.00  0.03  1.33            0.13  67.91  6.32   9.61   0.36  66.29
2031         0.07  37.34   4.47  10.36   0.21 12.31          0.05  29.10   3.64   0.00  0.34  32.63         0.03    5.39   0.65   0.00  0.03  5.86          0.33  73.63   6.96  10.36   0.38  91.00
TOLeL 103.60                                          65.15                                           34.06                                          162.63
-                          361.68                                         19.72                                            16.98                                           36.92
3M (322) -0.72                                                             39.39                                             5.29                                          69.92
eL Te  Return *              13.32                                          14.22                                            11.22                                          13.42
Sat  te  _ alcultime of M  for the first year  cmeo *22 Ionrtucit7 toot of cepital In   C.                                                                                                     Cet 
t3-
ED
0'



Z;-linen  prefecture, CbenjuAp . Sic tao----a ----   ---------                       ..la  PrefeeturesTaipiugkou.  97-------   --e--------Jiyuaa Prefectures vaujm    hta                          y.- - ------
Coets               -lene~~~~        ~~ft ---t-------   net    Costs      ----------leAfLt i t---------   Not                          Coats       ---------- Xeeft t -----.------   met
------S-----S3.--ceuerat.  Road  cash  ----------TSD----- C                                                    --Gutt   Road   eash  ----------TSD----- C-t--  ort   Road  cash
Year., Cocat. Daiut.DgoTna  Tractor MorualYractor traffic sesety flow.  Coast. Haint.tormal, Tractor NomilTractor traffic afafty"  flow  Coast. slalut.Normal Tractor Uors.airractor traffic eafety tim,
129915.01?                                                           (1.051) 1.299                                                            (1.299) 1.064                                                          (1.064)
1994  1,074                                                          (1.074) 1.613                                                            (1.613) 1.366                                                          (I'36")
3:99              69    131      505    339       i6      34      32    610               12    321.    3S6    344        is     61       44  1.339               71    291      199    301       66,     43      37    "66
1996              69     Ise    Ito    316        £1      31      32    101               12    532    374    362         82     69        44  1.415              II    306    250    311         12      43      31    956
3997              69     167    151    314        96      3?      32    742               12    319    392    360        6s      12       44  1.460               11    321    221    333         76      46      31    963
l996              69     153    120    3931    69         39      32    119               12    601    430    396        69      73       1.4  1.135              15    336    232    348         s0      so      31  1.012
3999              69     564     121    452       93      41      32    a36               72    636    421    458        93      19       441  1,621              15   .354    243    366         81.     52      31  8."S1
2000              69     593     332    433       99      43      32    663               12    666    "4S    438         97     62        441.  .702             11    371   .2S1    361.        87      51      37  1.151
2005              69    203    140    1.31    304         45      32    950               12    102    412    461    103         61       4 1. 5.79               11    390    265    4.04        Si      16      31  1.174
2002              69    213    347    1.16    IS0         1.      32    956               12    136    499    463    109         91       44  5.690               15    4.09    276    423        93      60      371,8229
2003              69    223    331    S03        58       30      32  1.001               12    713    523    301        155     96       4 1. 8.66               15    430    293    41.3    105         63      31  3.299
2004             304    234      162    326    121        52      32  1.021.             108    652    332    333        320    10'       41.  2,014             101    4351    309    1.61    106        67      3?  1.331
2001             301.    246     510    113    126        55      32  5.019              J0e    632    519    339    126    I06           44.  2.138             501    1.13    326    490    552         70      31  1.402
2006              69    216      I11    Sa0    532        37      32  1.167               12    691    606    Sol    132    135           4'.  2.303              71    1.96    342    511.    l38        14      31  1.350
2001              69    271    1a?    609    140          60      32  1.230               12    945    632    611    536        116       44  2.416               71    212    359    539    124          11      31  5.396
z008              69    263      591    640    147        63      32  1.295               12    967    668    646        146    122       441  2.51.3             71    547    373    361        US9      8I      3 15.665
2009              69     300    207    612    1531        61      32  1.363               12  1.036    104    660        153     2"       1.4  2.674.1  11 54    392    191                      131      83      31  1.141
Total  2.091  1.J04                                                             2.912  51.152                                                           2.1.30  5.336
231 -                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~32.03                                                        43.23                                                                  35.41             .,
311(23) *3.004                                                                                                         1.020                                                                  4.554
first Year Recurn -21.0.3                                                                                                 39.03                                                                  30.31
Jlyuan Prefecture, Lluzbu&avg.                             --   ------o----Dullale  Pgefecture, Belzhal- SlaIpint --------S------- WUisa  Pr*fecture.  soahuong. Ilaukou --- .                             -
Coat     -------------neilta--------                        t       Coats----------Bnefitse---------nt                                    Costa----------lenef its----------                          tt
- Y~~~~~-CS-D -               Y- --CS-R ----Cenuerate  Road  cash ----------- S-D ------TCS -1L---- Goeorsta  toad   cash ----------TCS- ---    --TCS-R ----Cenerate  Road  casE.
Year.  Conat. Kaiut.foul Yractor DorualTractor traffic sasfety fine  Coast. Mtaint.11coral Tractor DorealTractor traffic safetyy fiow  Coast. SIalut.11or.al Tractor SloruaJlTractor traffic   saty fico.
5993  1.752                                                          (1.752) 1.152                                                            (1.123) 1.232                                                         (1.232)
1994  1.692                                                          (1.692) 1.357                                                           (3.351) 1.219                                                          (1.2593
5993              68     219     126    350       16     41       1.1    S07             31      36      21    302       39      21       23    1.01             69     813      88I    312      69      33      30    6.99
1996              66    230    536    430         83      66      11    696              11      38      22    351       62      22       23    429              69    519       6s    391       92      34      30    662
1991              66    245      141.    420      6s      90      41    91.3             13      40      21.    332      63      23       23    432              69    121       g0    410       96      36      30    120
5996              66    234    312    412        90       91,    41    996               11      42      23    349       66      24       23    416              69    1335      91    438    504        36      30    160
5999              66    266      560    1.11      95     800     41  1.046               13      1.4     26    366       11      21       23    S00              69    531    500    1.52    109         40      30    199
2000              66    260    16        499    300    103        41  1.150              33      46      21    354       74      21       23    326              69    141.    303    1.11      85       42      30    642
2001              68    294    816    123    304    l10           41  1.160              Ss      49      26    404       16      26       23    551              69    151    350    496    820          41.     3fl   664
2002              of    309      586    330    30        [is      45  1.220              13      13      30    421.      62      29       23    164              69    519       153    323     126      46      10    930
2003              661   324      892    S17      314    128       41  1.281              13      54      32    443      611      31       23    611              69    161    120    330    J31          46      30    971
2004             132    345    20        607     359    127       41  1.303              53      36      33    466       91      32       23    623             104    113    521    111    539          35      30    996
2003             132    337    212    636    526         833      41  1.373              83      39      33    491       96      31.      23    616              104    184    134    605    546         33      30  1.049
2006              6      311    224    668    533    540          41  1.491              53      62      36    311      800      36       23    151              69    193    140    636    111.         16      30  1.540
2001              as    393    236    702    31.0    547          41  1.571              11      63      36    341      104      37       23    133              69    203    51.1    669    565         19      30  1.200
2008              66    454    246    137    11.1    53           45  5.614              13      69      40    149      1l0      39       23    793              69    213    1531      010    868       62      30  1.239
2009              So    4331   261    714    514    562           41  5.739              33      12      42    199k    556       41       23    631              69    221.    162    136    179         63      ZO  1.326
Total  3.444  1,4081                                                           2.462    860                                                            2.451  1.104
BR  s                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23.33                                                      17.32                                                                  21.23
a"I (1233 -                                     3.133                                                                      823                                                                  2.363
first tear Retwur  -                              19.13                                                                   13.93                                                                  22.33
Dlotes, thea calculetico  of ERR for the first year aes.mw  a 123 opportuaity coat of capital Jo China. 
YC6- 0 *total TUC Savbne duo to Sborter Ditatace.                                                                                                                                                                                   -
YC6- 6   Total VOC Savings due to Road taproveaeut.



Table 4.8
- 138  -
CHINA
Henan Provincial Tr ansport Project
Econofic Evaluation Sumary and Sensitivity Analysis
....................................................
. ~ ~    -------Sensitivity.- ----                  -
Costs
Generated Total   Total   COO) 4
Langhth    Bass  trafffc   costs benefits  benefits   Delay   Delay   Toll
(IWm)     case  (-502)  (.102)   C-102)   C-102)   I year  2 years  road
Expressway:
..........
Zhengzhou       lShanglie          41.50     32.0   30.32  30.2Z    30.0       28.3X   27.52   24.2   27.12
Shangjio       - Yanshi            48.00     29.9°    28.0X   28.22    28.02    26.4X   25.8S   ZZ.7X   26.4X
Yanshi         - Luoyang           31-00     21.7X   20.4X   20.22   20.12    18.72   18.92   16.82   17.12
Subtotal- Expresaway              120.50     28.92   27.3X  27.2a    27.12    25.52   25.02   22.12  24.6X
......     ....  . ... ....  .... . . ....    ....  . . ....   .... .   ... .. ............  ... ..
Provineial Roods:
,................
1 Sanmenxls      - Songcun:
Sarnmenxia     - Lingbao           51.34     18.62    18.02   17.32    17.12    15.92   16.82   15.2X
Jiaccun        - Guanshangoun     35.50      19.72    18.8X   16.32    18.12    16.72   17.82   12.72
Dongshuaufqiao - Songcun            7.87     16.92    16.02   15.52    15.42    14.12   14.72   12.92
Subtotal           94.91      18.92    18.12   17.5s    17.3X    16.02   17.02   14.12
. _ ......  ....    ...... ....      .....  ....    ...... ...---- .. ... .. .....
2 Luoyang- Yellow River Srfige       19.50     21.82    21.02   20.5X    20.32    19.02   19.22   17.12
3  Nl xi an      -  ingyfng          31.60     17.02    16.42   15.8X    15.7X    14.5X   15.32   13.82
4 loaf           - Wenxian           25.69     27.92    27.02  26.12    25.92    24.22   23.92   21.0X       --
5 Sanjiaokou     a Xiaoping           6.10    22.32    21.42   20.82    20.72    19.32   19.8X   17.82
Subtotal- Provineial Roads        179.80     20.32    19.62   18.92    18.82    17.52   18.12   16.22
=...... .  .. ....  ....      .      . ....   ---- . . ----    ........ ..... ... ........
Aural Roads:
........... 
Xinan Prefecture:
I Chengguan      - Sicufaao          18.20     32.02   31.32   29.32    29.02    26.52   25.92   21.82
2 Taipingkou       Boeiy*            19.00     43.2X    42.42  39.9X    39.52    36.4X   33.9X   28.12       --
Jiyuan Prefecture:
3 wangwu         - Xiye              18.60     35.4X    34.9Z  32.52    32.2X    29.5X   28.42   23.7%
4 Liuzhuaug      -  ihetou           23.20     25.32    24.42   23.1X    22.92    20.82   20.92   17.7X
Nuixisn Prefecture:
5 Seizhaf        - oaing             14.40     17.SX    17.12   15.72    15.52    13.72   14.6X   12.2X
6 Gaozhuang      - Hankou            18.1U     27.22    26.62   24.82    24.52    22.3%   22.32   18.82
Subtotal- Rural Roads             111.50     30.5X    29.82   27.92    27.72    25.3X   25.62   21.62      --
......     ....    ....   ....       ....     ....    ....    ....
Total                            411.80      26.52    25.1X   24.9X    24.72    23.2X   23.5S   21.1X
......     ....    ....      .        ... .... ....    ...     ....  
Total (including initial RIP)/a
/a The five initial road subprojects under RIPts First Package have an average
ERR of 42.6%.



- 139-                                         CHART 1
CHINA
5ENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Oraanlzation of 8enan Prpvince CoamunLcation Department
IHenan Pravtnclal
omaunication
Departmenet
...         .....................    ........................
Provaincial Headou.rtero          Provincial Aaencia!                                          Local Axenciesi
AAdminstration               High-Grade Highw y                                             Municipal
Office               _      Construction                                                 (Prafecture)
Authority      ICoamunication
2                                                                                                   Bureau
_   PlannIng               2
Division                       Highway _________________|_                                Munict- )
3,                                      Bureau        J                                         (Prez- .ure)
_    Pluance                                                                                    Hi AWay     I
4L     :Dpg4v:ls:ion ~  l     Transport                                                   D1v olon
4                             _ Planning, Survey
Science  nd o4  & Design Institute                          No. I Construction                County
Technology;                                                      Division                     Highway
Division               I4I Division
Highway
5                             -      Engineering                 gNo  2 Construction
Eduation                     uConstruction                      Division                 fMaintenance
D iviOn                       BureauTo
6~~~~~~~~ .5
6                             S                                   o3 Construction
Labor and Payroll |iTransportation                                 Divlsion
Divisionucec  Rsac
IvJlon   l  _   Institute
7
Transportation            6
'   Divlsion'                       Transport
}   Dlvlalon   l   _-        Vocational 
School
Personnel    7~~~~Lo
Vocational
Bureau
9
High-Grade Highray
--d    9uperv±asion
Division of
Zhengzhou
Yellow River
Highway Bridge
Anstration
11
Material Storage
&  Warehouses
12
Local Railvay
Company
13
Zhonyn Civil 
AlviatinCompany
Weta Sod  lne  Direct r.lahtIc
Dotted Linu#  tot ,.Iltimblp
...........



CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Henan Provincial HiRh-Grade Highway Construction Authority (HCHCA)
| Dput  Drector   ll Deputy Directoran                                           l
| at CiefEngineer ||A:dmDinstration Office Head 
Chi-of Engineer Office                                    ~Deputy Administration Office
(Deputy Chief Engineers)
Technology      Planning       Eiqancial      Equipment      Coordination         Propaganda &         Administration       Liaison
Section        Section                        Section         Section          Safeguard Section         Section           Office
l                    l~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ortanization of Henan Highway Institute
Vice-President for                           Vice-President for
Rea-rService                          [Eduwcational/Adminlet rat ion
on of  C gory  Section of   Motor        ofo     io   St       Se            ection of  Educational  tTraatoy    ecurlCollege |
General     Office    Educational Transpo rt   ec                        a    t   Pupila       Research     Section   Attached  Sectlon   Office
Aff-lrs            Atdminli.-    Corps                   Highway               Management   Offce                  tolte
It
E-



CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Henan Highway Vocational School
President 
Vice-President   ||Vice-Presidentll
for General Affals                          for Educational Administration]
r          Section of   Factory      Trnn                  Section      Practice   Sectio  o                         ecut    Office of
Section    General      Attached    Section    Library   of Pupil       Section    Educationl   Office   of         Section    Fundamental
Affairs      tollege            _              Mana8ement               Atdramtlnloln ~        Flnance              Construction
C0



CHINA
HENAN HICHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Henan Highway Scientific Research Institute
Chief Manager,
Chief Engineers
Scientific Research and Production System                                                  Management System
Highway    Highvay    Macbinery   Office of    Motor       Labora-   Section of    Computer              Office    Office of       Office of
Research   Bridge     Research    motor         Testing   tory       Science and      Room      Office    of       Data, Infor-   Science
Office     Research   Office       Transport    Station              Technology                          Finance   mation and      and
Office                   Economy                          Development                                   Archives       Technology
L-



- 144 -                              CHART 6
CHINA
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Henan Highwav Design Institute (HPDI)
|President and Chief Engineer 
Production System |                         Administrative System|
Surveying and Designing Team I                   Head Office
Surveying and Designing Team II          E      Finance Section
Surveying and Designing       |         Information and Archives
Team of Planning                             Section
Engineering Geological                 Chief Engineer's Office
Prospecting Team
Planning and Managing
Civil Engineering Designing                      Sectlon
Section
S ntific Research Laboratory
Computer Room



RUSSIA
RUSSIA
KAZAKHSTAN
ULAANMAATAR                                                         <
7ZBEKISTAN             AUAA                                                                                               MONGOLIAI-                                                                                 i
ATA
FRUNZfTE                                   N0                                                                                                                                                                   ,1                                                           S
KYRGHYZSTAN                                              Oh                                                                                                                                                                                                       JAPA<
wrw                                                       OTu/pon                       ~            ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~<                ( &-yuar Q~~~OT                                             JAPAN
TADJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EM. REP
OF KOREA
*  AToo Yje';(             eogs&15 UN vila 514oREP OF
-V /:A/ MSU,   fd;  Toannf3  ". (Shsa.hoasou ._'                    )                          KOREA
Thns mod hs been psep=sed by                                                                                                            , 
The Woldh nbs sin6o-l slyd                                                                      .f                                         2                                                        /
'as hooonseof Thds. sod                                                                                                                                                   ,.aV
's fo rshe stoma) uss of The WC/add                                                                                                                       B o nTw;;.9obmnos  I K
bo-k OoG-  The dnossnonons                                                                                                                                                   ®Z--no -a,' *
d od    bnd-nsshonon
fIha,nao donsf.mply.nnshsrosn                                                                                             Uoo r~,s f?mI''.:                                                         JA:''5
of The Wcrdd Snob G-rP onssy
judgheenonlhsleaslsnTssosn-                                                                                                                           STONSvNI;                                      '
ony h rris oY  on ay e ndossssnnt                                                                                          K >            '-
sor oo0fsnoeof so;l,boundvnes.                 _                                      .                              /                                         -'              .Ki    'n  (<fnino -
- - -/e 3                                                                                           BR 1, .a _
NEPAL                         s~                                           I             51(hoA          n                                                               <5   01/
CHINA                                                         '.
MAJOR HIGHWAY DEVELOPIAENT PROGRAM                                                                                       /    / . .UNs :_ /I'                                                     F
LAWOR HIGHWAYS:                                                                                      -                                              ,               YU'N
COMPLETED                                                                                         K                   ,
UN_ `R CONSTRUCION / bTH FIVE YEAR PLAN (I1491-19951                                                          0        T
9TH FIVE 'EAR PLAN (I 996-2000)                                                 YUtsN,A a, /' K                      CU/     !
PLANNED BEYOND 2D70                                               '4  N.                                                                 Hansdt1        Bans    p Wa
g                            f3 Nmwng    g   EDthOn o         ~~~~~HONG KONG, U.K._
WORLD bANK IVESTMENT IN THE MAJOR ROAD NEETWORK            bANK FUNDED PORT PROJECTS          Z                                                             .HMocNG, POr .
ONGOINGWORLD BANK PROJECTS                        A     PROVNCECAPITALS                                                   VIET NAM                                                                            PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED WORLD BANK PROJECTS                     f      NATIONAL CAPITALS O
-------  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                so             LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                 ot7maroa
NTTENATIONAL BOUNDARIES           THAILAND          OEM. REP                                ,,.,                                       -



T. ftiji, -    ho .  'HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
-96>  . l i;L -  Any>'  >,/w'QV>?  /            $>P«g*/                                 TRANSPORT SYSTEM
fr S-H A  N  X I   SheneXShenjEcLov tH bjo   R\° y/O/NnibvongjR   z '   ,    °/ \  PROPOSED PROJECT.
S H A   N  X If~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ZHENGZHIOU WOLUYANG EXPRESSWAY
f tNd5PanS p*      ,w   z             fah   4Fo  ^         %                           -NORTHWEST HENAN PROVINCIAL ROADS
-NORTHWEST HENAN RURAL ROADS
- g HrnsLou  fi    >07gnXion    r f   Q     EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
WITH GOVERNMENT PINANCING
4                                            M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAIN SIR 5SYEAR PLAN ROADS
HX0SHA NDONG                N             --NATIONAL ROADS                RIVERS
PROVINCIAL ROADS          R DIVER PORTS
RURAL ROADS          --PROVINCE
N  --RAILROADS                    BOUNDARIES
TUXCYXCE                                                       -   b         1    AIRPORTS              -     INTERNATIONAL
'ZHOU                                                                                                              8 A  N  H  U I  EU
T. HXi-E E I                                       , --.'.aO:
Ni ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~           
N                                                                                                                                                                                  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y.c.JI           
SHAANXI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMNa> 
_lj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X Xi..- -XCX                                                                                                                                                    x
U 2,5   5X    75   1RS 
(                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~         ~          ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETER  A   XXX
H UB  El                                                                                              ,,            X pX,p.,Xb .X,8 CI  IIA(,A                          - 
/'           VjXiRXCI7   (



_.-^  -_.._..2$   0          -,,-  't7         .      '   ,'74,Jiaozuo
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ch n_y
14S<ke--_/  _  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
t u o    y t           X                         /    | \                       CH I NA          <    \yong0
XJf+/  <  \    \                   /      rsK   X           HE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NyANg  HIGWA  PRJC
v    /    \   <            I          \      /        T     8        ZHENGZHOU - LOYANG EXPREonWA
i   > 1 <   1\>   FOhCOUA  >>  4                                             sVITHGOVERNMENTF0NANCIN Kai n
i   /  j    Xr    ANHUI   Xn   ,>,st <~a          mOEENGZHOU;OtNEBONARE
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~EA  HIU8EI                                PR ECT[t
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HNZO - LUYN EXPRESSWAYE V o .hCha     



