Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3531-CHA
(Henan Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HENAN PROVINCE
Dated December 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3531-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HENAN PROVINCE (Henan).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty million 
dollars ($120,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that Henan agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Henan, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"HAB" means the Highway Administration Bureau, an agency of Henan, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"HGHCA" means the High-Grade Highway Construction Authority, an agency of 
Henan, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(c)
"HPCD" means the Henan Provincial Communication Department, a department 
of Henan, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(d)
"HSRI" means the Highway Scientific Research Institute, an agency of 
Henan, and includes any successor or successors thereto; and
(e)
"MOC" means the Ministry of Communication of the Borrower and includes 
any successor or successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Henan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Henan shall otherwise agree, Henan shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan onlent to Henan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Henan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Henan shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Henan shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Henan of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Henan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Henan responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Henan shall:
 
Page  3
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Henan 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify Henan thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Henan:
Henan People's Government
No. 10 Wei-er Road
Zhengzhou 450003
Henan Province
People's Republic of China
Page  4
Telex:
46034 HFEA CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Henan, may be 
taken or executed by Governor
or Vice Governor of Henan or such other person or persons as Governor or Vice Governor 
of Henan shall designate in writing, and Henan shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
HENAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in People's Republic of China may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  5
1.
(a)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, items or groups of items 
of goods, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
(b)
Items or groups of items of goods, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Civil works for the 21.3 kilometer section of the Highway to the east of Luoyang 
under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $12,700,000, 
may be procured under one contract awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
(a)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, civil works, under Parts 
A.1 (b) and B.1 of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(b)
Civil works, under Parts A.1 (b) and B.1 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $33,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price bids obtained from at least three contractors eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and civil works each estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
Page  6
In order to assist Henan in carrying out the Project, Henan shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Henan shall, under the general supervision and guidance of MOC, carry out the 
Project as follows:
(a)
Parts A and C.1 (a) of the Project shall be carried out through HGHCA.
 
(b)
Parts B and C.1 (b) of the Project shall be carried out through HAB.
 
(c)
Part C.2 and C.4 of the Project shall be carried out through HPCD.
 
(d)
Part C.3 of the Project shall be carried out through HSRI.
 
2.
Henan shall (a) by December 31, 1994, undertake and complete a study on trucking 
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, (b) by March 31, 1993, 
establish a review panel comprising representatives of the Bank, Borrower and Henan 
for the purpose of reviewing the results and recommendations of the trucking study, 
(c) upon completion of the trucking study, to submit the same to the said review panel 
for its comments, and (d) take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of 
the trucking study taking into account the comments, if any, made by the said review 
panel.
3.
Henan declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to 
this end, shall carry out the environmental protection measures stipulated in the 
Environmental Action Plan, prepared by Henan in respect of Part A of the Project, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Henan declares its commitment to the Bank's policy on resettlement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the land acquisition and resettlement activities pursuant to the 
Resettlement Action Plan, prepared by Henan in respect of Part A of the Project, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Henan shall select Sub-projects in accordance with criteria and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall, inter alia, (a) submit, for the Bank's approval, 
each Sub-project proposal including an environmental action plan and a resettlement 
action plan therefor, and (b) ensure that during the execution of each Sub-project 
both the environmental action plan and resettlement action plan therefor are carried 
out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
Henan shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for review, by October 31, 1995, 
recommendations on appropriate toll levels for the Highway, taking into consideration 
the experience with operation of other toll highways in China.
7.
Henan shall (a) by April 30, 1993, establish resettlement monitoring teams 
including qualified social scientists, acceptable to the Bank, to monitor the 
effectiveness and socio-economic impact of resettlement under the Project, and (b) by 
December 15, 1993, 1994 and 1995, submit to the Bank an annual monitoring report in 
respect thereof.
8.
Henan shall carry out the training under Part C.2 of the Project in accordance 
with programs agreed by the Bank.
