Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13825
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1453-YAR)
DECEMBER 28, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Operations II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS1'
Name of Currency (abbreviation) = Yemeni Rial (YRI)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Report (February 1984)                  US$1.00 = YRIs 4.5
Completion Date (December 1992)                   US$1.00 = YRls 12.1
Official exchange rates. At project completion, the market rate was US$1.00 = YRIs 30.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFESD      Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
ARA        Agricultural Research Authority
CACB       Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CHADP    Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
DAIC       Dhamar Agricultural Improvement Center
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FYP        Five Year Plan
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCCD       Local Council for Cooperative Development
LDA        Local Development Association
MAWR       Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources'
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NORADP  Northern Region Agricultural Development Project
ODA        Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SDR        Special Drawing Right
SMS        Subject Matter Specialist
SURDP    Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
T&V        Training and Visit
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Emergency Fund
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
VEA        Village Extension Agent
VEC        Village Extension Centre
YAR        Republic of Yemen
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Also called Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries during part of
the project period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                                 December 28 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on the Republic of Yemen
Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1453-YAR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Republic of Yemen -Central Highlands
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1453-YAR). Parts I and III were prepared by the Middle
East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This project was the twelfth IDA project in support of agricultural development in the former
Yemen Arab Republic. The project was designed to promote increased agricultural production and
improved quality of rural life through development of the extension service, provision of rural water
supply, studies covering land, water and irrigation resources in the project area, and administrative
support.  The project was co-financed by IFAD  and the British Overseas Development
Administration (ODA).
The appraisal failed to adapt previously successful farm models developed for high
rainfall/irrigated areas, to the lower and more variable rainfall conditions of the Central Highlands.
Project design allocated a significant proportion of resources to rainfed farming, although economic
analysis identified the areas of high return to be irrigated horticulture and low return to be rainfed
cereal production. Certain issues identified at preparation, such as constraints on input supply and
a previously proven participatory approach to village water supply development, were also not
followed-up.
During implementation, the project suffered from staff recruitment delays, budgetary
problems, and poor project management. At completion, the project had constructed the majority
of its extension centers; and trained extension staff, including a women's extension service not
foreseen at appraisal; but lack of counterpart recurrent funds has caused a rapid decline in extension
activity. There was some introduction of improved technology for irrigated horticultural and cereal
crop production, a successful livestock development program, and completion of a land and water
resources study.  The rural water supply component failed, essentially due to the project
management's decision not to follow a proven strategy based on community participation.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and sustainability as unlikely. Institutional
development is rated as negligible.
The quality of the PCR is satisfactory although its re-estimated rate of return estimate is not
meaningful.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wfthout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1453-YAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    ............................................................
EVALUATION   SUMMARY    ..............................................                                                                         iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  ....................                                                                             1
Project Identity   ...................................................                                                               1
Background ......................................................                                                                    1
Project Objectives and  Description   ....................................                                                           2
Project Design  and  Organization   ......................................                                                          3
Project Implementation   .............................................                                                              5
Project Results   ...................................................                                                               9
Project Sustainability  ...............................................                                                            11
IDA  Performance   .................................................                                                               12
Borrower's Performance   ............................................                                                              13
Project Relationships  ...............................................                                                             14
Consulting  Services  ................................................                                                             14
Project Documentation   .............................................                                                              14
Lessons Learned   ..................................................                                                               15
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                      ........  17
PART III - SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA  ................................    26
Related  IDA  Credits  ...............................................                                                             26
Project Timetable   .................................................                                                              26
Credit Disbursements   ..............................................                                                              26
Project Costs and  Financing  ..........................................                                                           27
A.  Project Costs  .............................................                                                         27
B.  Project Financing  ..........................................                                                        27
Project Implementation   .............................................                                                             28
Project Results   ...................................................                                                              29
A.  Direct Benefits   ...........................................                                                        29
B.  Economic Impact ..........................................                                                           29
C.  Studies   .................................................                                                          29
Status of Covenants  ................................................                                                              29
Use of Bank Resources                       ......................                     .......................                     30
A.  Staff Weeks ..............................................                                                           30
B.  Mission  Data  .............................................                                                         30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 1 - Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands
Project  ...........................                            ............................                          31
A. INTRODUCTION   . ..................................................                                                31
B. PROJECT COSTS ....................................................                                                 31
Financial Costs  . ..................................................                                       31
Cost Recovery  ....................................................                                         32
Economic Costs . ..................................................                                         33
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS . ..............................................  33
Nature of Benefits .          ................................................                              33
Estimation of Benefits . ..............................................   34
D. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS . ..............................................  35
Results  .......................................................                                            35
Discussion  .......................................................                                         36
Conclusions ......................................................                                          37
TABLES
1.       Estimate of Total Project Expenditure (1985-1992)  ........................                                  38
1.1      Summary of Government Expenditure (1985-1992)  ........................                                      39
1.2  IDA Disbursements .................................................   40
1.3      IFAD  Disbursements .              ..............................................                            41
1.4      ODA  and AFESD  Estimated Disbursement ..............................                                        42
2.  Farm Model Characteristics .43
3.       Calculation of Farm  Distributions According to Project
Demonstrations .44
4. Farm Distributions .45
5.  Household Financial Benefits .46
6.  Project Financial Prices .47
7.  Project Economic Prices .49
8.    Estimation of Economic Prices for Grain and Fertilizer .51
9.   Calculation of Economic Cost of Project .52
10  Net Economic Benefit by SAR Models .54
11. Economic Analysis .55
12.  Land Use in Project Governorates, 1990 .57
13.   Crop Productivity in Project Governorates (1988-92) .58
Appendix 1 - Comments on SAR  Economic Analysis ............                             .................            59
Working Paper 1 - CHADP Farm Models



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1453-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Central Highlands Agricultural
Development Project (CHADP). The project was financed by IDA Credit 1453-YAR for SDR7.8
million equivalent which was approved on March 27, 1984. The IDA credit closed on
December 31, 1992 after being extended for three years. The undisbursed balance of SDR1.797
million equivalent (23% of the Credit amount) was cancelled. The actual total cost of the project
arnounted to US$29.572 million, for which IDA provided the equivalent of US$7.70 million, the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) US$3.61 million, the British Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) US$3.94 million and Government the remaining US$14.302
million in local currency.
A draft of Parts I and III of this PCR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) mission 3 which visited the Republic of Yemen in September 1993 at the
request of the Agricultural Operations Division, Country Department II of the Middle East and
North Africa Region of the World Bank. Part II has been written by the Borrower. The PCR
is based inter alia on information gathered in Yemen and on discussions with CHADP
management and staff and farmers in the project area, in addition to information and data
gathered from the FAO/CP Project Preparation Report, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower and internal IDA correspondence.






- iii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CENTRAL H1GHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1453-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The attached Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews an agricultural development project
that contained design faults and suffered problems during implementation. At completion, the
prospects for sustainability of the institutional services set up under the project are poor.
Nonetheless, the project is thought to have generated an acceptable rate of return (17.5%), largely
because one part of the technology tran.sferred has been even more successful than forecast at
appraisal.
I     The Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (CHADP), the twelfth IDA project
in support of agricultural development in the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), was part of a
systematic approach to support Government's development objectives by promoting increased
production in relatively high potential areas, developing improved technology, providing supporting
finance for its application and institution building within the major support services.
11.    The CHADP was modelled on earlier successful interventions in the Tihama and more
particularly, the Southern Uplands,' covering spate irrigated and high rainfall production systems
respectively, in low to mid-altitude zones, but was the first IDA-financed rural development project
in the YAR not to provide a fully integrated package of services to the target beneficiaries. The
objective of the project was to improvefarm income through production and productivity increases,
impacting on 8,325 farm families and an area of 16,430 ha by the ninth year from project
inception. The project also aimed to help improve the quality of life of the rural population by
providing potable water. The project was implemented in five districts each of Sana'a and Dhamar
governorates in a region collectively known as the Central Highlands.
Ill.   To attain its objectives, the project comprised the following components. (1) extension
development through the establishment offour block centers and 32 village extension centers, training
extension agents both locally and overseas; trainingfarmers; providing transportation andfinancing
34 person-years of international technical assistance; (2) water supply schemes to be constructed in
15 locations to supply an estimated 45,000 rural people; (3) studies covering land, water and
irrigation resources in the project area and preparation of a possible second phase project; and
(4) project administration covering provision of office equipment, transportation, internationally
recruited consultants, and recurrent staff and operating expenses.
1     Tihama Development Projects and Southern UpLands Rural Development Project (SURDP).



- iv -
IV     Project cost was estimated at US$20 million. Financing was by an International Development
Association (IDA) credit of SDR 7.8 million (US$8 million) with co-financingfrom the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) of SDR 3.9 million (US$4 million) and the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom of US$1 million. Government contribution
was estimated at US$5.5 million with a further US$1.5 million provided through the Local
Development Associations (LDAs). The Credit Agreement was signed on 8 June 1984 and the Credit
became effective on I May 1985. The 31 December 1989 closure date was extended three times with
the credit closing on 31 December 1992.
V.    SDR6.003 million was disbursedfrom the IDA credit, leaving an undisbursed balance of
SDRI. 797 million. The IFAD credit closed with disbursement totalling SDR2.791 million, leaving
SDRI. 109 million unutilized. ODA commitments were approximately US$3.94 million, well in excess
of the US$1 million estimate at appraisal. Government contribution at completion totalled YR.153.2
million (US$14.30 million2) giving a total project cost of US$29.57 million equivalent as compared
to the projected cost of US$20 million at appraisal.
VI.    Though logically set within the national agricultural development framework, it must be
concluded, with the benefit of hindsight, that the project had some design problems. The project was
designed to provide services to mixed farming systems throughout the project area. However, the
actual outcome was more of a focus on irrigatedfarming, particularly horticulture and cereals, due
to lack of technology packages for rainfed farming. The strategy to focus a significant proportion
of project resources on rainfedfarming was based on an overly optimistic assessment of technology
transfer opportunities and made in the absence of any detailed farming systems analysis. The
economic analysis, though identifying areas of high economic return (irrigated horticulture) and low
economic return (cereals, especially rainfed), did not recognize the relevance of these differences to
the project's strategy. The diversity of farm production activities in the project area, the lack of
adequately trained Extension Agents and Subject Matter Specialists and of proven technology, and
the limited capacity for technology development in the research system should have led to a closer
evaluation of the appropriateness of the proposed modifed Training and Visit (T& V) extension
methodology.   The SAR also did not address the critical input supply constraint identified at
preparation and in the Issues Paper. Furthermore, the CHADP village water supply program did not
follow the preparation report recommendation to adopt a more participatory approach, although there
was already some in-country experience of this.
VII.   Program start-up was slow, due primarily to delays in recruiting national and international
staff; the latter in part due to slow government clearance of nominees. The adaptive research,
technology demonstration, staff training andfarmer contact programs all expanded rapidly between
1986 and 1988 resulting in significant, though largely unquantifed, farmer investment in incremental
inputs for irrigated cereal and horticulture production. However, constraints emerged as early as
1986 due to inadequate input supply, local staff shortages and the failure to identify viable rainfed
farming technologies. These constraints were amplified in mid-1987 by shortfalls in the project
recurrent budget. The budgetary problem persistedfor the life of the project, due more to deficiencies
2      Local costs converted at official rates. This amount includes expenditure associated with a parallel
AFESD project (cost US$10.5 million equivalent) which cannot be separately analyzed in project
accounts.



-v -
in project-level resource allocation and financial management than government budget allocation.
Project organization during implementation was quite different from that described in the SAR and
the project never achieved the intended integration with MAWR governorate programs. Project
management was generally poor, and there was a crisis when the Director General was assassinated
VIII.  The construction and equipment procurement programs fell well behind schedule with
construction quality sometimes inadequate. At completion, about 90% of the extension center
construction program was completed, the shortfall being mainly associated with utility connections.
Completion of village water supply schemes variedfrom 50% to 90%, with all work stopped before
project completion due to a cost dispute between the contractor and government. Limited community
or extension service participation in village water supply development contributed to this failure. The
Land and Water Resources and Irrigation Development Study commenced in April 1988 and was
completed in July 1991.
IX    Project results include: (i) the establishment of an extension network including 29 completed
and 3 partially completed village extension centers together with 4 block centers and 12 staff houses;
(ii) the appointment and training of a cadre of dedicated extension staff; (iii) the successful promotion
of improved technology for irrigated coffee, apple, peach, potato and tomato production, (iv) the
improvement of irrigated wheat and maize production; (v) the successfulpromotion of the correct use
of agricultural chemicals, especially pesticides and fungicides; (vi) the successful livestock
development program; (vii) the completion of the Land and Water Resources and Irrigation
Development Study, and (viii) the partial completion of 15 village water supply schemes.
X     IDA supervision was regular and generally satisfactory. Most project deficiencies were
identified, though not always resolved, in a timely manner. Earlier attention to CHADP management
could have assisted in resolving the chronic shortfalls in project financing while earlier technical
evaluation of the village water supply program could have identified weaknesses and ways to improve
program implementation. Supervision supportfor project initiatives in livestock extension and on-farm
technology testing and demonstration was well placed. While the first two credit extensions were
justified on the basis of on-going work programs and reasonable expectation of Government response
to outstanding issues, the third and final extension was based on a change in project management.
XI.   The Borrower was generally supportive of the project. However, project covenants, although
largely complied with, were often implemented well behind schedule and, while budget allocation was
adequate, shortfalls in financial disbursementfor project activities were common. Cumbersome public
procurement procedures were a constraint. Restrictive import policies for fertilizers, chemicals and
phosphate supplements impacted negatively on project effectiveness. The Government's failure to
address project management problems and lack of financial control contributed to project
unsustainability.
XII.   The monitoring and evaluation section of the project management unit did not conduct surveys
or otherwise assemble data which permit reliable and confident estimation of project impact.
Nevertheless, the project did have some positive impacts through the introduction of improved
technology for some irrigated and rainfed crops. Four farm models have been developed covering
irrigated horticulture and cereal crop production to reflect situations in which it is believed the
project has had an impact despite the design and organizational problems mentioned. On this basis,



- vi -
the project's ERR is estimated at 17.5% compared to 27% at appraisal. Given the lack of quality
in the underlying data, this is not a confident estimate but it is unlikely that the actual ERR would
be much lower than 13%. Better focusing of project resources on high benefit activities could have
produced similar benefits at lower cost. The rural water supply component failed, essentially due to
the project management's decision not to follow a proven strategy based on community participation.
Despite its acceptable ERR the project extension program is not sustainable in its present form due
to financial, organizational and management constraints and therefore the overall assessment has to
be that the project was not satisfactory.
XIII.  Lessons learnedfrom project design and implementation include. the needfor key indicators
and assumptions to be detailed at appraisal; the need for a realistic implementation timeframe; the
need to avoid social or political interference in project design, the necessity of available, proven
technology where substantial investment is made in extension services; the importance of project
integration with mainline agricultural institutions, the need to set projects in the context of proper
macro and micro economic policies, the need to ensure proper trainingfor project management; and
the importance of community participation in project implementation and of project accountability
to recipient communities. Recommendations are made on to how to address these issues.



- 1 -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1453-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Credit No.               1453-YAR
RVP Unit                MENA Region
Country                 Republic of Yemen
Sector            :     Agriculture
Sub-sector              Area Development
2. Background
2.1               Government's stated agricultural development objectives in the Second and Third
Five Year Plans (FYP) which covered the project period were to raise agriculture's share of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) with a view to achieve food self-sufficiency and security, to develop
farmers' skills and improve rural incomes, to optimize resource utilization and to assure supplies of
raw materials for agro-industry. Strategies to achieve this objective concentrated on establishing a
broad geographical spread of rural development projects; developing the agricultural skill base and
a supporting institutional framework (research, extension, marketing, credit,); strategic government
investment in agricultural infrastructure, particularly irrigation; plant and animal genetic
improvement; and supporting input supply and credit.
2.2               The Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (CHADP) was the
twelfth IDA agricultural project approved over a ten-year period, commencing with Tihama I in
1973, to support agricultural development in the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). These
projects, which covered rural development (6), agricultural research (1), livestock development (1),
agricultural credit (1) grain storage and processing (1), and fisheries development (1) represented



- 2 -
a systematic approach to supporting Government's development objectives by promoting increased
production in relatively high potential areas, developing improved technology, providing supporting
finance for its application and institution building within the major support services. At the time of
CHADP preparation, all these projects were making progress, usually after having experienced start-
up difficulties of varying degrees of severity covering financial, managerial and staffing problems.
2.3                The CHADP was modelled on earlier successful interventions in the Tihama and
more particularly, the Southern Uplands,' covering spate irrigated and high rainfall production
systems respectively, in low  to mid-altitude zones.   These projects established  integrated
research/extension, input supply and credit networks that were successful in developing and
introducing new technology and training a cadre of extension workers. They also benefited from
working with relatively cohesive but open societal groups within which most farmers were
smallholders and, in the Southern Uplands, owner-operators. These earlier interventions were
located in high rainfall or irrigated areas where there were substantial opportunities for agricultural
intensification. Government plans and policies, including concessionary credit administered by the
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB), a fixed exchange rate, relatively unrestricted
imports and a FYP that was appropriately focused and financed, were generally supportive of these
projects.
3. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3. 1               The objectives of the project were to: (i) improve farm  income through
production and productivity increases, impacting on 8,325 farm families and an area of 16,430 ha
by the ninth year from.project inception; and (ii) help improve the quality of life of the rural
population by providing potable water.
Project Description
3.2                Project area. The project was implemented in five districts each of Sana'a and
Dhamar governorates in a region collectively known as the Central Highlands. The project area
included an upland plateau generally above 2,000 m in elevation, an intermediate region of deeply
divided and relatively inaccessible escarpments ranging in elevation from 1,300 to 2,000 m and the
floors of the westward draining intermediate zone valleys which decrease in altitude from 1,300 to
1,000 m.  The areas of agricultural potential are located in the terraced rainfed areas of the
escarpment receiving more than 450 mm annual rainfall and the irrigated areas found in all three
zones.
3.3                Project components. The project comprised the following components:
(a)    extension development through the establishment of four block centers
with 20 associated staff houses and 32 village extension centers-cum-
living quarters for extension agents; training extension agents both
Tihama Development Projects and Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP).



-3
locally and overseas (about 20 person years); training farmers; providing
transportation (12 pickups, 20 four-wheel drive vehicles and 14
motorcycles) and financing 34 person-years of internationally recruited
technical assistance to backstop the extension agents;
(b)    village water supply schemes to be constructed in 15 locations to
supply an estimated 45,000 rural people;
(c)   studies covering land, water and irrigation resources in the project area
and preparation of a possible second phase project; and
(d)    project administration  covering provision of office equipment,
transportation (seven pickups), internationally recruited consultants
(financial control, monitoring and evaluation, and civil and water
engineering), and recurrent staff and operating expenses.
3.4               Project cost was estimated at US$20 million to be financed by an International
Development Association (IDA) credit of SDR 7.8 million (equivalent to US$8 million) with co-
financing from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) of US$4 million and the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom equivalent to US$1 million.
Government contribution was estimated at the equivalent of US$5.5 million with a further US$1.5
million equivalent through the Local Development Associations (LDAs)2. A parallel Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFESD) project loan of US$10.5 million equivalent financed
irrigation development, orchard establishment, two new rural roads, and construction and equipping
of a branch office of CACB in Dhamar.
4. Project Design and Organization
Project Design
4.1                The project was the first IDA-financed rural development project in the YAR
not to provide a fully integrated package of services to the target beneficiaries. This was in line with
IDA-supported Government policies to develop a national agricultural credit and input supply
capability, funded by a separate project, and was a logical step in the process of agricultural
modernization that commenced in the early 1970s. However, strategies and programs adopted under
CHADP to realize this new policy direction were deficient.
4.2               The strategy, to focus a significant proportion of project resources on rainfed
farming, was based on an assumption of technology transfer opportunities made without detailed
farming systems analysis, and on an unperceptive economic analysis. The SAR, and to a lesser
degree the project preparation report, focused more on the similarities of Central Highlands
agriculture with that of the Southern Uplands rather than the differences. The expectation that
technologies, particularly cereal crop variety and fertilization practices, could be transferred between
these agro-ecological zones was unrealistic given the lower and more variable rainfall in the Central
Highlands together with the risk of spring hail and end-of-season frost. The unreliability of the
isohyet map used exacerbated this problem in that it overestimated the extent of the high rainfall area
2      Later renamed Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD).



_4-
of the project.3
4.3                 The SAR economic analysis contributed to the project's weak technological
approach. Though identifying areas of high economic return (horticulture) and low economic return
(cereals, especially rainfed), the relevance of these differences to the project's strategy was not
recognized. Specifically, disaggregation of the SAR economic benefits suggests that Model 1 -
covering 4,000 rainfed farms, all of which were to be provided with support services - yields a net
economic benefit of only YRls0.6 million, out of total net benefits of YRls33.5 million (8,325
farms). Most of the benefits were forecast to come from incremental horticultural production in the
other five models. No argument was advanced for the chosen resource allocation on distributional
grounds.  Furthermore, the importance of smallholder livestock production to the agricultural
economy (20-25%) and to household cash income (13-40% in PCR models of irrigated/high rainfall
farms4and over 50% in dryland farming systems5) was ignored in the economic analysis and under-
estimated in project design, both in its relative importance to household income and in its potential
to contribute to the financing of improved agricultural practices. Other observations on the economic
analysis which have affected project design are detailed in Annex 1.
4.4                 The diversity of farm  production activities in the project area, the lack of
adequately trained Extension Agents and Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and of proven technology
and the limited capacity for technology development in the research system should have led to a
closer evaluation of the appropriateness of the adopted Training and Visit (T&V) extension
methodology. The relative financial and economic importance of improved cereal and horticulture
production, limited rainfed agriculture technology and the recurrent cost implications of an extensive
T&V program for a government already financially strained, should have indicated a narrower area
focus - perhaps limited to one governorate, attention to crops generating significant economic
benefits, greater dependence on mass-media communications, and a well-financed adaptive research
and field demonstration program managed by fewer, qualified and highly mobile staff.
4.5                 Constraints in the agricultural research system were underestimated. While close
institutional linkages with the on-going agricultural research project were discussed in the SAR
(SAR, para. 4.06), the capacity of the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) to finance, staff and
manage a program to develop technologies appropriate to cereal crop production in the project area
was not effectively explored. Project investment in on-farm technology testing and demonstration was
also poorly developed at appraisal.
4.6                 The SAR did not address the critical input supply constraint identified at
preparation and in the IDA Issues Paper. Despite the cessation of fertilizer distribution through
CACB in 1983 and the growing shortage of inputs in the country, no provision was made to support
the development of a private sector inputs distribution system although such support was
acknowledged at preparation to have worked well under SURDP.
4.7                 The CHADP village water supply program did not follow the preparation report
3   A more accurate isohyet map was developed under CHADP as part of the Land and Water Resources and
Irrigation Developnent Study.
4   SAR Working Paper 1.
5   National Livestock Development Project Preparation Report, FAO/WB Cooperative Program, May 1993.



recommendation to adopt the SURDP and UNICEF participatory approach, the latter being
operational in the project area, which required the community to meet about 40% of the cost through
in-kind contributions of labor and local construction materials. Instead, a 10% cash contribution
from the community was required. Subsequent operation and maintenance was to be the responsibility
of the LDAs, despite warnings in the preparation report that the SURDP program was experiencing
difficulties with LDA management of rural water supply schemes.
Project Organization
4.8               The project organization was logically based on the experience of similar
projects in the Tihama and SURDP. The establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR) as the lead agency was in line with government policy. The management
responsibility was rationally allocated at appraisal between a MAWR supervised project office in
Sana'a and the MAWR offices in Sana'a and Dhamar governorates. This was part of a national
approach to institution strengthening in the agricultural sector, in contrast to the earlier approach
(Tihama) of project implementation through a regional Authority. Project area, agro-ecological
spread, and governorate division were factored into project design through the location of sub-project
and Block offices. Cofinancing arrangements were manageable.
Conclusions
4.9               Given the above, it must be concluded with the benefit of hindsight that the
project had some design constraints. The project was designed to provide services to mixed farming
systems throughout the project area. However, the outcome was more of a focus on irrigated
farming, particularly horticulture and cereals, due to lack of technology packages for rainfed
farming. The decision at appraisal to exclude components included at preparation for livestock,
technology demonstration and water management and to exclude community participation in the
village water supply programs, exacerbated design constraints. The conceptual framework was based
on a number of unsustainable assumptions concerning technology transfer, resource allocation and
availability and institutional capability. It is a moot point as to whether the four-year time scale was
appropriate. Slow start-up of other projects in the YAR, together with the limited staff base and lack
of institutional capacity in the project area, might have indicated the need for a longer
implementation period and the opportunity to reprogram funding in response to project outcomes.
In reality, the actual seven-year disbursement period gives testimony to the merit of this latter
approach.
5. Project Implementation
Credit Effectiveness and Disbursement
5.1               The Credit Agreement was signed on June 8, 1984 with credit effectiveness
achieved on May 1, 1985. The December 31, 1989 closure date was extended three times with the
actual credit closing on December 31, 1992.
5.2               Disbursement of the Credit lagged well behind the SAR estimate throughout
project implementation. The amount of SDR6.003 million was disbursed against the IDA credit,



leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR1.797 million or 23% of the SDR7.8 million credit. The
IFAD loan closed on June 3, 1993 with disbursement totalling SDR2.791 million, leaving SDR1 .109
million (28.4% of the total loan) unutilized. ODA commitments were £2.249 million (approximately
US$3.94 million equivalent), well in excess of the US$1 million estimate at appraisal but in line with
the planned ODA disbursement of £2.383 million.
5.3               Government contribution at completion totalled YRls153.2 million (US$14.30
million6) giving a total project cost of US$29.57 million as compared to the projected cost of US$20
million at appraisal. The lower than estimated disbursements under the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan
were in part due to the appreciation of the SDR and devaluation of the Yemeni Rial over the
implementation period but also to cumbersome government financial management and procurement
procedures.  Failure to complete the rural water supply contract before Credit closure also
contributed to the shortfall in disbursements. In US dollar terms, total IDA and IFAD disbursements
at project completion were 96% and 69% of the appraisal estimate respectively. As appraisal
summary accounts are detailed by program (extension, water supply, studies, and administration),
the IDA/IFAD disbursement records by item (vehicles, civil works and consultant services) and
government expenditure by yet another method (salaries, construction, operating expenses,
equipment, vehicles and land), it has not been possible to disaggregate the budgets to make a
comparison between actual and appraised expenditure by category. Government over-expenditure is
due to commitments to the AFESD project, which are not separated in the project accounts, and to
the undertaking of a range of non-project activities, particularly in land and water development.
Project Management
5.4               The CHADP management team was set up within MAWR but worked largely
independently of MAWR management. Regional project teams were not established within MAWR
governorate offices as it had been intended but as parallel services to the MAWR governorate
programs. Working relationships between project and MAWR management, at both national and
governorate level, deteriorated to the detriment of project effectiveness, particularly in the fields of
financial management and project monitoring. The linkages between the regional teams and
headquarters also became a constraint to project effectiveness, particularly in the Dhamar
governorate. Coordination between the teams in the two governorates was also poor. Had SAR
implementation arrangements been followed, it is possible that the communication constraints
experienced would have been mitigated, but experience in Yemen generally has been that
management in MAWR governorate offices is weak. Furthermore, the separation that emerged
between project and governorate management of the development program is likely to be to the
detriment of future sustainability of project field programs. Further weaknesses in management
arrangements also became apparent. The parallel AFESD project, valued at US$10.5 million, placed
a heavy burden on project management capacity and recurrent fund availability. There was no
provision in the design for institutional linkages with other regional projects, especially the UNICEF
rural water supply program.
Local costs converted at average annual officiat rates. This figure includes government contribution to
the AFESD project, the amounts for the respective projects being inseparable in project accounts.



-7-
Achievement of Physical Targets
5.5               The Extension Program slow to start due primarily to delays in recruiting
national and international staff, the latter in part due to slow government clearance of nominees.
This resulted in little field level activity in 1985, although there was some early progress in the
Dhamar governorate stenmming from the ODA-financed Dhamar Agricultural Improvement Center
(DAIC) adaptive research and demonstration program which was transferred to CHADP. The
appointment of extension agents ran behind schedule from 1986 to 1988, especially in the Dhamar
sub-project, but was satisfactory at project completion. Inspite of this constraint, the adaptive
research, technology demonstration, staff training and farmer contact programs all expanded rapidly
between 1986 and 1989 resulting in substantial farmer investment in incremental inputs for irrigated
cereal and horticulture production. Livestock production was not a focus of the project at appraisal
but became another area of development during implementation as a result of a project-led adaptive
research and demonstration program focused on phosphate supplementation of livestock and
fertilization of alfalfa. This program was strongest in the Dhamar sub-project where it was supported
by the use of feeding demonstrations at marketplaces. Another positive unforeseen development was
the growth of a number of successful women's livestock groups. A wide range of extension
publications was also prepared (49 titles are specified in project progress reports) though only a few
were designed for mass media communications. However, a considerable amount of this extension
information was based on textbook information rather than local adaptive research.
5.6               The construction and equipment procurement programs fell well behind
schedule. Onerous tender and contract approval procedures in Yemen, delays in opening Letters of
Credit, poor handling of import procedures by CHADP, a cumbersome customs service, contract
disputes due to non-provision for cost escalation, community disputes over location of facilities and
inefficient contractors were amongst the factors that led to the delays. At project completion, 29
village extension centers (VECs) were completed with an additional three partially constructed. Of
the 29 completed VECs, 2 are damaged by gunfire and unused, and 4 others are unstaffed, the
remaining 23 VECs are staffed by 35 extension agents. All VECs are now furnished, and 17 have
water and power although this was not provided for in the appraisal design.
5.7               The Rural Water Supply Program  has not been completed.  The initial
groundwater resources study was completed in July 1986. However, some of its technical
recommendations were subsequently ignored during the preparation of final design and tender
specifications (ref. para. 5.13). Of the 15 schemes initiated, only one is operational and this is due
only to the local community undertaking to complete the work on its own initiative, a salient
reminder of the importance of community participation. The stage of completion of the remaining
14 schemes varies from 50% to 90%, with all work stopped due to a cost dispute between the
contractor and CHADP. Local communities, who had little input into the development of the
schemes have, with one exception, shown little initiative to complete the work. The construction
work to date has not always been satisfactory, and the performance of the one completed scheme and
initial testing of one other scheme indicate design faults (ref. para. 5.13).
5.8               The Land and Water Resources and Irrigation Development Study
commenced in April 1988 and was completed in June 1991. The report, which was finalized with
substantial revisions, following Government and IDA reviews, indicated the general unprofitability



- 8 -
of investment in spate flow irrigation in the project area and concluded that ground water resources
are over-exploited. Despite this report and despite a covenant in the Credit Agreement to restrain
well drilling in the project area, government authorized the development of 22 well irrigation
schemes financed through a credit line established under the AFESD project, as well as at least 26
other schemes financed by government allocated project funds. This program represented a
substantial commitment of project resources at a time when agreed objectives were failing due to
budget constraints.
5.9                National staffing, reported to have exceeded 500 persons at mid-1991, is,
following repeated supervision recommendations, now reduced to 344 including 116 contract staff.
This number is necessarily higher than SAR estimates due to commitments to the AFESD-financed
project and to the large number of non-project activities undertaken by project management with
national funding: however, scope remains for further substantial staff reductions in what is still a
heavy bureaucracy. Technical staffing at block centers and sub-project and project centers was not
specified at appraisal and now generally exceeds requirement.
Deficiencies in Project Implementation
5.10               Constraints emerged in late 1986 due to inadequate input supply, the continuing
shortage of qualified local staff, especially in Dhamar governorate, and the failure to identify viable
rainfed farming technologies. These constraints were amplified in mid-1987 by a lack of recurrent
funds which persisted for the life of the project, with the Dhamar program being particularly
disadvantaged. This was due more to deficiencies in project-level resource allocation and financial
management than to government budget apportionment. Ministry of Planning and Development
records show adequate budgetary allocation.
5.11               Unapproved expenditures and late and inaccurate accounts provided by the
CHADP Finance Department resulted in MAWR's frequent refusal to replenish funds and in the
subsequent forfeiture of allocated budgets at financial year-end. MAWR was at fault too in failing
to strengthen project's Finance Department, although IDA missions regularly highlighted the issue.
Since 1990 in Dhamar and 1991 in Sana'a, there has been a rapid decline in extension activity due
to departure of technical assistance staff and recurrent budget constraints. By 1993, field extension
activity was negligible, although Village Extension Agents (VEAs) continued to respond to office
inquiries.
5.12               Limited verified technology and weak staff skills also constrained the extension
effort.   Messages, apart from  some for livestock (para. 5.5) and some concerning farm
mechanization, were largely confined to irrigated farming and were not always acceptable to farmers.
The reasons for the lack of acceptance are not always clear as farming systems remain poorly
characterized.  In the medium  rainfall zone, rainfed crop messages were limited and farmer
acceptance was low. In areas receiving < 450 mm rainfall almost no technical message was available.
Improved genetic plant material enjoyed varying success. Sonalika, the principal improved wheat
variety extended sold for a lower price than local durum varieties and proved to be rust susceptible
shortly after release. Komelthar and Taiz-2 improved maize varieties, the other two important cereal
crop releases, are long duration varieties that did not match farmers' requirements for dual purpose
fodder and grain production. They were mainly adopted by larger farmers with spare land and water



- 9 -
capacity. By contrast, improved potato varieties released by the Dutch Government-funded Seed
Potato Project were widely accepted along with the recommended inputs package, as were all
deciduous fruit varieties (except for one Spanish medium chill apple variety which proved to have
a higher vernalization requirement than expected). The project attempted to consolidate linkages with
the agricultural research system. This was more successful in Sana'a than in Dhamar governorate,
but in general the research system failed to respond with appropriate technical packages, especially
for rainfed agriculture and livestock production. Most improved technology extended by the project
was developed through an adaptive research and demonstration program that evolved with the
project. This program, which was not envisaged at appraisal, was the result of the integration of the
former DAIC program, with its applied research focus, into CHADP. The applied research program
was commended by IDA at mid-term review.
5.13              The water supply projects were developed without sufficient community
participation. In many instances, the cash contribution to the water supply scheme was made by
arrangement between the LDAs and the project, not through the participating community. The
extension service had little involvement in this program and so was not able to use it as a means of
winning the confidence of the community. Furthermore, the LDAs were becoming increasingly
instruments of government policy and no longer adequately represented local community interests.
The LDAs have been effectively disbanded in locations where several of the water supply schemes
are sited. Water supply system construction was delayed by a dispute with the contractor over
exchange rate and inflation driven cost increases, mainly accruing from government delay in opening
a letter of credit. There was no provision in the contract to cover inflation. Construction quality has
been variable, with some cases of notably poor work. Initial testing of two7 water supply systems
indicates some design faults. No arrangements have yet been made to develop a water system
operation and maintenance capacity in the beneficiary communities. The community serviced by the
one operational water scheme8 is dissatisfied with the resultant water flow. This scheme had been
expanded by the consulting firm that prepared the final specifications and tender documents, despite
the findings of the 1986 Water Supply Study which had noted the low yield of the associated well.
6. Project Results
6.1               Project accomplishments include: (i) the establishment of an extension network
including 29 completed and 3 partially completed village extension centers together with four block
centers. The program was completed several years late and with some construction faults. These
centers are now grossly under-utilized due to the lack of an operating budget. In fact, contract
extension workers had not been paid for six months at the time of the Completion Mission; (ii) the
appointment and training of a cadre of dedicated extension staff, including a women's extension
service not foreseen at appraisal; (iii) the promotion of improved technology, in part developed
through project adaptive research, for irrigated coffee, apple, peach, potato and tomato production;
(iv) the improvement of irrigated wheat and maize production, though economic benefits are low and
adoption extended to few small farmers; (v) the promotion of the correct use of agricultural
chemicals, especially pesticides and fungicides; (vi) the successful livestock development program;
(vii) the completion of the Land and Water Resources and Irrigation Development Study; and
(viii) the partial completion of 15 village water supply schemes.
7  Daisan and Dar al Beida.
8  Dar at Beida



- 10 -
Extension System
6.2               The project has put in place the physical infrastructure and staffing for the
imnplementation of a T&V extension system. However, this system suffers from considerable
problems, including the lack of clear and proven extension messages (ref. para. 5.12), inadequate
understanding of indigenous farming systems, the disproportionately low number of VEAs in relation
to block and sub-project level technical staff, low staff salaries, an inadequate operating budget,
insufficient staff accountability to the community, and lack of adequate and effective research-
extension linkages. The project's success in the area of irrigated cereal and horticulture crop
development can be attributed to project verification trials, the considerable involvement of the SMSs
id supporting technical assistance in the organization of demonstrations and field days, and the
provision of extension-on-demand services to wealthier, better educated and more mobile farmers.
Tihe project also successfully put in place a women's extension unit. The block centers were only
completed and staffed towards the end of the project, so they had no impact. In any case, it is
unlikely that these centers could have provided a better supporting service than a well staffed, trained
and mobilized governorate level SMS team.
Staff Development
6.3                The project has developed a cadre of VEAs who, on balance, are technically
competent and dedicated given the constraints under which they operate. The local staff in-service
training program has been reasonably broad-based and effective in transferring knowledge, especially
where it involved specialized technical training courses, particularly in plant protection. Knowledge
garnered through the inadequately attended research-extension meetings has tended to be more
prescriptive and less applicable. Field verification and demonstration trials, though applied with
varying degrees of effectiveness over the project life and between sub-projects, have also been an
important training tool for both the extension staff and participating farmers and appear to be one
of the most efficient means of technology transfer in the project area.
Technology Development
6.4               As already noted, the lack of a range of clear and proven extension messages
constrained project effectiveness. Assumptions made in the preparation/appraisal process about the
transfer of technology from the high rainfall southern uplands proved unsustainable. The emerging
research-extension network, expected to support the project, did not develop as quickly or effectively
as anticipated. Had the project not developed its own adaptive research and field verification
program, extension achievements would have been considerably diminished. By the end of the
project, a more unified research-extension network was being set up but by that time the project was
i ioperative due to financial constraints. For the future, the agricultural research network needs to
! 2velop knowledge of indigenous farming systems and adopt a rainfed farming focus.
Project Impact
(. 5              The monitoring and evaluation section of the project management unit has not
conducted surveys or otherwise assembled data which permit reliable and confident estimation of
-roject impact. Therefore, four farm models reflecting situations in which the project has had an



- 11 -
impact were developed specifically for this report.  The main features of these models are
summarized in Annex 1 and detailed in Working Paper 1. Three of the models assume that the
farmer has access to well irrigation but uses the water more productively with project. The fourth
model represents a high rainfall (2 550 mm) crop situation with minor supplemental irrigation. All
models include sorghum, wheat and livestock production activities. Each model shows considerable
financial and economic incremental benefits with project after allowance for expected non-project
yield improvements. These benefits are mainly achieved through increased potato, tomato, coffee or
fruit production. Household financial benefits are summarized in Annex 1, Table 5. These are such
that farm families can be expected to readily adopt the package, especially where the initial
investment could be financed with government assistance. Labor requirements are within family
capacity, except where hired labor is customarily used, e.g. coffee harvest.
6.6               The base estimate of the project's ERR is 17.5%. However, given the lack of
quality in the underlying data, this is not a confident estimate. Should economic costs be 20% higher
and benefits 20% lower than estimated, the ERR would fall to 13%. It is unlikely that the actual
ERR would be lower than that. More than 40% of the benefit stream is derived from coffee. The
area of coffee established is known with relative confidence as are mature yields and inputs. A
further 36% of the benefit stream is derived from irrigated vegetables. The farm distributions used
assume that about 3,000 farmers (excluding fruit and coffee farmers) have adopted improved cereal
crop production techniques from a total population of more than 20,000 farmers with irrigation.
These are considered reasonable assumptions.
6.7               It is clear that farmers would have increased cereal crop and horticultural
production and efficiency in the absence of this project. However, the models allow for such
increases and still generate acceptable rates of return.
7. Project Sustainability
7. 1              Despite the acceptable ERR stemming from its activities to date, the project
structure is not sustainable in its present form and it is this that leads to the conclusion that the
project was not satisfactory. The CHADP programs in the field are quite detached from Governorate
MAWR agricultural programs, and focus on the Sana'a Governorate, to the detriment of the more
distant Dhamar project program. Furthermore, CHADP management enjoys the confidence of neither
MAWR management nor of many project staff and is effectively neutralized. Project financial control
is weak.
7.2               The financial constraints that have bedeviled the project are only partly due to
poor project financial management. Poor relationships between CHADP managers and key MAWR
department heads have resulted in poor cooperation by MAWR management on key issues including
staff placement and account clearance.  Government financial management procedures further
compounded the project financial constraints. The appointment of a Project Steering Committee9,
selected from both government and private sectors and capable of monitoring project management
and interceding on behalf of the project when required, is recommended.
Equivalent to the Board of Directors that governs other projects which are estabLished as independent
Authorities.



- 12 -
7.3               If there is to be any chance of sustainability, changes must be made. In the
Dhamar Governorate, the program should, as originally conceived, be fully integrated with that of
the governorate level MAWR office and closely linked to the Dhamar based AREA program. In
Sana'a Governorate, the option of attaching the CHADP structure to the Northern Region
Agricultural Development Project (NORADP) should be weighed against the eventual need for a self-
sustaining agricultural services program in the Governorate. However, as an interim measure,
attachment to NORADP could be a stabilizing factor in the next few years as the reorganization of
the research-extension system takes effect and the impact of the proposed structural adjustment
program works through the economy.
7.4               As discussed in paras. 5.7 and 5.13, the rural water supply program failed.
Construction was not completed due to a contract dispute, but more importantly there was not enough
involvement of the community. This would be best achieved by working through traditional social
structures rather than politicized LDAs. Given the apparently intractable dispute on the water supply
construction fees, it is unlikely that the contract construction can now be completed. Therefore, it
is recommnended that the existing infrastructure be handed over to the communities for completion
using community resources, with supervision provided by the project. This approach would also
contribute, even at this late stage, to the communities' sense of ownership of the schemes.
Government must thereafter train community members in the operation and maintenance of the
schemes. The experience at Dar al Beida (para. 5.13) indicates that this is likely to be a successful
and sustainable approach.
8. IDA Performance
8.1               Staff appraisal focused on the similarities of the project area with that of
SURDP when attention was required on the differences. This imbalance led to over-investment in
extension infrastructure relative to available technology and lack of attention to the more disparate
farming systems in the project area. When the original SAR economic analysis is disaggregated by
farm model, it is clear that negligible economic benefits were available from cereal cropping with
most benefits projected to come from irrigated horticultural production, as has occurred in practice.
And yet, project resources were not concentrated on irrigated or horticultural production. Perhaps,
this reflected a desire to widen access to benefits but, if so, that desire was not explicit. Better
focusing of project resources on high benefit activities could have produced good results at lower
cost, for example, limiting project investments outside of the high potential horticulture zones.
8.2               Up to the November 1987 mid-term review, IDA supervision, recognized most
deficiencies in project implementation but remained optimistic in its assessment of the likelihood of
government actions to correct these deficiencies. Comparison of the separate IDA and ODA project
mid-term reviews indicates a more optimistic assessment of project effectiveness on IDA's part and
an underestimation of the importance of TA input to initial project successes. The more resolute
approach taken by subsequent supervision missions, had it been applied earlier, particularly with
respect to the rectification of project financial, program management and monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) constraints, could have resulted in a more successful project implementation. And only
towards the end of the project did IDA recognize MAWR's part in the poor performance through
its failure to support appointment of adequately skilled staff and to facilitate processing of project
accounts. Earlier analysis of this issue and the search for its solution could have contributed to
resolving the problem. Nonetheless, IDA supervision missions helped resolve many management



- 13 -
problems and showed flexibility and imagination in finding solutions to procurement and
disbursement problems.
8.3               Supervision missions had a beneficial impact on the shaping of the program,
facilitating some of the unforeseen developments that are among the project's achievements, such as,
the livestock program and the women's extension service. Earlier supervision attention to technical
and management aspects of the village water supply program could have reduced constraints
confronting this program. The lack of community participation in water scheme construction could
have been corrected during project implementation. UNICEF, an organization with a successful
background in village water supply development in the project area, could have usefully been
engaged to supervise implementation.
8.4               Credit extension. While the first two credit extensions seem justified on the
basis of on-going work programs and reasonable expectation of Government response to outstanding
issues, the third and final extension was based on more complex considerations. By mid-1991 the
project was going downhill rapidly but a change in management, brought about by the project
manager's assassination, raised expectations for a successful final outcome. Ultimately, expectations
of the new project management were disappointed, in part because of the continued lack of support
for the project from key MAWR departments; the extension program, despite the completed
infrastructure and adequate staffing, virtually ceased to operate due to the lack of recurrent budget;
discrepancies in the project accounts were not resolved; and work on the water supply program
virtually ceased due to a contractual dispute.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1               The Borrower was generally supportive of the project objectives and allocated
adequate financial resources for project implementation. However, project covenants, although
largely complied with, were often implemented well behind schedule with consequent negative impact
on project implementation. The delayed appointment of VEAs and of the M&E technical advisor
were particularly disadvantageous. The Borrower failed to meet the covenant to constrain well
drilling in the project area, pending a comprehensive survey of water resources. Once the survey
had been conducted and it was clear that water resources were being overexploited, the Borrower,
nevertheless, allowed drilling to continue using its own resources and funding from AFESD. This
is likely to impact on the sustainability of project benefits which were almost entirely derived from
irrigated agriculture.
9.2               The low priority that Government gave in the mid-1980s to importation of
essential agricultural inputs seriously constrained project effectiveness for several years. However,
the private sector is now sufficiently vigorous to ensure adequate supply. Borrower duties (50%) on
the importation of animal phosphorus supplements are a major constraint to improved livestock
productivity and contributed to the ineffectiveness of the project initiated livestock nutrition program.
9.3               The Borrower was not very responsive to supervision recommendations for
addressing project financial and program management. This lack of response suggests a low degree
of ownership by MAWR management. Delays in the approval process for local and international
tenders hindered project implementation, as did the Borrower's failure to meet its commitment to the



- 14 -
cost of the rural water supply program which necessitated an amendment to the project Credit
Agreement.
9.4               The national agricultural research program was unable to service the technology
requirements of farmers in the project area and continues to lack an adequate focus on rainfed
agriculture and livestock production, both key activities for smallholder farm families who represent
the overwhelming majority of agricultural producers in the project area. Agricultural credit through
CACB represents such a small percentage of farming credit that its performance was immaterial to
project implementation.
10. Project Relationships
10.1              Relationships between project partners were initially good but became
increasingly difficult when the recurrent budget crisis developed. This led to the earlier than planned
departure of ODA staff from the Dhamar sub-project. The frequent IDA supervision missions
contributed significantly to project management through a continued input of helpful guidance and
advice that led to the resolution of a number of implementation constraints.
11. Consulting Services
11.1              Consultant input was generally satisfactory. In the Dhamar sub-project, technical
assistance inputs greatly exceeded appraisal estimates. In the Sana'a sub-project, the
extension/agronomy team integrated well and trained local staff. However, technical assistance was
inadequate in the fields of financial management, monitoring and evaluation, water system design
(phase II) and supervision of construction. The two-year delay in the appointment of the M&E
technical advisor and his subsequent failure to develop a credible project field monitoring program
has been a serious handicap. The technical advisors and associated SMSs carried the project in the
initial years and were responsible in large part for farmer contacts through to 1988, especially in the
Dhamar area. The departure of some TA from Dhamar resulted in the collapse of the programs to
which they were attached, notably livestock development and farm mechanization, indicating both
a failure to train up sufficient local staff and a lack of management support for these programs.
12. Project Documentation
12.1              Weaknesses in the SAR and the project preparation report have already been
noted in paras. 4.1, 4.4 - 4.9. As such, the documents did not provide an adequate framework for
project implementation. The project description in the SAR was unusually brief with insufficient
implementation detail or monitoring indicators. The project monitoring and evaluation section did
not conduct surveys or otherwise assemble data which permit reliable and confident estimation of
project benefits. Project financial audit reports up to and including 1990 were heavily qualified.
Project accounts for 1991 have been audited but the audit report has not yet been submitted to IDA.
The 1992 accounts have not yet been audited.



_ 15 _
13. Lessons Learned
13.1              The following is a summary of lessons learned from project implementation:
*     Project design which seeks to emulate success achieved in adjacent
regions should focus on the differences between the regions rather than
their similarities. Project preparation without supporting analysis of
farming systems is perilous, especially in rainfed areas, where food
security is often based on an extensive indigenous knowledge of local
agro-ecological zones and related crop and livestock genetic resource
use. Participatory approaches such as rapid rural appraisal should
become a feature of project preparation in Yemen.
*     Key indicators for implementation and expected impact must be detailed
at appraisal, and realistic implementation timeframes should be set out.
Equally, assumptions made when defining project objectives and
activities should be clearly defined and closely evaluated. Logical
Framework Analysis is a simple and effective tool for linking project
goals/objectives and input/output activities to key indicators and
assumptions and should be more widely applied.
*     Poor relations with key MAWR departments contributed to the project's
poor performance. Other projects in Yemen have demonstrated the
value of a Board of Directors, selected from both government and
private sectors, with the mandate of supervising project management and
interceding on behalf of the project when required. Future MAWR
implemented projects should be supported by a Steering Committee,
constituted similar to the Regional Authorities' Board of Directors,
responsible for approving annual work plans and budgets and monitoring
project progress. Training should be provided for project management.
*     When project components are directed toward activities identified in the
economic analysis as having limited benefit, justification should be
provided on social grounds and should identify and factor out any
political interference in design. For example, in the project area poverty
alleviation and enhancement of women's productivity and income base
could have been strong grounds for project intervention particularly in
rainfed areas. But the justification should be explicit and this should
have a beneficial impact on project design.
*     Macro-economic reform in the areas of import licensing and duties,
customs services, government trade and price policy and the exchange
rate mechanism are critical to future investment project effectiveness in
Yemen, and projects should be firmly set in this larger economic
context.



- 16 -
LCCDs (formerly LDAs) are no longer an effective way of achieving
community participation, nor do they appear to be especially interested
in agricultural development. Future projects must investigate traditional
community or new cooperative structures as a means of enhancing
community participation.
13.2              Perhaps the key lesson is the need to build sustainability into all aspects of a
project. Despite the acceptable ERR, the project structure is not sustainable in its present form, and
it is this more than anything that leads to the conclusion that the project was not satisfactory. Issues
impacting on the sustainability of the extension service have been highlighted (paras. 5.12 and 6.2).
With the physical resources now in place, a new extension strategy - diagnostic based, solution-
driven, using mass media - must be developed for their effective utilization. The challenge is also
to ensure the survival of the project structure ; the teams that have been built up need to be fitted
into new institutional homes quickly (para. 7.2). Finally, sustainability of the water supply program
would have required far more involvement of the community. This might still be achieved; works
should be handed over to the communities for completion and operation, and Government should
train community members for this purpose (para. 7.4).



- 17 -
CLNTRAL I-GH lLANDS AGRICUL.TURAL DEVELOf'MtENT IPROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 11
PROJECTl REVIEW
F'ROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTlVE
San a'a
Januairy 1994



- 18 -
PAR'T fI. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
L'a3C 1 gi ou nd
I.   This part of the report will present an analytical and
selective revie', of key issues related to the project's
'iJnolopDmcnb Ari+p.t Anrf lqssonU le,arnod, in addition to
a   retr-ospective   assessment  of   its   design   and
inmpleCfIentation,    fronm    Eorrower's    perspective.
Consequently,   successes  and   drawbacks   would   be
idHntlfied as to their implications to future project
preparatiorn, appr:aisal and imiplementation.
2.   The project ainmed at impz:oving farmers' inconie and their
quality of life in ten adjacent districts in Sana.a and
Dhamar governorates, all of which were affected by the
1982 ea-:thquake. Thu.5, the project has important timing
and area Implications. CHADP has bcen established after
enough   tim,e  elapsed  since   the  corimence ment  of
agrlcultural development in other parts of the country;
i.e, when MAWR has cgained considerable experience in
imnplementing similar RDP's. Mcanwhile, the project area
was just recovering from the devastating effects of the
earLhqlake,  that left most of the area's population
homneless and/or without the basic infrastructure. The
selection of this area was justificd as it represents
the challenging development of dryland agriculture ln
the Yemen highlands; where significant expanses of
farmland, producing cereals, legumles, tree crops and
livestock; are located. Dry farminig predominates in this
project area.
Proj?_ect Design and Organization
3.   The  project  was  designed  to set-up  an  appropriate
organizational structure for extension services within
the  provincial  offices  of MAWR in both Sana'a  and
Dhamar, starting with the selected five districts in
each   governorate.    Unfortunately,    this   planned
organlzation did not last longer, as MAWR's office in
Sana'a had been merged with the newly established RDA
working  in  Sana'a,  Sa'dah  and  Hajja  governorates



- 19 -
(S53HARIDA). SimilarlIy,  MAWR's  office  in  Dhamar  had
eventually been separated fromii the extension services,
which was linked to CHADP's branch at the remains of the
once ODA-assisted Dhanlar Agricultural Improvemnent Center
(D0AIC) .
4.   The  project  design,  yet  recognizedi  the  need  for
establshing water .supply schemes, it underestimated the
actual. number of schemes. Thc 15 water supply schemes
envisaged in the project area are too few to cover tr,e
nmost needy areas. This drawback could be attributed to
shortage of information, poor hydrogeology of the area,
5-a;Cist1a;i, e'Le,ated b le2 %,-,Wa d.,C zuic),LaI. pZroble:ils.
In addition,  th- proposed unpavdcl rtural roads are in
need of freguent maintenance being in rucgged-terra n
areas vulneraLle to erosion. Also, the project desi(jn
has    giv c,n   little    attention    to    environmnr t
sustainability.
Projcct Acti.vitiJes
5.   There has been an apparent imbalance between efforts
given to accomplish civil works for infrastructure
development,  and  those  to  develop  and  consolidate
agriculLural extensioni services which constitute the
basis of achieving development targets. Hence, farmers
had responded positively to the project's infrastructure
rather  than  to extension  services, This  imbalanced
attention could be partially justified on grounds of the
poor bureaucratic systein of the Borrower. But, farnmers'
confidence in the extension apparatus in the project
area might have been adversely influenced.
6.   The unplanned administrative annexation of terminated or
specialized  smcall projects  in districts  beyond  the
project area (Haraz Reafforestation Project, Khawlan
Rural Development Project and  Khawlan  Rural  Womnen
Dcvelopment  Project)  had  overburdened  the  project
management. Ttil   IIVU1JveJIIeCItL wILLvuL  ouZi1iL . tcQff
and operational funds resulted in cutting down prograir:s
within the target area.



- 20 -
Prniect ImnI r1mentrit. i.on
7.   On behalf of the Borrower, the project was implemented
by MAWR througjh a project management comprising, as
planned, of a General Manager assisted by the directors
of the two MAWR offices, who have later beer, replaced by
full-time derputies. Thse consequent centralization at the
project's  headquarters  in 5,ana'a has  then  weakened
coordination of project activities within the two
yovernorates. Moreover, the disengagement  of MAWR's
offices had contributed to reduced CHADP's role in
strengthiening the capacity of the two offices at the
provincial levcl . Moreover, the  undekrutilization  of
project  staff  and  low  level  of  coordination  with
concerned  governnment  agencies  had  resulted  in  the
tirtmeliness of achieving project targets, as well as the
loss of an opportunity for a second phase project.
B.   The project was subject to many risks that have been
partially   identified   at   appraisal   stage   (i.e.
uncertainty of rainfall and slow start-up). Somie of the
proposed remedies for rainfall uncertainties have even
complicated the situation. For instance, decision
concerning the use of inputs had exposed the project to
a potential risk of frequent shortages and increasing
prices of inputs. Also, identified risks associated with
government  actions  have  overlooked  the  governnTent
intention to re-organize the institutional set-up of
agricultural development in Sana'a governorate.
9.   Other unforseen risks, characteristic to Yemen, were
associated with social influences on decision making and
with the lack of technological packages for dryland
farming.  Influential community leaders had,  in nmany
instances, either altered designed plans or asked for
unplanned services to be offered by the project. Also,
dispersion of settlements and everlasting disputes on
land required for civil works embody other social
aspects tflar causeCu dacdlLiulzal pioJecC time ctlici fund3 to
be allocated for fulfilling target activities. With an
actual slow start-up, an extended project period has
been offered for extra three years. The situation of
dryland farming beingS relatively not well addressed by



- 21 -
national research service, has made (an.d will renmain
mlaking) extensionists helpless to provide alternative
farm techrnology for adopLion by farmers.
Pro ec t Rest 1I t s
10.  The prnject has completed most of its target civil works
including wateer supply schclles, block centers, extension
centers and nurseries; in addition to rural roads and
improved irrigation schemes funcled by AFESD. It also
provided for a study on land and water resources and
irrigation development, with the aim of determining
resources potential and optimizing their use in project
area and adjacent districts, which needs future follow-
up.  Nevertheless,  issues related to struc:ture/schemne
design, operation and maintenanice (O&M), and technology
transfer remain considerahly unsolved. For instance, one
of the roads andi several water supply schemes  hlave
either not been fully completed or not been handed-over
to beneficiaries (LDA's). In all cases, further MAWR
obligations are anticipated.
11.  Some extension and block centers remain either poorly
furnishecl, inadequately supplied with utilities, and/or
under-staffed. The situation has left these mansons
partially/totally non-functional, hence the extension
program is constrained and virtually unaccomplished. A
sublsLantial hinderance of the technology transfer would,
however, arise from  : (i) lack of qualified extension
staff (supervisors, SMS's, VEA's . .. etc) as a result of
either    difficulties    in   recruitment,   improper
distribution, lack of incentives, obstacles in training
or lack of women extension centers; (ii) shortage and/or
high prices of inputs; and (iii) dependency of farmers
on project subsidy to technological innovations, e.g.
inputs, chicken layers, infiltration galleries ... etc.
,OjecCt Impact
12.  Evidently, the basic rural infrastructure and services
(roads, water supply ... etc) have had an obvious impact
on the rural coammunity in the project area. Similarly,
the overall outcome of different extension activities in



- 22 -
irrigatcd areas was pusitive anr!resulted in adoption of
inmproeved  soCd  (wlleat and  potat.oCs),  application  of
ajgrochenicals anct snial. -scale manual imn.plements (use of
reapers). In corntrast, efficient use of water by farmers
needs more effort and persuasion. The lower levels of
adoption would probably be associated with the relative
hig,l costs  of  localized  and  pressurized  irrigation
systems, and the lack of extension packages on improving
water harvestinfj systems on-farm management of surface
irrigation  systems,  with  which  farmers  are  mostly
familiar. Stharing irrigation water sources seenis to be
one step ahead towards optimizing water use in the area,
L'.a§ :U'  to be L r eted.
13.  There is a noticeable tendency among farmers to accept
and  adopt  recommended  innovations.   Molnitorin(g  and
evaluation reports  indicatecd ver-y higjh adoption rate
among farmaers' leaders with variably decreasin(g rates
amorng contact and influenced farmners. But they failed to
quantify the adoption rate and to identify the farmning
systems (rainfed or irrigated). Moreover, the project
impact on crop production and cropping pattern, both of
which  depend  on  a  continuous  supply  of  technical
innovations,  could  not  be  verified.  Basically,  the
appeai  of  the  cxLension  services  and  thus  higher
adoption rates could only bc achieved when the extension
program addresscs farmer's problems of how to inprove
farnm  productlivity.  At  the  present  low  levels  of
coorCdinatio-n and weak linkages between extensionists and
researchers as wel.l as the under-utilizatiorn of trained
qualified staff,  the anticipated impiact would not be
sustai.ned.
Future Role of the Project
14.  Despite  the  partial  fulfillment  of  establishing  an
organization for project implementation, CHADP has been
able to provide grounds for future continuation of
similar actlvltles, eSpeCidliy  III LAICULL.. YeL IubL C
planned, the project area in Sana'a could re-adjust and
nercje within SSHARDA. In Dhaniar, the remaining human and



- 23 -
physical resources of CHADP could be consolidated wiith
MAWR'S office a-.d institutionialized into a second phase
RDP/RDA to serv? Dhamnar and contermuinous governorates of
similar conditions. This set-up would probably help to
achieve  the  unaccomplished  goals  of  the  extension
program, to improve basic rural infrastructure in other
remote/neglected areas, and to develop and efficiently
utilize the land and water resources,
IDA Performance
15.  IDA has shown well perfornmance during almost all stages
of the project and assisted in cuofdin1atinfg 1ia tfezdl
contributions (UK and AIESD) to project activities.  In
addition, IDA appreciated thr prnjer-t difficul.ties an.
agreed to extend its period (para. 9). Nevertheless,
there were some shortcomings that have thrown shadovi on
project implementation.  These  include:  (i)  frequent
changes of IDA's project supervisors and (ii) direct IDA
supervisory  on  the  project.  Replacement of  project
supervisors had affected project implementation due to
unfamiliarity of new supervisors with project' and to
variability among supervisors in conceptual approach of
project activities. Likewise, direct contact between IDA
sulpervisors and project management, in absence of MAWR
supervisors and local project staff, would weaken the
monitoring role of MAWR and might reflect misleading
project progrQss.
Borrower Performance
16.  Decision   making  had  been  partially  affected   by
interference of influential social figures (para. 9).
Moreover, the disappointing bureaucracy and weak
monitoring  and  evaluation  have  characterized   the
Borrower performance throughout the project life.
Undoubtedly, the unsuitable bureaucratic procedures have
been    detrimental    to    project    implementation,
Lonsequontly, rwuu;t  ciiUl unlLimely budgct cllut.uLicsso,
particularly those required for staff recruitment and
for   operation    expenses,   have   hindered    staff



-24 -
util zation/ traini inj   adrli   caused     irreJularity/
discontinuity of the extensior, program. Similarly, the
procurement process has been affected as a result of
delayod tender approval and custoItm clearzance.
17.  The descriptive reports of the monitoring and evaluation
urlit  failed  to  cquantify  and  analyze  the  project
constraints and connectdcc  detrimontdl consequences on
loan utilization and pruject impact on beneficiaries. At
tinmcs   when   these   reports   ctitically   discussed
encumbL-ances,  the  ret2ction  oa  concer ned  2orrcwer's
a;encies seeur,ed iLrercolute. The weak performcrance of the
monitoring and evaluation could have beeri an outcomne of
the  unplannr.ed  attachment  of  the  unit  to  project
management,  and  due  to MAW RR's  inadequate  follow-up
m-chanism ,
TDA - Bor-ower R_lationship
18,  A remarkable relationship between IDA and the Government
of Yemen (the Borrower) has prevailed during all stages
of the project, Corisidering the accumulated experience
in Yenmen with similar development projects, both parties
have workerd together to avoid and/or alleviate comnion
constraints encountcring ROP's. However, drawbacks of
this  partnership  could  be  related  to  three  major
shortcomincjs. First, failure to identify proper
mechanismn  for  strengthening  the  role  of  MAWR's
p-ovincial offices, which would need more effort and
time to redctivatc these nff,icrs. Seconndly, overlooking
a steering committee, sinmulating board of directors in
RDA's, which could have helped project nLanagement to
consolidate   its   admlinistrative   capabilities   and
effectiveness within MAWR and other concerned agencies
of the Borrower. And thirdly, negligence of involving
the respective project management in early-stages of
project,  whose  participation  would  have  irlcreased
appreciation of inner elenients in project formulation.
Alco;o) hc/o1Lc: wcjuld have beeni coC)innhitLe(  to wnat was a
cooperative joint work between IDA and the Borrower.



- 25 -
Lessons Learned
19,  In  addition  to  i.ssues  pointed  Out 'in  previous
paragraphs,  experience  with  project  inmplementation
demonstrates that difficulties may arise from deviation
fromn planned project design. Also, in order to assure
substantial impact of such projects, two points should
be considered: (i) participation of berieficiaries in all
stages  of  the  project,particularly  with  regard  to
identificatLion    and    implenmentation    of    rural
infrastructure    and   services,    and   later   full
responsibility of operatioen antic maintenance, and (ii)
confinemient of project's role to financial support and
follow-up of thcse infrastructure/services; whereas,
giving priority to tcchnology transfer. At last, but not
least,  avoidance  of  overlapped  ccverage  limits  of
RDA's/RDP's in the sanme administrative units   (e.g.
governorates),  would provide better environment  for
implementation of development projects,



- 26 -
PART III - SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
1. Related IDA Credits
Title/Credit                                       Purpose                     Approval         Status         Comments
Fiscal Year
Second Southern Uplands Rural    To improve the well-being of about 60,000 farm  1981           Closed         PCR issued
Development Project (Cr. 1067)   families in the lbb and Taiz govemorates by                   June 1987      January 1990
raising crop and livestock production, improving
human health and providing potable water.
Agricultural Research and       Phase III of a long-term program to develop       1982          Closed         PCR issued
Development Project (Cr. 1259)   agricultural research in the five major agro-              December 1991   February 1993
ecological zones of the then YAR and expansion
of the extension network in the Central Highlands.
Agricultural Credit Project     To strengthen CACB as an institution through      1983          Closed         PCR issued
(Cr. 1308)                      reorganization and the implementation of a credit           December 1989   January 1991
survey and to provide funds in support of its
lending program.
In addition to the above three projects which directly impacted on the CHADP, the following rural development projects were financed by
IDA in the then YAR: Tihama Development I (Cr. 376); Southern Uplands Rural Development Project I (Cr. 545); Tihama Development
It (Wadi Rima) (Cr. 805); Tihama Development IV (Wadi Rima 11) (Cr. 978); Wadi Al Jawf Agricultural Development (Cr. 1584); Tihama
Development V (Cr. 1667); Southem Rural Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1772), Agricultural Development (Northern Region) (Cr.
1886) and Agricultural Development (Eastem Region) (Cr. 1983).
2. Project Timetable
Item                                                     Date Planned               Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification                                                n.a.                      n.a.               August 1982
Preparation                                                   n.a.                      n.a.             November 1982
Appraisal Mission                                          April 1983                    -                AprilUMay 1983
Board Approval                                                n.a.                      n.a.             March 23, 1984
Credit Signature                                              n.a.                      n.a.               June 8, 1984
Credit Effectiveness                                    October 10, 1984                 -                 May 1, 1985
Project Completion                                     December 31, 1988         December 31, 1989      December 31, 1991
December 31, 1990
December 31, 1991
Credit Closing                                         December 31, 1989         December 31, 1990      December 31, 1992
December 31, 1991
December 3 1, 1992
3. Credit Disbursements
IDA Credit Disbursement Year         1985    1986      1987      1988     1989      1990    1991      1992        1993
US$ million .
Appraisal Estimate (SDR) "            1.8      3.6      4.8       5.8      6.9       7.8       -        -           -
Appraisal Estimate (USS)              1.8      3.7      4.9       5.9      7.0       8.0       -        -
Actual (SDR)"                         0.6      1.5      2.1       3.1      3.9       4.6      5.7      5.7        6.0
Actual (US$)                          0.7      1.7      2.4       3.8      4.8       5.8      7.2      7.2        7.7
Actual as % of Estimate (SDR)        33.3    41.7       43.7     53.4      56.5     58.9    73.1    73.1          76.9
Actual as % of Estimate (USS)        38.8    45.9       49.0     64.4      68.6     72.5    90.0    90.0          96.3
Exchange rate of SDRI = US$I.02 applied.
Converted at exchange rate prevailing at the time of disbursements.
Date of Final Disbursement: May 27, 1993.



4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                                                 Actual 2'
Item                                Local                   Foreign                   Total                      Local                     Foreign                     Total
YR mil.    USS mil.    YR mil.    USS mil.    YR mil.    USS mil.           YR mil.      USS mil.      YR mil.      USS mil.      YR mil.      USS mil.
Extension                     15.4         3.4         14.9         3.3         30.3         6.7
Water supply                   5.0          1.1        16.0         3.6         21.0         4.7
Studies                        1.6         0.4          3.8         0.8         5.4           1.2
Administration                 7.4         1.6          3.4         0.8         10.8         2.4
Others                          -            -                       -            -
Sub-total                   29.4         6.5         38.1         8.5         67.5         15.0
Contingencies
Physical                       1.4         0.3          2.9         0.6         4.3          0.9
Price                         10.3         2.3          7.9         1.8         18.2         4.1
Sub-total                   11.7         2.6         10.8         2.4         22.5         5.0
TOTAL                         41.1          9.1        48.9        10.9         90.0         20.0                      14.35                      14.75                      29.57
Al Neither World Bank nor Government accounts allow disbursements to be aggregated by SAR categories.
B. Project Financing
Source                                              Planned                                    Actual
on SAR                                   (USS mil.)
(USS mil.)
IDA                                                  8.000                                     7.660
IFAD                                                 4.000                                     3.618
ODA                                                  1.000                                      3.937
Domestic                                             7.000                                     14.355
Total                                               20.000                                     29.570



- 28 -
5. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
Item                                           Unit        Target          Revised             Actual         Remarks
Target
Civil Works
Block Extension Center                         no.            4               -                   4            Utility connection not completed at
all centers.
Village Extension Center '                     no.           32               -                  29           Three remaining centers, 50%
completed
Rural Water Schemes 5                          no.           15               -                   I           Only operational scheme finished by
community not project. Other
schemes vary from 50% to 90%
completed.
Vehicles
. Pick-up                                      no.            19              -                 n.a. 
- 4-wheel drive                                no.           20                                 n.a.
- Motorcycles                                  no.           14                                  22
Studies
Land and Water Resources and Irrigation                   June 1986           -               June 1991
Development Study
Staffing
Recruitment of VEAs                             no.          34               -                  37           Recruitment delayed relative to
project schedule.
Female EAs                                     no.           n.a.             -                   8
Technical Assistance                           PY            34                                 n.a.
Block Center SMSs                              no.           n.a.                                17
Overseas training                              PY            n.a.             -                  15.5
Local training courses                         no.           n.a.             -                  79 1'
Extension Activities
Participating farmers                          no.         8,325               -                8,325  s'
Technology demonstrations                      no.           n.a.             -                 2,453 5
Farm field days                                no.           n.a.             -                   361 y
Developed area                                  ha         16,430             -                 n.a.
f   The extension infrastructure was completed about two years behind schedule.
F An on-going and possible irresolvable contractual dispute is likely to result in the uncompleted schemes remaining unfinished unless
local communities take charge.
f Project records are incomplete.
d' Taken from project progress reports. October 1990 supervision report indicates 128 courses but does not indicate source of
information.
f   Project estimate for 1993.
f Project records are incomplete. Progress reports indicate 12,113 farm visits by the Project Extension Department and 4,256 by
other project departments.
IV Almost the only farmer contact at present is through farmer visits to village extension centers.
Y' Extracted from project progress reports for 1987-91 inclusive.
*" Project records are incomplete, however, TA input most likely exceeded 34 person years (PY) due to a higher input under ODA
assistance to Dhamar.



- 29 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal                      Estimate at
Estimate                     Closing Date
Beneficiaries                                           8,325                          > 8,325
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate                  PCR  Estimate
Economic Rate of Return                                                              27%                              17.5%
Underlying assumptions are detailed in Annex I Economic benefits are derired from incremental coffee, deciduous fruit, potato and tomato production from
an estimated 4,888 farmers. No economic benefits were attributed to incremental cereal or livestock production, the former due to its low benefit stream and
the latter due to the project's failure to develop a credible livestock program.
C. Studies
Study                                               Purpose                                                   Status     Impact of Study
Water Supply Study                                  Siting of 15 proposed rural water supply schemes        Completed      One scheme
completed
Land and Water Resources and Irrigation Development  Assessment of existing resources and on-going exploitation   Completed  Impact planned for
Study                                               and indication of development potential.                              second phase of
project
Preparation of Phase 11 Project                     Preparation of follow-on investment program.            Completed    Recommended
second phase
cancelled
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant in Credit                                   Subject                                     Deadline    Status
Agreement (CA)
4.02                Employment of project manager and support staff.                                n.a.      Complied with.
4.03                To recruit technical assistance by dates and in accordance with the details set forth  n.a.  Full complement of TA staff
in Schedule 4 of the CA.                                                                 achieved, except of M&E
advisor who was recruited in
1988, not 1985 as scheduled.
4.04                To train at least 20 new extension agents per year for the project between 1984  n.a.     Full complement of extension
and planned 1988 completion.                                                              agents achieved two years
behind schedule.
4.06 (iii)          Submit six-monthly progress report.                                              -        Six-monthly progress reports
prepared for period 1987-91
inclusive. No reports in 1992.
4.06 (iv)           Conduct a mid-term project evaluation.                                      December 31, Completed February 1988, due
1985     to delays in project start-up.
5.01 (b)           The project accounts should be audited by independent auditors each fiscal year.  -        Audit reports consistently late
and incomplete due to
inadequate project accounts.
No audit submitted FY91 &
FY92.
5.03                No well drilling in project area until study has proven availability of adequate  -       Not complied with.
groundwater resources.



8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle                                                         Planned                                             Revised                                                     Actual
Identification                                                                    n.a.                                                                                                           na.
Preparation                                                                       n.a.                                                                                                           n.a.
Appraisal through Board Approval                                                  n.a.                                                                                                           n.a.
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                              n.a.                                                                                                           n.a.
Supervision                                                                       n.a.                                                                                                           43
Project Complebion                                                                n.a.                                                                                                            10
' Duration of Supervision of February 1987 not available to mission.
B. Mission Data
UlMkiomo MonttrYear                                       Number of Persons            Day                 Specalization                                  Performnance                              Type of
In fied                   Pi Problemni
Statues                Trend                D Dev. Irnpact
identification (FAOICP)                   08/o2                  n a                   n.a                      n a
Prepaation (FAO/CP)                        11/82                  4                     23                    A,E,IE.L
Appraisal, IDA (IFAD)                     06M/3                   7                     n.a                     na.
Supervision    1                           12/84                  2                      3                     E, IE                    2                      1                      0            LS
2                           05/55                   1                     3                 (report missing)              2                      1                      0
3                           12/a5                   2                     11                     E,A                      2                      1                      0            LS (Finance)
4                           05/86                   1                     3                        E                      2                      1                      1
5                           09/36                   1                     10                      E                       2                      1                      1            CPF, LS (Finance)
6                           02/87                   3                     ?                       E.A                     2                      1                      1            CPF, LS (Finance)
7                           10/87                   3                     9                       E,A                     2                      2                      1            M, CPF, LS (Extension)
(2 OOA)
8                           10/88                   5                     6                     E,IE.A                    2                      2                      2            CPF, LS (Extension)
9                           06189                   4                     9                      IE,A                     2                      2                      2            CPF. LS
10                          12/89                   1                     8                       A                       2                      3                      2            M. CPF
11                          06190                   4                     10                 A,IE,ME, WID                 2                      2                      2            CPF, PFU
12                          10190                   3                     7                     A.IE,F                    2                     3                       2            M, PFU; CPF
13                          07/91                   5                     10                A,IE,EV,W1D,F                 3                     3                       2            M, PFU; CPF
14                          02/92                   3                     7                      A,S                      3                     3                       2            M, PFU; CPF
-        15                           08/92                   4                     6                   A,IE,F,Ex                  3                      3                      3            M. PFU; CPF
-    A = Aiculturiist E  Eonist; ME = Monitoring and Evaluation' IE = Imgation Engineer, VViD = Women in Dsvelopment; F = Financial Analyst, L = Livestock Specialist
Ex = Extension Specialist EV = Environment Specialist; IS = Institutional Specialist
! 1 = Problem free or minor poblems; 2 = underwent prems, 3 = major problems.
!    1 = tmprovv   2 = stainory; 3 = detenorating
*    F   -  f inanci*aI          M   =  mana g eriaI.           P   =  politicalI          CPF   =  counterpart  f unds;                  LS   =  local   5ta f fing;   PFU    =  Pro ject  FinanciaI  Unit



- 31 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
ANNEX I
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT OF THE CENTRAL
HIGHLANDS PROJECT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This assessment is based upon project documents including the SAR, progress reports and
reports prepared by the Farm Management Section, Dhamar. The documents were supplemented
by discussions with farmers, extension agents, subject matter specialists and senior project staff
during field visits in September 1993.
2.    It is clear that in 1993, most project activities have ceased due to a lack of access to funds
for field work by project staff. This situation has persisted for at least two years and in some places
for a longer period. Extension agents still provide advice to farmers visiting their centers. Usually,
the advice concerns disease control for irrigated crops. Several nurseries continue to produce and
distribute coffee and fruit tree seedlings. Extension agents assist farmers in grafting, pruning and
spraying activities, possibly in a private capacity. Key parts of the extension program, such as, on-
farm demonstrations and agent training, have lapsed completely or are very low-level and infrequent.
3.    Comprehensive financial and monitoring data were not available from project files. MAWR
was able to provide estimates of approved and actual government project expenditure for the period
1985-1992.  Project monitoring and other reports provided only fragmentary data useful for
estimating uptake of technology and benefits from project extension activities.
B. PROJECT COSTS
Financial Costs
4.    Table 1 summarizes mission estimates of total project expenditure in the period 1985-1992.
It is estimated that total expenditure directed through this project in that period was equivalent to
about US$27.54 million. Local councils were supposed to contribute to village water supply costs
but it is not known whether these contributions were actually collected (payments for water supply
construction are in abeyance at present). Most of the other government expenditure is in the
construction category and not directly related to project activities described in the SAR. AFESD
funds were used for roads, irrigation, credit, tree nurseries and coffee and orchard establishment.
ODA disbursements are estimated on the basis of a review in late 1988 and clearly exceed those
estimated in the SAR by a large margin.



- 32  -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
5.     More detailed costs with disbursements by year are provided in Tables 1.1 - 1.5. These
tables provide general guidance on levels and areas of expenditure but are not precise. For example,
MAWR records of actual expenditure for 1990 show total expenditure of YRls29,37 1,000, whilst
the audited project accounts indicate expenditure of YRis3l,985,000 for the same period. Project
accounts have not been audited since 1990 and records for recent years may no longer be in project
files. The audit reports up to and including 1990 were heavily qualified. No data are available on
the foreign exchange position of government expenditure and it is all assumed to be local cost. For
IDA and IFAD disbursements, the local cost component is estimated on the basis of payment requests
being in Yemeni Rials.
6.     Despite frequent references to lack of local recurrent budget hindering implementation, it is
clear that government has actually spent more than originally planned, about YRls153 million,
through the project life time. Approved budget was higher than actual expenditure, totalling some
YRls206 million. The problem would appear to be that much of this government expenditure was
directed to irrigation and other construction activities and staff salaries not related to the key SAR
project activities of agricultural extension and village water supply. The AFESD disbursements have
also been quite high and have probably attracted part of the local budget away from agricultural
extension activities.
Cost Recovery
7.     Cost recovery was not a high priority in early project years. Inputs were distributed free or
at highly subsidized prices in line with general government practice at the time.   Some
'demonstrations' were in fact establishment of private commercial orchards at government expense.
This process raised farmer expectations that government should provide inputs, such as, fertilizer
or insecticides, at low prices. Indeed, the mission frequently encountered farmer criticism of the
extension service that it was no longer helpful because it could not supply inputs at prices lower than
retail shops. At present, the project only supplies fruit and coffee seedlings to farmers. Fruit tree
seedlings are sold at qualities and prices somewhat below those ruling in the private sector, while
coffee seedlings are presently distributed without charge, in line with a recent Ministerial decree.
Cost recovery for extension advice has not been attempted and is unlikely to be practicable, given
the current state of the extension system.
8.     The question of cost recovery for village water supply has not arisen or received serious
consideration. Only one scheme has been completed and is being operated by villagers without
government involvement.



- 33 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Economic Costs
9.     The mission sought to isolate those costs which were related to the benefits the mission
expects for the project. In the case of IDA and IFAD, disbursements in category 1, 3 and 4 -
vehicles and equipment, extension center construction and consultants - were all included as
economic costs. Category 2 expenditure for village water supply construction was excluded from
the analysis. All ODA expenditure was included as an economic cost because it was regarded as
essential to achievement of the agricultural benefits. These costs were adjusted to 1992 dollar values
using the MUV-G5 index and converted to YRls using shadow (1985-91) or market (1992) exchange
rates to provide economic cost streams.
10.   Much of the substantial government expenditure in the project area was clearly not related
to the project as defined in the SAR or the benefit streams described below, but it is difficult to
disaggregate or allocate such government expenditure. The decision was taken to include all
government salaries and operating costs and 10% of construction costs as economic costs related to
the project benefit streams described below.  This gave total government economic costs of
YR1s252.73 million in 1992 Rials (58% of total government costs in current Rials). The balance is
related to village water supplies, irrigation or land development, AFESD-funded roads or other
activities. In the absence of indices to inflate current Rials to 1992 Rials, current values were used
in the economic analysis. Current Rials were converted to 1992 Rials using price indices provided
by the World Bank.
11.   AFESD  funds provided much of the capital required for fruit and coffee nurseries and
establishment of private orchards through credit or grant arrangements. The individual farm models
include investments for fruit trees, fencing and other development costs valued at economic prices,
so it is not necessary to directly value AFESD inputs. However, the ready availability of these funds
clearly accelerated the uptake of coffee and fruit production which comprise a large part of the
benefits defined below. Project financial and economic prices are detailed in Tables 6 and 7, Table
8 shows the determination of some economic prices, while project economic costs are detailed in
Table 9.
C. PROJECT BENEFITS
Nature of Benefits
12.   The project coincided with a period of spontaneous well-drilling and rapid expansion of the
irrigated crop area in the Central Highlands. In 1990, the area irrigated from wells in Sana'a and
Dhamar totalled about 91,000 ha (Table 12). This project demonstrated improved techniques for
irrigated crop production which were capable of doubling existing yields in farmers' fields. The
techniques focused on better seed, more fertilizer and better pest and disease control. The project
however, had little to offer rainfed farmers except in very high rainfall zones where the techniques
used under irrigation were applicable, but produced lower yield increases.



- 34 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
13.   There is little doubt that the demonstration and other extension activities during the period
1987-1990 contributed to increased irrigated crop, especially vegetable production in the project area,
and that much of this incremental production will be maintained even if the extension activity now
ceases. There is no doubt that farmers would eventually have adopted some of the techniques,
promoted by extension activities, without the project. However, it is likely that the rate of adoption
would have been slower and the levels achieved lower than with the project. This is reflected in the
vegetable crop models used below.
14.  'A second major area in which the project achieved tangible benefits was in direct support for
expansion of coffee and fruit production. Some 180 ha of additional coffee was planted by farmers
with advice, seedlings and other inputs distributed by the project. A similar area of deciduous
orchards (peach and apple) was also established with project assistance. Project demonstrations could
also have been expected to lead to increased production from existing coffee plantations. Although
AFESD funds were critical in this process, project staff and facilities were responsible for
distribution of inputs and technical support to growers.
15.   The project also provides general plant protection advisory services to a wide range of crop
producers not covered by the four models described below. Benefits from this activity have not been
quantified.
16.   Regrettably, there have so far been negligible benefits from  the village water supply
component, except for one scheme.
Estimation of Benefits
17.   The monitoring and evaluation section of the project management unit has not conducted
surveys or otherwise assembled data which permit reliable and confident estimation of project
benefits.  The farm  management section at Dhamar studied the impact of maize and potato
demonstrations. In 1989, they concluded that for each maize demonstration implemented, about five
farmers were likely to be using the demonstrated techniques in the following year. Data are
available in progress reports on the number of demonstrations by category conducted in each year.
Fruit tree and coffee seedling distribution data are also available which support project estimates of
coffee and fruit areas established with project assistance.
18.   The mission has prepared four farm models which reflect situations in which it is believed
the project has had an impact. The main features of these models are summarized in Table 2 and
the detailed FARMOD data are available in working papers. Model 1 has some similarity to Model
3 of the SAR, Model 2 to SAR Model 5, Model 3 to SAR Model 4 and Model 4 to SAR Model 2.
Each model shows considerable financial and economic incremental benefits with project. These
benefits are mainly achieved through increased potato, tomato, coffee or fruit production. Three of
the models assume that the farmer has access to well irrigation but uses the water more productively
- - - -   - - - - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- 35 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
with project. The fourth model represents a high rainfall (2 550 mm) crop situation with minor
supplemental irrigation. All models include sorghum and wheat production activities. In financial
prices, wheat production fails to cover family labor charges at YRls60/day in all without-project
situations and produces very small surpluses above this labor charge in the project models.
Economic wheat prices calculated on the basis of World Bank commodity projections lead to higher
returns. However, this is of little interest to Yemenis who can purchase imported wheat (subsidized
by the exporters) at almost half the calculated economic price. Although project demonstrations have
led to some incremental cereal production, it is unlikely that significant economic benefits will flow.
19.   Farm distributions have been prepared as shown in Tables 3 and 4. For Models 1 and 4, the
number of adopting farms has been calculated on the basis of number of vegetable demonstrations
conducted plus five times the previous year's vegetable demonstrations. Much larger numbers of
cereal demonstrations were also implemented but these have been ignored due to the low economic
benefits they generated. The number of adopting farms were then distributed between Models 1 and
4, according to number of extension centers in very high rainfall zone (Model 4 numbers are low).
The distribution for the fruit and coffee Models 2 and 3 are based on seedling distribution records.
20.   Financial benefits have been calculated using FARMOD for each household model and
aggregated for the sub-project models and project. Household financial benefits are summarized in
Table 5. These are such that farm families can be expected to readily adopt the package, especially
where the initial investment could be financed with government assistance. Labor requirements are
within family capacity except where hired labor is customarily used, e.g. coffee harvest.
D. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Results
21.   The base estimate of the project's ERR is 17.5%. However, given the lack of quality in the
underlying data, this is not a confident estimate. Should economic costs be 20% higher and benefits
20% lower than estimated, the ERR would fall to 13%. It is unlikely that the actual ERR would be
lower than that. Net economic benefits are summarized in Table 10 and the results of the economic
analysis in Table 11.
22.   More than 40% of the benefit stream is derived from Model 3 (coffee). The area of coffee
established is known with relative confidence as are mature yields and inputs. The key factor
determining this important benefit stream is the high price of Yemeni coffee. The economic farm-
gate price of YRls 180/kg dry beans (US$3.6/kg) is about twice the ex-docks indicator price for mild
arabicas, New York or Hamburg. However, all other evidence supports the price used. Firstly,
farmers are actually receiving the quoted price from domestic traders/exporters. It is also consistent
with prices reported in detailed coffee studies in 1990, adjusted for exchange rate changes. It is
consistent with price premiums disclosed for Yemeni coffee in US import statistics and FAO trade
statistics. In short, coffee production in the appropriate parts of Yemen is a very profitable activity



- 36 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
and the project has supported the expansion of coffee. Project staff reported that coffee is now more
than competitive with qat in appropriate locations.
23.    A further 36%  of the benefit stream  is derived from  Model 1 (irrigated vegetables).
Agricultural statistics indicate that vegetable production in Sana'a and Dhamar has doubled in the
period 1988-1992 but also indicate that this is due to area expansion rather than yield increase (Table
13). The model assumes yield increases about half of those measured in project demonstrations in
1988 and 1989. The farm distributions suggest that about 3,000 farmers (excluding fruit and coffee
farmers) have adopted improved production techniques from a total population of more than 20,000
farmers with irrigation. These seem reasonable assumptions but they are not supported by good field
evidence. The impression of the mission is that the estimated vegetable benefits are of the right
order of magnitude.
Discussion
24.    How is it that a project generally perceived to have failed can yield an acceptable or better
ERR? Would the increased coffee, fruit and vegetable production have occurred even without the
project?
25.    One difficulty with this analysis is that the project management unit assumed responsibility
for many activities not covered in the SAR and financed from both Government and other sources,
including AFESD. Some of these were covered in the AFESD credit agreement but the project also
seems to have acted as an ad hoc irrigation and land developer at times. The project has also
suffered from inept financial, personnel and documentation management for much of its life. These
activities and management practices have reduced the reputation of the project in the eyes of MAWR
management and precipitated the current paralysis. Only a part of project resources has been focused
on agricultural extension which can be claimed to have led to a significant production impact. In
particular, there have been few benefits for poorer, dryland farmers. Furthermore, the village water
supply component has failed. Nevertheless, it would appear that the effective demonstration and
horticultural expansion activities between 1986 and 1990 have produced an acceptable return in
relation to their costs.
26.   It is clear that farmers would have increased horticultural production and efficiency in the
absence of this project. However, the model allows for such increases and still generates acceptable
rates of return. There is no documentary evidence of the performance of farmers with- and without-
project assistance and the size of the gap between the two must remain a matter of opinion. More
important issues may be whether the project could have achieved similar or better results using fewer
resources and whether the distribution of the benefits could have been widened? These issues are
inter-related.



- 37 -
YEMEN: Central Hiighlands Agricultural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
27.    When the original SAR economic analysis is disaggregated by farm model, it is clear that
Model 1 - rainfed farming - was expected to yield negligible economic benefits, even though it
applied to 4,000 farm households (half the total households). Most of the SAR benefits were
predicted to come from irrigated horticultural production, as has occurred in practice. And yet,
project resources were not concentrated on irrigated or horticultural production. Perhaps, this
reflected a desire to widen access to benefits but, if so, that desire was not explicit. It seems likely
that many of the benefits achieved could have been gained without establishment of such an extensive
network of block and extension centers. Many of the effective demonstrations and nursery seedling
distribution programs were organized from Sana'a and Risabah. There is evidence that the benefits
continue to flow even though most of the demonstrations were completed before centers were
constructed and many of the centers have been inactive since their establishment. There is no
continuing development of new technology apparent to justify further investment in the maintenance
of a large conventional extension system in the area. The plant protection advisory services which
are critical for horticulture could, at least in part, be provided through training of retailers of
agricultural chemicals and specialized groups. However, this strategy would have to be linked to
an education program in integrated pest management.
Conclusions
28.    Although the data are poor and many somewhat arbitrary assumptions have had to be made,
the mission concludes that the agricultural activities within this project are likely to have earned an
ERR of about 17.5 %.  This is largely on the basis of expanded and improved horticultural
production which would not have reached the estimated levels without technical inputs from this
project. It is most unlikely, even given pessimistic assumptions, that the ERR is below 13%. The
availability of reliable monitoring data would have permitted more confident estimates of ERR. It
seems likely that better focusing of project resources on high benefit activities could have produced
similar benefits using fewer resources.



YEMEN   Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1:  Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 1.   Estimate of Total Project Expenditure (1985-1992)
Government                           IDA               IFAD                     ODA                           Local Council                Total s,
Category                               YR                 USS                USS                USS             £ Ster.              USS                 YR              USS             USS
_____________________  '000  | million          million            million            million            million              '000          million         million
Vehicles & Equipment                14.640                                  0.480              0.275                                                     -                              1.243
Water Supply                          3,207 Z'                              1.355              0.783                                                     ?                ?             2.245
Extension Centres                    12,312 1'                              1.947              0.789                                  -                 -                               3.146
Consultants                                                                 2.784              1.771             2.249              3 940 '                                             8.145
Salaries                            62.745                                                                                            -                  - -                            2.091
Operating Costs                     20.902                                                                                               .,                                             0.697
Other                               39.377                                  0.540                                                                                                       7.019
Total                              153,183               14.820             7.196              3.618              2.0               3.940                ?                ?            29.570
Y       Converted at averagc annual official exchange rate.
l>      Estimated at 5% of total IDA and IFAD disbursements.
"'      Estimated at 15% of total IDA and IFAD disbursements.
"'      An unknown part of this amount was used to supplement operating costs and provide vehicles and equipment to advisers and counterpart staff.
I'      The AFESD disbursenents (Table 1.4) totallcd USS5.166 million, lifting total CHRDP costs to USS34.74 million.



YEMEN:  Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1:  Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 1.1 Summary of Government Expenditure, 1985-1992 (YR '000)
yaw                   Scla.                       0    "ng                      c                               Equiippe                   Fwnib-                 V,4hks                     La,d                     Total            Actul
Cmoat                                                                                                                                  Porh.,.                                     Totw
ussi
App~.d         ACWa         Apprd            Ac|al         Approd            A|t.          Appowd           Ac|ua       Appoed   Ac|ua    Appred            Actul    Appawd         Act|         Apprd         Ato
1985           5,200         5.101          1,481          1,162           1.250             84             .                                                 250          48                                    8.181       6,395     0 997
196e           6,208         6.192          1.700          1,700             818             -              soo                                                                                                  9,026       799         085 
1987           6,.20         6.300          1.785          1.785           8000             569             600            170                                 -           -                        -            16,685      8.824     0 981
1se8           9.200         9.046          3.770          2,451          18.000          16,093           968             917                                250         646          750         247          32.938      29.400    3 030
1989           9.450         7 430          4.020          2,471           16.000          7.773          1,00             901          5oo        250                               3.000                      33.970      18,825     1 92
1990           9.450         9,29i          4.020          3.847           15,610         14.804          1.389           1 3-9                                                      3.000         40           33,469      29.371     2485
1991           9.450         8.350          4.020          2,882           14.DOO          8.967          5,ooo           3,716                                                      3,000         203          35.470      24,118     1993
1992          16000          11.035         7,000          4.604           7.290           5,865          6.561           6,853                                                        -            -           36,851      28,357     2 343
TOTAL YR       71.258        82745          27.796         20.902          80,78          54,155          16,018         13,946         s0         280        500          94        8,170         49          2.8          153,183    14.820
Average annual official exchange rate applied.
v    Audited Project Accounts show  1990 actual Government expenditure at YR31.985.000 compared to YR29.371.000 above.



YEMEN: Central Higrlands Rura, Development Project
Arnex 1   F^nanc al and Econcm-c Assessment of th'e Central HigrTands Pro,O-ct
Project Completion Report
Table 1.2   IDA Disbursements (US$ equivalents)
Category                   1985              1986              1987              1988              1989             1990              1991              1992            Total
1                      50.386             6.140          128.280             6.696          225.353             39.834           23.189               -            479.378
2.                      6.736            16.043              -                  -                -             364.504           967.523                         1,354.806
3.                        -                                  -             881.931          347,45d            388,102           329.650              -          1.947.136
4.                    363.866         1,026,388           98.452           476.342          482.439            215.091            81.158          130.104        2.873.8501
Fund                        -                -              508.495              -           (-77.925)              -                 -          (-130,104)          300.466
PPF Refund              239,179              -                 --                                                   -                 -                 -            239.179
(P 275)
Total                   660,167         1,048,571           735,227        1.364.969           977.321         1,007.531         1,401.520              0          7.195.315
CUMULATIVE              660.167         1,708.738        2.443.965         3.808.934         4.786.255         5.793.786         7.195.315        7.195.315              -
TOTAL
Columns may not add due to rounding



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1. Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 1.3    IFAD Disbursements (USS equivalents)
Category                   1985             1986              1987             1988              1989             1990              1991             1992            Total
1.                         -              2.972           71.994               -             104.822           16.838            11.834           66.660          274.670
2.                                        4.604               -                -                 -            179.532           476.541          122.745          783.422
3.                         -                -              8.858           432.347           156.318          134.175            57.754              -            789.452
4.                     181,779          509.570          284,920           233.740           213.456          103.415           202.338           41,358        1.770.576
TOTAL                   181.779          512.542          365.772           666.087          474.596           254.428           271.476          108,018        2,834,698       l
Cunulative              181.779          694.321        1.060.093         1.726.180        2.200.776         2.455.204        2,726.680         2.834,698
Total
U   Soe disbursements made in 1993.



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1:  Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 1.4    ODA and AFESD Estimated Disbursement
1985            1986             1987             1988            1989           1990           1991   |    1992            Total
1. Oas
£ sterling million  "                0.288            0.172            0.511            0.621           0.565          0.152                         -             2.249
USS equivalent  "                    0.504            0.301            0.894             1.087          0.988          0.266            -            -             4.041
Cu ulative total                     0.504            0.805            1.699            2.780           3.774          3.574            -            -
(USS million)
2. AFESD
Kuwaiti Dinar                                                                                                                                                 1.722.255 t        
USS equivalent million                                                                                                                                             5.166
Estimated on basis of incomplete data.
2   Weighted average exchange rate of £1 - USS1.75 applied.
Actual disbursement to February 1993.  No other data available.                                                                                                               X
m >t7



- 43 -                                                       ANNEX 1
Table 2
YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central H4ighlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 2.  Farm  Model Characteristics
Model              Farm  Area                Irrigated Area                  Main Crops and
(ha)                        (ha)                          Livestock
l                   4.0                          1.2               Cereals, alfalfa, potato, tomato,
cattle, sheep.
2                   4.0                          1.2                Cereals, alfalfa, apple, peach,
cattle, sheep.
3                    1.5                         1.5                Cereals, coffee, tomato, potato.
4                   2.0                          0.4                Cereals, potato, tomato, cattle,
sheep.
"    Detailed cropping pattems available in FARMOD tables.



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 3.   Calculation of Farm Distributions According to Project Demonstrations
Model                             1985                1986               1987               1988                1989               1990               1991               Total
1.  HIRV
Number vegetable                    0                  45                 89                 78                 112                121                  30                 -
demonstrations
Farms adopting                      0                 45                 314                523                 502                681                635                2.700
2.  HIRF
Demonstration orchards              0                  11                 11                 31                  64                 40                 40                  -
established (ha)
Number of farms                     0                 53                  53                153                 320                200                200                  979
3.  iWJ RR. CO                                                                                                                                                                            41
Demonstration coffee                0                 29                  80                 13                  29                  30                 -                  -
plantations established
(ha)
Farms adopting                      0                145                 400                 65                 145                150                  -                  905
4. ESTERRI
Number vegetable                    0                   5"                10                  9                  13                 13                 4                   -
demonstrations
Farms adopting                      0                  5                  35                 59                  58                 78                 69                  304
"   Estimated.



- 45 -                                                                       ANEX 
Table 4
YEMEN: Ccntral Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 4. Farm Distributions
Without        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5          Year 6         Years
Project                                                                                              7 to 20
1 to 20
NUMBER OF FARMS
Non-Parttclpattng
Model 1                     2,700         2.700         2,655         2,341         1,816           1,316            635             -
Irngatedegeteblb
Model 2                       979           926           973           720          400             200               -
ImgatedfruJil
Mode 3                        905           760           360           295           150             -                -
lmgated/Cotfea
Model 4                       304           304           299           264          205             147              69             -
High Rain Crop
Participa8ng
Model 1                        -                           45           359           882           1.384          2.065          2,700
ImgattedNegetabe
Model 2                                      53           106           259           579            779             979            979
Imgated/Fruni
Model 3                        -            145           545           610           755            905             905            905
Inigated/Cof1ee
Model 4                        -             -              5            40            99            157             235            304
H,gh Rami Crop
TOTAL                       4.6U                                                                                                  4,tt8tt



-  46-                                                 ANNEX  1
Table 5
YEMEN: Ceniral Highlands Rwal Developnment Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 5. Household Financial Benefits
(YR and YR/day)
Model                 Net Family Benefits                           Family Labour
Berore Financing                                Return
Without       r        With                Without                With
Project              Project               ProJect              ProJect
I              65,000                97,000                 150                   220
2               65,000               115,000                 150                  250
3               79,000              202,000                 200                   500
4               46,500               69,300                  125                  185
Detailed data are available in FARMOD tables (Working Paper 1). Benefits are rounded to reflect annual
avCrages.



- 47 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Develyment Project
Annex 1: Ftnancial and Economic Assemcnt of the Central Highlands Project               ANNEX  1
Project Compktion Report                                         Table  6
Table 6.  ProJect Financial Prices                                  (Page 1)
(In Rials)                                                 January-Oecember
Unit         1992to20tt
Outputs
Livestock
Milk                                        litre                     15
Ghee                                        litre                   150
Cheese                                       kg                     120
Buttermilk /a                              litre                    13.5
Manure                                       kg                      0 5
Calf 37kg                                  each                    8.000
Yearling 80kg                               each                  11.500
Cull cows                                  each                   30.000
Cull oxen                                  each                   30.000
Lamb(14Kg.)                                each                    1.500
Kid (1 1Kg.)                               each                    1.000
Fattened Lamb(23kg)                        each                    3.000
Fattened kid(20kg)                         each                    2,500
Cull ewes/males                            each                    3.000
Cult does/males                            each                    2.000
Grain
Cowpea                                       kg                        7
Sorghum                                      kg                        7
Baladi wheat                                kg                        7
Sonalika wheat                              kg                        6
Maize                                        kg                      85 
Barley                                      kg                        7
Millet                                      kg                         5
Pulses                                      kg                       1 5
Bananas                                     kg                        8
Fodders lb
Sesame                                      kg                       25
Vetch                                       kg                       1.5
Berseem                                     kg                       1.5
Sorghum green                               kg                       1.5
Sorghum hay/c                               kg                        3
Sorghum stover                              k                          1
Napier grass                               kh                          1
Alfalfa green                               kg                       2.5
Barley green                                kg                       1 .5
Straw                                       kg                         I
Maize stover                                kg                         1
Tropical legume fodder                      kg                       1 .5
Horticulture
Apples                                      Kg                        35
Peaches                                     Kg                       30
Coffee Id                                   Kg                      180
Tomato                                      Kg                        6
Potato                                      Kg                        10
Inputs
equipment
butter churn                               each                    1.000
troughs                                    each                    1 .000
Improved housing                          per head                   25
fodder processing
fodder chopping                             kg                       0.1
Seeds
Cowpea seed                                  kg                        7
Millet seed                                  kg                        5
Sorghum seed                                kg                         7
Maize seed                                   kg                      8.5
Alfalfa seed                                 kg                      100
Napier slips                                1000                    100



- 48 -
YEMEN: Central Flighlands Rural Development Project
Anner 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project                ANNEX  1
Project Completion Report                                           Table  6
Table 6.  Project Financial Prices                                  (Page 2)
Vetch seed                                  kg                       20
Tropical legume seed                        kg                       30
Tree legume seed                            kg                      200
Berseem seed                                kg                      100
Oat seed                                    kg                        7
Tomato                                      kg                      500
Sesame seed                                 kg                       25
Wheat seed (Baladi)                         kg                        7
Wheat seed (Sonalika)                       kg                        6
Barley seed                                 kg                        7
Pulse seed                                  kg                       20
Potato seed                                 kg                       10
Potato clean seed                           kg                       20
Coffee seedling                             ea.                       3
Apple seedling                              ea.                      70
Peach seedlings                             kg                       60
Windbreak seedling                          ea.                       5
Orchard tencing                            metre                    250
Other crop inputs
Water                                       m3                        I
Tractor cultivation                         hr                      150
Field bunding                               ha                      260
Bags                                       each                       7
Insecticide                                Litre                    900
Oxen cultivation                            day                     400
Fungicide                                   kg.                   1.200
boxes                                       kg                      0 5
Transport                                   kg                      0 7
Fertiliser
Urea                                        kg                        9
TSP                                         kg                        9
Animal health
Mature cattle health care                lreatlent                   10
Immature cattle health care              treatm4nt                    5
Mature shoats health care                treatment                    2
Immature shoats health care              treatment                    1
Feed supplements
Meat and bonemeal                           kg                     17.3
Imported phosphorus                         kg                       15
Wheat bran                                  kg                       3.5
Soybean meal                                kg                       15
Breeding fee
Bull service                               each                     300
Labor
Female labtour                             personday                   60
Male labour                                personday                   60
Herding labour                             personday                   50
Hired labour                               personday                  '50
\a Buttermilk remaining after ghee production is soured and consumed within the household.
\b All fodder prices are per kg as fed, not adjusted for dry matter content.
Ic Farmers sell green sorghum which is stored by traders and sold dry at a higher price per kg.
\d Dry Beans and reflecting very high premium persistently received in world markets for Yemeni coffee.



- 49 -
YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project            ANNEX  1
Project Completion Report                                        Table  7
Table 7.  ProJect Economic Prices                                 (Page 1)
(In Rials)                                               January-December
Unit        1992 to 2011
Outputs
Livestock
Milk                                      litre                    15
Ghee                                      litre                   150
Cheese                                     kg                     120
Buttermilk /a                             litre                   13.5
Manure                                     kg                      0.5
Calf 37kg                                 each                   8.000
Yearling 80kg                             each                  1 1500
Cull cows                                 each                  30,000
Cull oxen                                 each                  30.000
Lamb(l4Kg.)                               each                   1,500
Kid(IlIKg.)                               each                   1.000
Fattened Lamb(23kg)                       each                   3.000
Fattened kid(20kg)                        each                  2.500
Cull ewes/males                           each                   3,000
Cull does/males                           each                   2.000
Grain
Cowpea                                     kg                       7
Sorghum                                    kg                      7.7
Baladi wheat                               kg                    11.55
Sonalika wheat                             kg                    10 56
Maize                                      kg                     7.99
Barley                                     kg                       7
Millet                                     kg                       5
Pulses                                     kg                      15
Bananas                                    kg                       8
Fodders /b
Sesame                                     kg                      25
Vetch                                      kg                      1.5
Berseem                                    kg                      1.5
Sorghum green                              kg                      1 5
Sorghum hay /c                             Fg                       3
Sorghum stover                             Ig                       1
Napier grass                               kb                       1
Alfalfa green                              kg                      2.5
Barley green                               kg                      1.5
Straw                                      kg                       1
Maize stover                               kg                        I
Tropical legume fodder                     kg                      1.5
Horticulture
Apples                                     Kg                      35
Peaches                                    Kg                      30
Coffee /d                                  Kg                     180
Tomato                                     Kg                       6
Potato                                     Kg                      10
Inputs
equipment
butter churn                              each                   1,000
troughs                                   each                   1 000
Improved housing                        per head                   25
fodder processing
fodder chopping                            kg                      0.1
Seeds
Cowpea seed                                kg                       7
Millet seed                                kg                       S
Sorghum seed                               kg                      7 7
Maize seed                                 kg                     7 99
Alfalfa seed                               kg                     100
Napier slips                              1000                    100



- 50-
YEMEN: Central Flighlands Rural Development Project
Annecx 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project            ANNEX  1
Project Completion Report                                        Table  7
Table 7.  Project Economic Prices                                   (Page 2)
Vetch seed                                  kg                       20
Tropical legume seed                        kg                       30
Tree legume seed                            kg                      200
Berseem seed                                kg                      100
Oat seed                                    kg                        7
Tomato                                      kg                      500
Sesame seed                                 kg                       25
Wheat seed (Baladi)                         kg                    11.55
Wheat seed (Sonalika)                       kg                    10.56
Barley seed                                 kg                        7
Pulse seed                                  kg                       20
Potato seed                                 kg                       10
Potato clean seed                           kg                       20
Coffee seedling                             ea.                    5.01
Apple seedling                              ea.                      70
Peach seedlings                             kg                       60
Windbreak seedling                          ea                        5
Orchard fencing                            metre                    250
Other crop inputs
Water                                       m3                       1 5
Tractor cultivation                         hr                      225
Field bunding                               ha                      260
Bags                                       each                       7
Insecticide                                Litre                    900
Oxen cultivation                            day                     400
Fungicide                                   kg.                   1.200
boxes                                       kg                      0.5
Transport                                   kg                      0.7
Fertiliser
Urea                                        kg                      8.1
TSP                                         kg                     9.54
Animal health
Mature cattle health care                treatment                   10
immature cattle health care              treatment                    5
Mature shoats health care                treatment                    2
Immature shoats health care              treatment                    1
Feed supplements
Meat and bonemeal                           kg                   18.338
Imported phosphorus                         kg                       15
Wheat bran                                  kg                      3.5
Soybean meal                                kg                       15
Breeding fee
Bull service                               each                     300
Labor
Female labour                              personday                   60
Male labour                                personday                   60
Herding labour                             personday                   50
Hired labour                               personday                  150
\a Buttermilk remaining after ghee production is soured and consumed within the household.
\b All fodder prices are per kg as fed, not adjusted for dry matter content.
\c Farmers sell green sorghum which is stored by traders and solddry at a higher price per kg.
id Ory Beans and renecting very high premium persistently received in world markets for Yemeni coffee.



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 8.   Estimation of Economic Prices for Grain and Fertilizer (YR 1992)
Sorghum"                              Wheat                                Urea "                                 TSP
1993             2000               1993               2000              1993               2000               1993              2000
Price in 1992 USS                    99              109                160                176                116               153                113               133
Freight and insurance                 50               50                 50                 50                 25                25                 50                50
Cost c.i.f Hodeidah                  149              159                210                226                141               178                163               183
Cost YR: YR47 - USS1               7.003            7.473                987             10.622              6.627             8.366              7.661             8.601
Port charges and bagging             500              500                500                500                250               250                500               500
Transport to Sana 'a                 400              400                400                400               400                400                400               400
Price at market                   7.903             8.373             10.770             11.522             7.277              9.016              8.561             8.501              U'
Transport farm/market                200              200                200                200               900                900                900               900
(Distributor                         (Distributor
margins)                             margins)
Economic Farm Gate:
- Price YR/ton                    7.703             8.173             10.570            11.322              8.177              9.916              9.461             9.401
- Price YR/kg                          7.7              8.2               10.6               11.3               8.2                9.9                9.5               9.4
Maize prices are estimated as sorghum + 3S.
L   Delivered by road ex-Saudi Arabia.
WB Comnodities Projections.  March 1993.
X   4



YEMEN:  Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 9.  Calailation of Economic Cost of Project (YR 1992)                                                     (Page 1)
1985             1986                1987               1988               1989               1990              1991              1992
1. IDA Disbursements
Category 1+3+4
Current USS                           414.252         1.032.528            226.732          1.364.969          1.055.246            643.027           433.997           130.104
Convert to 1992 S                       1.554             1.318              1.200              1.119              1.126              1.066             1.044             1.000
1992 S                                643.747         1.360.872            272.078          1.527.400          1.188.207            685.467           453.093           130.104
Convert to YR official                  6.500             7.250              9.000              9.750              9.750             12.000                -                -
rate 0
Market rate YR/USl.0                                        -                  -                   -                  -                  -                  25               30
Conversion factor                       1.250             1.400              1.400              1.500              1.500              1.500                -                -
Shadow rate + official
rate
.S Shadow rate. YR/USS                  8.125            10.150             12.600             14.625             14.625             18.000                -                -           Ln
Estimate of economic cost               5.230            13.810              3.430             22.340             17.380             12.340            11.330             3.900
of IDA disburse-ments.
Cut 1+3+4 in 1992 YR
million
2. IFAD Disbursement
Category 1+3+4
Current USS                           181.779           512.542            365.772            666.087            474,596            254,428           271.476           108.018
Convert to 1992 USS                     1.554             1.318              1.200              1.119              1.126              1.066             1.044             1.000
1992 $                                282.484          675.530             438.926            745.351            531.017            271.220           283.421           108,018
Convert to YR official                  6.500             7.250              9.000              9.750              9.750             12.000                -                -
rate "
Market rate YR/USS1.0                                                 -                           -                  -                  -                  25                30
Shadow rate CF                          1.250             1.400              1.400              1.500              1.500              1.500
YR/USS1.0                               8.125            10.150             12.600             14.625             14.625             18.000               -                 -
Estimate of Economic Cost               2.300             6.860              5.530             10.900              7.766              4.880             7.086             3.240
of IFA) Disbursements
Category 1+3+4 in 1992 YR
million
"   Average from IFAD disbursement records.                                                                                                                                     %O I-



YEMEN:  Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 9.  Calculation of Economic Cost of Project (YR 1992)                                                     (Page 2)
1985             1986               1987                1988               1989               1990              1991              1992
3. ODA Disbursement
(Total)
Percent                                   -                  10                 25                 35                 30
US$ million                             0.504             0.301              0.894              0.621              0.988              0.266                  -
Convert to 1992 S MUV                   1.554             1.318              1.200              1.119              1.126              1 066                  -               -
1992 USS million                        0.783             0.397              1.073              0.695              1.112              0 283                  -
Exchange rate USS/YR                    6 500             7.250              9.000              9.750              9.750             12.000                  -              -
C.F.                                    1.250             1.400              1.400              1.500              1 500              1.500                  -               -
Economic Cost YR million                6.362             4.030             13.520             10.164             16.263              5.094                  -               -
(1992 YR)
4. ROY Expenditure
(YR million, current)
Salaries (all)                          5.100             6.200              6.300              9.000              7.400              9.300             8.300            11 000
Operating costs (all)                   1.200             1.700              1.800              2.500              2.500              3.800             2.900             4.600
Construction (10X)                         0                 0                   0              1.600              0.800              1 500             0.900             0.600
Total Current Rial                      6.300             7.900              8.100             13.100             10.700             14.600            12.100            16.200
(million)
Conversion to 1992 Rials                6.200             4.800              4.000              3.500              2.900              2.200             1.500                -
(million)
Economic Cost (1992 YR                 39.060            37.920             32 400             45.850             31.030             32.120            18.050            16 200
million)
TOTAL PROJECT ECONOMIC                 52.952            62.620             54.880             89.250             72.410             54.430            36.560            23.340
COSTS IN 1992 YR
(million)
cr z



-  54                                                   ANNEX  1
Table 10
YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Dcvelopment Project
Aniex I: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Ccntral Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 10. Net Economic Benefit by SAR Models
(YR million)
Model         Incremental           Incremental               Net            Number        Source of
Economic             Production            Economic             of          Benefits
Benefits               Costs               Benefits          Farms
8.16                  7.6                  0.56             4,000         Higher
grain yields
2              14.05                  5.52                 8.53             2,300        + Vege-
tables
3               9.00                  1.17                 7.83             1,000        + Vege-
tables and
alfalfa
4               7.8                   2.72                 5.08               600        Coffee +
citrus
5               7.53                  2.72                 4.81               125         Grapes
6               6.25                  1.58                 4.67               200       Citrus and
vegetables
TOTAL            52.80                  19.29                33.51            8,325



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Tabte 11.   Economic Analysis (YR miltion)                                                            (Page 1)
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --.
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000  ;2001   2002   2003
Economic Benefits
CH Irrigated Fruit         -4.0   -5.7  -15.0  -28.6  -22.4  -17.3   -5.5    7.8   30.8   43.2   52.6   43.8   42.5   48.8   50.9   52.6   43.8   42.5   48.8
CH Irrigated Vegetables        -   -1.1   -7.4  -12.4   -6.7  -12.7  -25.0  -17.7   20.7   25.1   58.6   43.8   71.9   96.3   95.1  100.0   77.6   79.0   96.3
Wadi Irrigated Coffee      -1.3   -9.6   -1.2    2.1    1.3   31.2   64.3   81.2  101.8  110.3  110.3  11b.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3  110.3
Escarpnent Cropping            -   -0.0   -0.2   -0.8   -0.6   -1.1   -0.3    0.1    1.6    2.0    4.1    4.6    6.4    6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9
Total Benefits             -5.3  -16.4  -23.8  -39.7  -28.4    0.1   33.5   71.4  154.9  180.6  225.6  202.5  231.1  262.3  263.2  269.8  238.6  238.7  262.3
Investment Costs                                                                                                                                                                 Un
IDA                         5.2   13.8    3.4   22.3   17.4   12.3   11.3    3.9         -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -
IFAD                        2.3    6.9    5.5   10.9    7.8    4.9    7.1    3.2         -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -
ODA                         6.4    4.0   13.5   10.2   16.3    5.1         -      -              -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
Government Contribution   39.1   37.9   32.4   45.8 e 31.0   32.1   18.1   16.2    7.0   25.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   25.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
Total Economic Costs       52.9   62.6   54.9   89.2   72.4   54.4   36.6   23.4    7.0   25.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   25.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
Net Economic Bnefits
wet Benefits              -58.2  -79.1  -78.7 -128.9 -100.8  -54.3   -3.1   48.0  147.9  155.6  218.6  195.5  224.1  255.3  238.2  262.8  231.6  231.7  255.3
Net Benefit:  IRR  =  17-5%
D D



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
AnneA 1:  Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 11-  Econcmic Analysis (YR million)                                                           (Page 2)
Present Values of Net Streams at a Oiscount Rate of 12.0%
BENTOT    UP 10%   lJP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
CTor     204.9      257.0     309.1     465.4      152.8     100.7      -55.6
UP 10%     173.3      225.4     277.5      433.8     121.2      69.1      -87.2                                       Switching Values at  12.0%
UP 20%     141.7      193.8     245.9      402.2      89.6      37.5    -118.8
UP 50%      46.9       99.0     151.1      307.4      -5.2      -57.3    -213.6                                        Appraisal      Switching      Percentage
DOWN 10X     236.5      288.6     340.7      497.0     184.4      132.3     -24.0                       Stream             Value          Value          Change
DOWN 20%     268.1      320.2     372.3      528.6     216.0      163.9       7.6
DOWN 50%     363.0      415.1     467.2      623.5     310.9      258.8     102.5                       BENTOT               521.0         316.1          -39.3%
BENTOT     LAG 1      LAG 2     LAG 3                                                      cTor                 316.1         521.0           64.8%
CTOT     204.9      149.1      99.2       54.7
UP 10%     173.3      117.5      67.6       23.1                                                     Net Present Value at OCC   12.0% = 204.9
UP 20%     141.7       85.9      36.0       -8.5                                                      Internal Rate of Return = 17.5%
UP 50%      46.9       -9.0     -58.8    -103.3                                                      Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 21.4%                       n
DOWN 10%     236.5      180.7     130.9       86.4                                                                                                                   ON
DOWN 20%     268.1      212.3     162.5      118.0
DOWN 50%     363.0      307.1     257.3      212.8                                                                                                                    1
LAG 1         -      183.0     133.1      88.6
LAG 2         -                163.4      11 9
LAG 3                                     145.9
Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
BENTOT    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
CTOT    17.455    18.474    19.396    21.714    16.319    15.039        9.854
UP 10%    16.428    17.455    18.386    20.732    15.284    13.996        8.792
UP 20%    15.484    16.518    17.455    19.825    14.333    13.040        7.820
UP 50%    13.040    14.087    15.039    17.455    11.877    10.572        5.311
DOWN 10%    18.581    19.589    20.499    22.782    17.455    16.185    11.025
DOWN 20%    19.825    20.818    21.714    23.951    18.713    17.455    12.328
DOWN 50%    24.580    25.493    26.308    28.308    23.549    22.370    17.455
BENTOT     LAG 1      LAG 2     LAG 3
CTOT    17.455    15.865    14.515    13.361
UP 10%    16.428    14.917    13.639    12.549
UP 20%    15.484    14.048    12.837    11.807                                                                                                                   D7
UP 50%    13.040    11.808    10.777       9.903                                                                                                                    tiz
DOWN 10%    18.581    16.908    15.481    14.258
DOWN 20%    19.825    18.066    16.558    15.259
DOWN 50%    24.580    22.569    20.787    19.221
LAG I         -    17.455    15.865    14.515
LAG 2                    -    17.455    15.865
LAG 3         -          -         -    17.455



-  57-                                                  ANNEX  1
Table  12
YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 12. Land Use in Project Governorates, 1990
Number                Total             Cultivated        Areas Irrigated
of                 Area                 Area             from Wells
Holdings               (ha)                (ha)                 (ha)
Sana'a                   146,826              380,726             240,392               68,005
Dharnar                   65,432              138,220              97,925               23,296
Total                    212,258              518,946              338,317              91,301
Source: MAWR, Agricultural Statistics Yearbook, 1990.



YEMEN: Central Highlands Rural Development Project
Annex 1:  Financial and Economic Assessment of the Central Highlands Project
Project Completion Report
Table 13.  Crop Productivity in Project Governorates (1988-92)
1988                1989                  1990                   1991                  1992               Increase
___________________________________________________________________________   I                                  1988-92  CX)
1. Cereals
a) Sana'a
Area                       ha  000             193                 191                   189                   162                   192                    0
Production                 MT  000            241                  240                   210                    82                   193                   -20
Yield                        t/ha             1.2                  1.3                   1.1                   0.5                   1.0                    -
b) Dhamar
Area                       ha  000             67                   84                    83                    61                    64                    -4
Production                 MT '000             68                   97                    96                    59                    97                   +43
Yield                        t/ha             1.0                  1.2                   1.2                   1.0                   1.5                    -
2. Vegetables
a) Sana'a                                                                                                                                                                     cn
Area                       ha  000            3.1                  3.5                   3.7                   4.8                   6.1                   +97                 co
Production                 MT  000            55.8                60.1                  57.5                   67.8                  86.6                  +55                 l
Yield                        t/ha             17.8                17.2                  15.6                   14.2                  14.3                   -
b) Dhamar
Area                       ha '000            1.0                  3.3                   3.7                   3.8                   4.2                   +320
Production                 MT  000            16.7                50.4                  52.2                   52.7                 58.4                   +256
Yield                        t/ha             16.9                15.2                  14.1                   14.1                  14.0                   -
3. Fruit
a) Sana'a
Area                       ha  000            15.9                16.5                   17.5                  17.8                  18.7                  +18
Production                 MT  000            130                  133                   133                   124                   130                    0
Yield                        t/ha             8.2                 8.0                    7.6                   6.9                   6.9                    -
b) Dhamar
Area                       ha  000            0.4                  0.6                   0.6                   0.6                   0.6                   +50
Production                 MT  000            2.0                  2.7                   2.9                   3.1                   3.0                   +50
Yield                        t/ha             5.2                 4.9                    5.1                   5.1                   5.2                    -
Source:  MAWR Agricultural Statistics 1988-1992.
Lo



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix I
Comments on SAR Economic Analysis
1.   It has been difficult to assess the SAR economic analysis during this PCR because the data
provided in the SAR is limited. There is no specific list of working documents in Annex 2 of
the SAR and if economic working papers exist, they were not available during the mission.
Economic prices used in the analysis only differ from financial prices for cereals, coffee and
citrus and the official exchange rate of US$1 = YR4.5 is used for all calculations without
comment. The preparation report of 1983 similarly regarded the official rate as a good indicator
of the true value of foreign exchange. This may have been a reasonable judgement at the time
but was clearly inappropriate before project completion.
2.    The cropping patterns for Models 3 and 4 in Table 11 - Farm Models, do not correspond
with the financial budgets for those models in Tables 13-18. The financial models were taken
as accurate and roughly re-worked using the SAR economic prices. The SAR (footnotes to
Tables 21 and 22) indicates that irrigation water was not included as a cost in economic analysis.
The reason for this omission is not clear.
3.    Disaggregation of the SAR economic benefits suggests that Model I - 4,000 rainfed farms
- yields a net economic benefit of about YRO.6 million, out of total net benefits of YR33.5
million (8,325 farms). Most of the benefits come from incremental horticultural production in
the other five models. This important outcome of the SAR economic analysis does not seem to
be reflected in project design or implementation and is not acknowledged in the discussion of
economic rates of return.
4.    The SAR estimate of incremental project operating costs (deduced by difference, after
estimating incremental farm production costs), appears to be about YR3.5 million per year (1984
prices). This proved to be an underestimate. First year project expenditure for salaries and
operating costs alone was YR6.4 million and total annual Government expenditure peaked at
YR29.3 million in 1990.
5.    The major criticism which can reasonably be levelled at the SAR economic analysis is that
it identified areas of high economic return (horticulture) and low economic return (cereals,
especially rainfed) but failed to influence project resource allocation in accordance with that
analysis. Nor did it argue for the chosen resource allocation on distributional grounds.












IBRD 17321
.uGUST 1993
44'
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
S ALiD      A RA b  A
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT  DISTRICTS
u N Y!MERsEFI w..,s                DS4 /                r                        .     .           :    R ProtIect area
Protect distr-ct bicndories
0~~~~~~               ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                 - (    Pound Roods ..naer Construction
@           z   ~    ~ ~~(  >    IA  rX r   A   HOther Roads
4\   2                                                                ® 69  Natiorv  Captals
WadisI
4.\  Main Ports
\   ,c)          \                                                  4   Inlern-otonal Ainpotts
\ j )                \                                                     N  Provinciol Boundaries
- |  - Intern-atonol Boundories
H   A    J  J  A                                                                      c       tC       tMETIS
A-iob                                                   MiLES
Luciano r                             c * c   |v         A  N    'A
r (l   Allolwoh   Ho a  ___lan          2                M  A  R I B
l,jod.AWAl                                   lb             n  
~~v,cr        AFahe\ r2,            0oo t yrcc/~
-Sat                                    7B              D              A
H    DweEID A                                                                                         ,orK      lolb  0 
\          \A  dowo~~~~   Mbb bdo                                   lds
...A       I                       ~   ;.z|boj    c   
t   ; > ; 4    __>        >  ~~PEOPLE' S  DEMOCRA1 C  REPUBLIC   OF  YEMEN
C,~~~~~oc
n      b S bo            
/             DDEN
E T Hl 1 0 P I AC.
X                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~G&Yf  OFr  .4-,'
.D     d_---T
/~~~~~~~~~i Kcuan                                           _n~  _s~            _0c_






IBRD 1732
TIn'  <   So   *r                        44*                                         r46          AUGUST 19S)
,,A'l'TJt  S1+ az  IIAN  1  -YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AVERAGE ANNUAL PRECIPITATION AND ELEVATIONS
r  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~)I~~~~~~~~~~Ifl. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISOIICYETS   I  . RILI ETERS
.. 5IG' P           r                                                              NT1t^\.,   ?   \     @\@    ATIONAL CAPITA.
\   \  \  S   ICili\  ] /                PR~~~~~~~~I--R  ROADS
_ - \    - ROADS UN-ER CONSTRUCTION
tC ; m                                                   steEHE-~~~~~~~~~~~; 
5d DisoT* - *  \   >    __f    9  ;   \   0 ~ CT-    --
t\;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-1~ I ETE.°               5 
,J                ~     ~~~~~~ PEOPLES DEMOC'PATIC QEPJBLC OF YEMEN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T- -;'                       ---E
Al ~~~~  ~~I  b T*dRRA~~~~~~~~~AlP.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
ETHIOPIA                    /
/       DJIBOUTI                                                  M. DW b   t 7T. WWd 8elA  M# Ea  A5* hIO C_t 0 R
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~? fCE CC@Y _                    .4 _ . _   a   _.  t1  O
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'r    OP  OD RA  OS TRIM AWW  Reed VeA #5  hlReSR  FClnelI   DOSRTeRI  SI5RS 
A   50RA   ReNd  OR*5 I?RT   RV  AfdrRWd AT SAWSR  ORtU    MI
Cd.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. W" .~F   ~*,Xp,






IBRD 17323R
r                                               T. ToRaydah                                                                                                               MARCH 1984
HA,4DAN                                        MARI B
A N/AL    BA NI 
AL MAHWEIT                                            SHAIHA  YSH                                                      YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
\ANA'A                                                                CENTRAL HIGHLANDS
ADAH/L/AYyAH\              A  SA A   BAN! A                              'A                     AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Dar Al Monomolh Motn h                            H NYAI                                                        PROJECT
8"  BMohmoudO  Ai1  Suq As   if i  ayt Rio)       -                                                               PROJECT  AREA
i 7  ~/-/,4~-j  ARumayor. Bayt MoI,don      *Hz~                                                                      0     2        0     4
<  X - J A t s ,/,WA t7 9/u   Al Amon  )om  J  / H  A  N  A  H              .                   L T2  30t        4
:  1  ^  B }a s      /  \  B  /~ /              \     lAN I  KALOMETERS
MA TA A
1Mafhio~rDfhoq\       \ Al,.                                                                             PROJECT AREA
B /J/i}  t    L   Moni u                                                                                      BLOCK   CENTERS     (BC's)
Mansv                           / zAR                                                                         VILLAGE EXTENSION CENTERS IVEC's)
\    1            v ~"AL HAYMAT| ,                       \      .
HOD   XAH                  ,"AZ KAHAR/J/YAH                                                                                  I            ®      NATIONAL CAPITAL
I_ ,   \D  RN-PRIMARY ROADS
A  R          I                   ~~~~~~~~~SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
. -     AIl A  A5 |      M      A  l      H// A  D A A                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
j1A9AZ                     As  ,                                                                            PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
SHARO  riodoqoh    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~  ~                             WADIS
Ai            I Khorabo        AAA    -
KhQFLSo)   Al'  or  lotHommwon     >           \    b'                               /I
\  3o              d   o                                    r                                        o h A I  ,tAA Jn o/  ARAB'A _ \
K  a r b cD h.A   IF H mm                                                                       F                                 E 
_ / / . / - . 3 t   *                    \ Al 3eidaH_e .t   _    a     s          S    O    D    A N           J Rc?t- AnROC                     A. C
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,cn ,OP, ARE 'h AR,V J' ,                                                             .. o¢         ARA/A 1  SEAI
m'. ci''B                                                                                 SeAr SAd  .  !  RS 0  SR,        so s°
/ 2            0      /                       To Ta,z                      .                                             AO* 40-  /                     20 AO



