Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4662-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 16, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                  =      Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YRl 1.00                 =      US$0.22
YRls 1 million           =      US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASUR~ES
1 millimeter (mm)        =      0.039 inches
1 meter (m)              =      3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)             10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)         =      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)           =      2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)       =      2,205 pounds
1 litre (1)   '                 0.264 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
ARS      =    Agricultural Research Service
CACB     =    Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO      =    Central Planning Organization
CYDA     =    Copfederation of Yemeni Development Associations
DAFRD    =    Dhamar Agricultural and Forestry Research and Development Project
FAO/CP   =    Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
GCC           Governorate Coordinating Council
IDA      =    International Development Association
IFAD     =    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LDA      =    Local Development Association
MAF      =    Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MIS      =    Ministry of Trade and Supply
ODA      =    Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PPF      =    Project Preparation Facility
SURDP          Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
USAID    =    United States Agency for Internat,ional Development
YAR      =    Yemen Arab Republic
YOMINCO  =    Yemen Oil and Mineral Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                             Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................                 i - iii
I.         BACKGROUND .................................................1
A.  Sectoral Setting .......................................                  1
General ..............................................                 1
Development Potential ................................                 2
Agricultural Institutions ............................                 3
B.  Agricultural Credit ....................................                  5
General ..............................................                 5
Operating Policies ...................................                 5
Loan Procedures ......................................                 5
C.  Government's Development Strategy ......................                  6
D.  IDA's Sectoral Strategy ................................                  7
II.      THE PROJECT AREA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL ....              ..........   8
A.  Description ..............................................                8
Location ...............................................    8
Topography and Elevation ...............................    8
Geology and Soils ......................................    9
Climate ................................................    9
Water Resources ........................................    9
Rural Roads .10
Population and Labor Force .11
Land Tenure and Farm Size .11
Cropping Systems .11
Farm Technology .12
Agricultural Institutions .12
On-going Projects .12
B. Development Potential and Technology .13
The project was identified by FAO/CP in August 1982 and prepared by them in
October/November of that year.   It was appraised  in April/May  1983 by a team
consisting of Messrs. T. Haile-Mariam (Team Leader), S. Rana, M. Woldu, L.
Revuelta,  (IDA);  and D. Masterton  (Consultant).   Messrs. J. Renkewitz and M.
Zelaya (EMPWS) evaluated the Water Supply component. IFAD participated in the
review of the preparation report, and was represented by Mr. T. Flhaut in
final discussions with the Government during appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                                                           Page  No.
III. THE PROJECT .14
A.   Design  Features  .........................................    14
B.   Objectives  ..............................................                           14
C.   Description  .............................................    14
Extension Development  .................................    15
Rural Water  Supply  Schemes  ............................    16
Studies  ...............................................    16
Project  Administration  ................................    16
D.   Implementation  Schedule  .................................    17
E.   Cost Estimate  ...........................................    17
F.   Financing  ...............................................    19
G.   Procurement  .............................................    20
H.   Disbursement  ............................................    21
I.   Environmental  Impact  ....................................    22
IV.        PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ......................................    22
A.   Implementing  Agencies  ...................................    22
General  ...............................................    22
Extension  Service  .....................................    23
B.  The Borrower  ............................................    24
C.   Terms  and Conditions  of Financing Water  Supply  Schemes  ..    24
D.   Progress  Reporting,  Monitoring  and Evaluation  ....                    .......    25
E.   Accounts  and Audits  .....................................    25
V.        BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...................................    26
A.   Impact on Production .....................................    26
General ...............................................    26
Extension Program and Adoption Rates .26
Cropping Pattern  and Production  ........................                       28
B.   Marketing,  Markets  and Prices  ............................                       29
Marketing ...........................................  29
Markets ...........................................  29
Prices ...........................................  29
C.   Impact  on Beneficiaries'  Income  .......                  ..................    30
Beneficiaries  .........................................                         30
Benefits  ........................................ ..                            31
D.   Economic  Rate of Return  .............                ....................    33
E. Risks . ..........................................  34
VI.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .......                      .................   35



ANNEX 1.  Supporting Tables                                          Page No.
1.  Population and Villages in the Project Districts ........   37
2.  List of Vehicle Requirements           ............ I ...... I ....   38
3.  Source of Extension Service Staff . .      .. . ...           9
4. Project Cost Estimate .................................... 4'
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursemencs of EDA Credit.
6.  Project Staff      .................................         4.
7.  Design Criteria for Rural Water Suipply Schemec .... ......   43
8. Cumulative Number of Farmers Participating in Project ....   44
9. Crop Output from Areas to be Developed Uder Project  ..   45
10. Prices of Key Commodities Used for Project Analysis  ..   46
11.  Present Cropping Pattern on Total Holding Represented
by Farm Models .........         .....    .............   47
12.  Future Cropping Pattern on Area to be Developed Under
Project ............                                      48
13-18.  Annual Incomes and Operating Expenses for Farm Models .... 49-54
19.  Field Crop Inputs, Farm Traction, and Labor Requirements
Per Hectare at Present ............... ..   .................   55
20.  Field Crop Inputs, Farm Traction, and Labor
Requirements per Hectare with Project ........ .........  56
21.  Crop Production Cost at Present ............    ..............  57
22.  Crop Production Cost with Project ........... .............  58
23.  Operation and Maintenance Cost of Citrus with Project ....  59
24.  Operation and Maintenance Cost of Vineyard with
Project   ................................................  60
25.  Operation and Maintenance Cost of Coffee with
Project   ................................................  61
26.  Economic Cost and Quantifiable Benefit Streams .... .......  62
ANNEX 2.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ..  63
CHART
World Bank 25171 - Organigram of Implementing Agencies
MAPS
IBRD 17321 - Project Districts
IBRD 17322 - Average Annual Precipitation and Elevations
IBRD 17323 - Project Area



Il



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: Government of Yemen Arab Republic.
Amount: US$ 8 million equivalent.
Terms: Standard.
Beneficiaries:         The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
Project Objectives
and Description:       The  proposed   project  is  the  first  phase  of  an
agricultural   development   program   in   the   Central
Highlands  region  of  YAR.   The  key  objective  of  the
project is to increase farm income through production
and productivity  increases.   The project would consist
of: establishment of an extension service including
construction of buildings, recruitment and training of
extension staff, and provision of equipment; construction
of 15 rural water supply schemes; studies of a possible
second phase project; setting up of an organization for
the project's implementation; and technical assistance.
The project would benefit about 45,000 people.  Yields
of crops are projected to increase by 40-60% resulting
in net farm benefit increases of over 70%.  The project
would also help to improve the quality of life of the
rural population by providing them with potable water.
The main risk is possible slow start-up of the project
resulting  from  delay  in  establishing  the  project
organization.     Timely   employment   of   local   and
internationally recruited staff, and early initiation of
the recruitment and training of extension staff would
minimize   the  risk.   The  Government  realizes  this
important  step  in  the  project  implementation,   and
intends to establish the project organization on a
priority basis.



Project Cost:/"
Local             Foreign          Total
---------------…(US  Million)----------
Extension Development                    3.4                3.3              6.7
Rural Water Supply                       1.1                3.6              4.7
Studies                                  0.4                0.8              1.2
Project Administration                   1.6                 0.8             2.4
Base Cost                        6.5                 8.5            15.0
Contingencies
Physical                            0.3                 0.6             0.9
Expected Price Increase             2.3                 1.8             4.1
Sub-Total                       2.6                 2.4             5.0
Total Cost                      9.1                10.9            20.0
Financing Plan;
Item              IDA       IFAD        ODA      Government          LDAs           Total
------------------------------(US$ Million)…---------------------
Extension
Development           3.1        1.5         1.0          3.3              -            8.9
Water Supply            3.3         1.7        -            -                 1.5          6.5
Studies                 0.9        0.5         -                              -            1.4
Proj. Admin.             0.7       0.3         _            2.2               -            3.2
Total               8.0        4.0         1.0          5.5              1.5         20.0
/1   The cost estimates exclude taxes and duties, as the project would be
exempted from these.



- 111 -
Estimated Disbursement;
IDA Fiscal Year
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
…____-…_-----------…(US$ Million)-----------
Annual                    1.8      1.9       1.2      1.0    1.1       1.0
Cumulative                1.8      3.7       4.9      5.9    7.0       8.0
Economic Rate of Return:   27 percent.
Appraisal Report:            No. 4662-YAR  dated  February 16, 1984.






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Sectoral Setting
1.01      General.   Until  the  late  1960's,  the  agricultural   sector  was
oriented  largely  towards  the  subsistence  needs  of  basically  a  stagnant
economy.   The sector generated hardly any surplus on which economic growth
could be based. Agricultural institutions, which were in their early phase of
development,  were weak.   It employed  about 90 percent  of the economically
active population and contributed as much as 90 percent of GDP.  Currently, it
accounts for about 30 percent of the GDP, 50 percent of merchandise exports,
and employs  75 percent  of the  labor  force.   About  f.5 million people  (90
percent) live in rural areas.
1.02      In the wake of the 1973 oil price shock, the sector was subjected to
a sudden change  in the economic  environment.   Higher wages  in neighboring
oil-exporting  countries  lured  many  Yemeni  workers  to  emigrate.   Their
remittances raised domestic disposable income. This resulted in an upsurge in
the  local  demand  for  foodstuffs,  including  fruits,  vegetables,  and  other
products, some of which were new to the Yemeni diet.  The farmers' responses
to  these  changes  were  predictable.   Marginal  rainfed   lands  used   for
cultivating traditional grains were abandoned and more effort was directed to
cultivating more rewarding  and  often new types  of  cash  crops.   Still  the
growth in demand for foodstuffs far exceeded domestic supply.  As a result,
agricultural   imports   increased   sevenfold   during  the  past  decade.   In
particular, imports of cereals increased from about 160,000 tons in 1974 to
about 510,000 tons in 1981.  Currently, imported foodstuffs account for about
30  percent  of  merchandise  imports.   Meanwhile,  exports  of  agricultural
products, which have always been modest, have declined by about half.  During
1973-80, imports of agricultural products increased from US$80 million to
US$540 million.   During the same period,  agricultural  exports declined  from
about US$15 million to about half that much.
1.03      Now that the inflow of workers' remittances has stablilzed (close to
US$ 1.0 billion per year), and given the economy's limited potential for
industrial development and the uncertainty surrounding mineral exploration,
agricultural growth must be relied upon to sustain the improvement in the
standard  of  living  of  the  population.   The  potential  for  agricultural
development is significant.  Although traditional farm practices predominate,
there has been a steady increase in the use of fertilizers and pesticides over
the past decade.  Originally applied to cotton (a traditional export crop),
farmers are now responding to extension service advice in the context of
specific development projects, principally in the Tihama area and Southern
Uplands.   Farmers  have  also  demonstrated  a  strong  interest  in  planting
improved varieties of crops where these have been available, as in the case of
wheat, potatoes, maize, and millet. Much more needs to be done.



-2-
1.04      Development Potential.   Agriculture  has  significant  potential  for
development. About 1.5 million ha (out of a total area of 20 million ha) have
the best potential for rainfed agricultural development on about 1.2 million
ha and irrigated agricultural development on 0.3 million ha 1/.   They are
spread in five main agroecological zones as follows:
(a)  the Coastal Lowlands (Tihama) cover a band 400 km long and 30
to 60 km wide along the Red Sea coast with elevations ranging
between sea level and 200 m above.  Tropical conditions of high
temperature and humidity prevail. The Tihama comprises 5 major
wadis and 12 smaller ones which permit cultivation of about
235,000 ha. Rainfall is scarce (50 to 200 mm), and agriculture
depends mainly on utilization of the flood discharge of the
wadis and of underground water resources.  The main crops are
sorghum, millet and cotton. Tobacco, maize, sesame, vegetables
and fruit (dates, bananas and citrus) are also grown. Live-
stock plays a minor role in this region, which contains an
estimated 10% of the country's population of cattle, sheep and
goats;
(b)  the Southern Uplands  lie east  of the Tihama with elevations
ranging from 200 to 1,500 m above sea level.  The landscape is
rugged,  cut by  deep  wadis.   In  the  foothills,  with  higher
relative humidity, sorghum, maize, bananas, papaya, citrus and
vegetables (tomatoes, onions, okra and radishes) predominate.
In the middle heights, temperature and humidity conditions are
subtropical.  Sorghum, Sat (a plant with mild narcotic effect),
coffee,  fruit and vegetables are the major crops.   The total
cultivable area in the Southern Uplands  is about 550,000 ha,
mostly on man-made terraces.  The region is also an important
livestock producer containing approximately 30% of the total
cattle population of the country and a similar percentage of
sheep and goats;
(c)  the Central Highlands (Chapter II) comprise the middle reaches
of the central mountain range. W~heat, barley, alfalfa, sorghum,
grapes, qat, coffee, figs, stone fruit, and vegetables are the
chief crops.  The total cultivable area in this zone is about
600,000 ha. The Central Highlands are also the main livestock-
raising region with about 35% of the total of cattle, sheep and
goats;
1/ About 15 million ha are mountainous, desert, and semi-arid to arid range
lands  with  sparse  vegetation.   These  are  not  considered  to  have  good
potential.  About 3.5 million ha are either sparsely wooded or are cultivated
intermittently for field crop production in years of high rainfall. They have
a limited potential, but these may not be priority development lands because
of low and uncertain rainfall.



-3-
(d)  the Northern Highlands  constitute  the  upper  reaches  c" the
central mountain chain.   The climate is semi-arid with arnnal
rainfall ranging from 200 to 500 mm and altitudes that exceed
1,500 m.  There are an estimated 130,000 ha (,- cultivable land
in this region which is mainly devoted to sorghum,  wheat and
grazing.  The livestock population in this region is estimatec
at about 15% of the country's total; and
(e) the Eastern region slopes gently towards the desert in the Fast.
There is very little rainfall, and desert shrubs are the main
vegetation. Most cultivation, on an estimated 25,000 ha, occurs
along the wadis that flow eastwards from the Highlands towards
the desert. Sorghum and millet are the principal crops. Live-
stock plays only a minor role in this region, with about 10% of
the total stock of the country.
1.05      Rainfed  agriculture  would  continue  to be  the  primary  source  of
sectoral  production  in  the  foreseeable  future.   Production  under  rainfed
cultivation can be increased by changing cultural practices such as improving
the timing and quality of seed-bed preparation, applying fertilizers and
pesticide, and practicing soil moisture conservation such as weed control.
These improvements would need to be supported by an effective information
campaign to educate the farmers, complemented by supply of technological
packages.   Yemeni  farmers  are  responsive  to  financial  incentives,  and  it
should not be unduly difficult to transfer to them new agricultural technolo-
gical packages provided the technologies are readily available, and are proven
to increase production profitably.  Such a transfer is intended to take place
under the proposed project.
1.06      Livestock and poultry are also important, accounting for about 20%
of the agricultural output, and are an integral part of rainfed and irrigated
agricultural activities.  The animals are kept for transportation and as draft
animals, as a source of animal products for home consumption, and secondarily
as source  of  cash  income.   They  are  fed  on crop  byproducts  and  on poor
communal pastures. They suffer from a wide variety of diseases, are under-
nourished and underweight; hence their productivity is low.  This has resulted
in  stunted  and  slow  maturing  animals,  and  in  low  animal  production
coefficients.   Potential  areas  of  improvement  include  better  veterinary
services, improved feeding practices, and improvement in herd and range
management.   The project would demonstrate the benefits of improved  feeding
and would increase the supply of crop byproducts for animal  feed.  Attempts
are being made under a separate project to improve livestock health.
1.07      Agricultural Institutions.   Overall responsibility for agricultural
development lies with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) at Sanaa
with six departments, among them the Agricultural Services Department which is
itself divided into six divisions including extension and plant protection.
MAF has established agricultural offices in the capital cities of nine gover-
norates, but due to financial and staff constraints, its extension activities
are very limited.   Of the total of about 210 agents, about  190 are in the
Tihama area and the Southern Uplands leaving only about 20 agents to cover the
rest  of the  country.   The proposed project would  include  a component  for
strengthening the extension service in the project area.



-4-
1.08      The MAF is also responsible  for agricultural  research.   Prior  to
1973, agricultural research was non-existent.  In 1973, UNDP initiated support
of a Central Agricultural Research and Training Organization  in Taiz.   The
project, executed by FAO, established the Agricultural Research Service (APS)
at Taiz and started research on key crops in the Southern Uplands region.  In
1973, IDA's first assistance to agriculture in YAR (Tihama I) included a
research component in the Tropical Lowlands.   Subsequently,  several bilateral
assistance  projects  have  incorporated  research  components.   In  1979,  UNDP
initiated Phase II of its Agricultural Research Project with IDA as executing
agency.  ARS's objectives under Phase II were to:  conduct a research program
geared to the agricultural problems of the Southern Uplands; advise MAF on
developing a national research program; provide facilities, equipment, and
expatriate assistance for a study of the country's research programs; and
provide for training of the necessary extension agents required under Southern
Uplands  Rural Development Projects  I and II.  An Agricultural Research and
Development Project has recently been approved by IDA and is being co-financed
by IFAD and the Government of Italy.  The various ongoing research projects
have yielded results which will be applied in the project.
1.09      IDA,  in  collaboration  with  other  donors,  is  helping  to  train
agricultural staff at secondary schools in Ibb, Surdud, and Sanaa.   The Ibb
school, which opened in 1979, has a capacity for about 150 students.   The
Surdud school, with a capacity for 220 students, opened in 1981, and the Sanaa
school, opened in 1982, has a capacity to train 180 students.   In addition,
ARS at Taiz has been providing, since 1979, one year theoretical and practical
training courses for about 25 extension students.  Two-week refresher sessions
are held regularly, mainly for extension agents working under the Southern
Uplands  project.   Training  (domestic  and  external)  is also being provided
under several other projects financed by IDA and other donors.
1.10      The farmers are also active in self-help rural development programs
through  their Local Development Associations  (LDAs).   The  LDAs  started  in
1963, following a decree from the Government calling for the establishment of
local groups to build the basic infrastructure in their respective areas,
encouraging self-help rather than relying solely upon central government
initiatives and programs. Mostly, government contacts with LDAs are channeled
through the Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations (CYDA) which is a
coordinating body through which the Government  exerts  its  influence.   There
are currently about 200 LDAs throughout the country.  Thus far,  the bulk of
LDAs' resources has been spent on roads, water supply projects, schools and
clinics.
1.11      The LDAs are organized by districts and relate to the Government and
its technical ministries through their Governorate Coordinating Councils
(GCSs)  and CYDA.   Each LDA and GCC has a general  assembly  and an elected
board.   Eligible voters  in the LDA territory  elect members  to the general
assembly while the general assembly of GCC consists of presidents of all LDAs
within the various governorates.  The membership of CYDA's board comprises 11
GCC general secretaries, 11 individuals elected by LDAs' presidents and 9 non-
voting deputy ministers appointed by the Government.  The President of YAR is
also President of CYDA.



-5-
B. Agricultural Credit
1.12      General.    The   primary   source   of   institutional   finance   for
agriculture is the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) established
in 1982 by consolidating the Agricultural Credit Bank and the Agricultural
Credit Fund. IDA has provided a credit of US$8 million in 1982 (Credit
1308-YAR) to strengthen CACB.  Details on CACB's management and organization,
staffing,  accounting  and performance  are  contained  in  the  Staff Appraisal
Report on that project  (Report No. 4102-YAR).  This section summarizes this
bank's operating policies and procedures.
1.13      Operating Policies.  CACB was established to provide short-, medium-
and long-term financing for the development of agriculture, forestry,
fisheries and related activities, and to promote and support agricultural and
handicraft  cooperative  associations  and  organizations.   Eligible  borrowers
include   individuals,   cooperatives,   LDAs,   and  corporations.    Since  the
institution is fairly young, its coverage of the rural areas is limited but
growing.
1.14      At present,  CACB charges  interest at the rate  of 9% on seasonal
loans and 10% on medium-term loans.  These rates have been positive in real
terms over the past few years, but with a projected increase in the rate of
domestic inflation, the real rates are nearing zero or becoming negative.
Under the Agricultural Credit Project, CACB would continue, for the time
being, to charge these rates and to carry out a periodic review of them at
intervals not exceeding two years with the first such review to take place not
later than June 30, 1984.
1.15      Other  terms  and  conditions  of  lending  include:   the  loan amount
should not exceed 75% of the total cost of subprojects;  no loans should be
made for the production of qat, in cases where the required loan security is
already  encumbered,  or  to  defaulters  of  previous  loans;  irrigation  loans
should be made only on the basis of a certificate from a qualified technician
showing adequate water availability for irrigation; and loans for land
development, well drilling, plantations and other activities that are
completed over a period of time should be disbursed in installments following
field visits by CACB personnel.   CACB obtains as security a promissory note
for the full amount of the loan, two personal guarantees for all loans up to
YRls 20,000 (US$4,445), and a land security for any loans in excess of that
amount. The security requirements may be unnecessarily restrictive for some
needy but progressive farmers with limited assets.  Under the above mentioned
credit  project,   the  CACB  has  undertaken  to  adopt  the  following  two
modifications to the above lending conditions:   for tenant farmers, the crop
would be acceptable as security for seasonal loans not exceeding Ypls 20,000
(US$4,445) without the need for guarantors; and a financial rate of return of
not less than 12% is the minimum criteria for subproject acceptability.
1.16      Loan Procedures.   The evaluation of applications  is entrusted  to
credit supervisors at the branches.  Decisions regarding loan approvals have
been based upon the availability of adequate security.  Appraisals are often
inadequate primarily due to the lack of adequate training of the project
staff.   To improve project evaluation and the necessary technical skills of



-6-
the  CACB   staff,   the   Agricultural   Credit   Project   provides   for  six
internationally recruited experts who would assist in the training of staff
and in the preparation of manuals for their guidance.
1.17      Branch managers are responsible for loan collection and, at present,
an effort is made at harvest time to contact the borrowers to ensure collec-
tion when the crop is sold.  If payment is not: made after sale of the crop,
peer pressure is brought to bear and the loan guarantors are informed of the
delinquency.  To date no loans have been written off nor is there a procedure
for doing so.  Nevertheless, the loan recovery rate which exceeded 90% at the
beginning of operations has tended to deteriorate recently.  The IDA financed
project is designed to improve loan supervision and recovery.
C. Government's Development Strategy
1.18      The economy of YAR is basically free of government intervention in
the workings of the market system. Most economic activities are undertaken by
private entrepreneurs, and public investments are complementary to investments
by the private sector.  The Government has undertaken several investments in
irrigation and rural infrastructure to complement the efforts of the private
sector.   Under the First  Five-Year  Plan  (1976-81),  emphasis  was  given  to
irrigation development  in the Tihama plain.   The development  strategy also
included integrated regional rural development in the Southern Uplands.   In
all cases, project design included important institution building components
for  project  implementation  and  planning.    The  distribution  of  public
investment in agriculture was irrigation (50%), livestock development (18%),
crop research and training (14%), rural development (11%), fisheries (6%), and
forestry (1%).  The overall goal  of the plan was  to reduce dependency on
imported food within a general framework of a 5.5% rate of annual increase of
agricultural production.  High priority was assigned to projects in areas with
good agricultural potential, and to research and manpower training.
1.19      An assessment of achievements under the first plan has been carried
out in conjunction with the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-85).
A number of major development projects were completed, a large cadre was
trained, an Agricultural Credit Bank was established and a vast lending program
implemented far beyond what was anticipated in the plan, new extension
services  were  created,  a central  research  station  became  a reality,  and
development centers were established in Radaa, Dhamar and Amran.
1.20      The Second Five-Year Plan was presented in April 1982 to an inter-
national congress of donor countries and multilateral development agencies.
The overall strategy and approach of the First Five-Year Plan have been
maintained in the Second.  In addition,  the Second Plan includes a broader
geographical dispersion of projects aimed at cementing national unity as well
as increasing overall agricultural  production.   The  agricultural  investment
program,  however,  is  ambitious:   it  proposes  implementation  of  57  public
investment projects at a cost of about US$670 million equivalent.  However,
with the emerging severe budgetary constraint and the long standing skilled
manpower shortage, the Government is unlikely to implement in full such an
ambitious   development   program.    The  Government   has    confirmed   during
negotiations that the proposed project will remain a priority development
program and will be fully funded until it is completed.



-7-
D. IDA's Sectoral Strategy
1.21      In  support  of  the  Government's  development  objectives,   IDA's
strategy for agricultural sector assistance is three-pronged:   (i) support to
projects in zones of high production potential in the Coastal Lowlands
(Tihama) and Southern Uplands; (ii) assistance in the development of improved
technological inputs and in the provision of financial means for the farmers
to purchase and apply those inputs; and (iii) institution building aimed at
strengthening major agricultural support services.  To date, IDA has financed
11 agricultural projects.
1.22      The first IDA-assisted agricultural project was Tihama Development I
(Wadi Zabid) in 1973, co-financed with the Kuwait Fund.  It was completed in
December 1979, only six months behind schedule with an IDA credit of US$21.2
million and Kuwait Fund loan of US$16 million. The Project Performance Report
states that introduction of new technology through agricultural research and
extension for irrigated crops in the Wadi Zabid region of the Tropical
Lowlands was readily accepted by farmers despite a well entrenched traditional
socio-political environment.  Part of the success of the extension service was
attributed to the results of agricultural research conducted in the project
area.
1.23      The second project (1976) was SURDP I assisted with an IDA credit of
US$10 million and co-financed with USSlo million from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
That was the first integrated rural development project, which was designed to
increase agricultural production from about 50,000 ha cultivated by nearly
21,000 farmers.  The project, which was recently completed (completion report
of December 1982), was successful in achieving its broad objectives of
increasing rainfed cereal production and improving rural infrastructure,
particularly water supply.  Specifically, the project succeeded in: providing
short-and medium-term credit to a large number of farmers; constructing 66
village water supply and several small-scale irrigation schemes; establishing
agricultural extension, plant protection, and veterinary services; and setting
up an effective rural development unit.   Start-up was  slow because  it took
time to make the new project unit operational mainly due to staff recruitment
problems.   The  project  unit  has  developed  into  a  reasonably  effective
organization capable of sustaining the development momentum. Despite the slow
start-up, the farmers' participation in the project was enthusiastic adopting
rapidly improved technological packages, and yield gains for major crops
reached or exceeded appraisal expectations.
1.24      SURDP I was followed up by SURDP II in 1981, co-financed with IFAD.
SURDP II is progressing well.  The project has developed a range of technical
packages which offer development opportunities. These packages, which vary by
rainfall  zones,   irrigated  areas,  and  crops  include  fertilizer,   plant
protection, seed treatment, improved varieties, spacing, mechanization, pest
control,  and  cultivation  practices.   The  project  has  been  successful  in
selecting, training, and deploying extension staff; and developing extension
packages  and  having  these  adopted  by  a  large  section  of  the  farming
community.  Very good crop yields have been obtained from the application of
improved technical packages.



-8-
1.25      In general, IDA's role as a catalyst for co-financing of primarily
agriculture  and  rural  development  projects  has  been  substantial.   Other
IDA-assisted agricultural projects under way include Tihama Development II
(Wadi Rima I, FY78), III (Wadi Mawr, FY80, co-financed with IFAD) and IV (Wadi
Rima II, FY80); and Livestock Credit and Processing (FY77), all of which are
making progress usually after having experienced start-up difficulties due to
financial,managerial, and staffing problems of varying degrees of severity. A
Grain Storage and Processing Project I (FY76) has been completed recently.
The Fisheries Development Project (FY80) has major problems of management, and
is making little progress.  An Agricultural Research and Development Project
was approved by IDA on June 8, 1982, and the credit became effective on
November 30,  1983.  A credit of US$8.0 million  for an Agricultural  Credit
Project was  approved by IDA on December  14,  1982.   Although  the projects
completed or nearing completion have increased production, the impact of all
projects on agricultural development at the national level is too early to
judge.
1.26      IDA's  involvement  in  the  sector  is  designed  to  strengthen  the
capability of MAF to support agricultural development, and raise the standard
of living of the rural population.  This is the twelfth agricultural project
over  a  ten-year  period.   The  achievements  of  the  two  completed  projects
financed by IDA are evidence of the importance of the Association's continued
involvement  in  the  sector.   The  proposed  project  is  modeled  after  the
successful Southern Uplands projects and falls within IDA's strategy of
replicating the successful experiences in the various parts of the country.
The Government in general, and MAF in particular, continue to rely heavily on
IDA's assistance and have considerable regard for the policy and technical
advice they receive.  As more of the IDA-assisted agricultural projects reach
their productive phases, it would be possible to generate a momentum of
agricultural growth that would have a tangible effect on the sector at large.
It  is  important  to  have  a  critical  mass  of  agricultural  projects,
appropriately located, that can sustain the momentum, such as the proposed
project which would be located in the important Central Highlands part of the
country.
II. THF PROJECT AREA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
A. Description
2.01      Location.   The project area  (Map IBRD 17321) would be located  in
parts of the Governorates of Dhamar and Sanaa i:n a region collectively known
as the Central Highlands.  It would cover five clistricts of Dhamar Governorate
(Dhamar, Al Hada, Mabar, Dawran and Jabal Ash Sharq) and five of Sanaa
Governorate (Bilad Arrus, Sanhan, Bani Matar, Al Haymat al Kharijiyah and Al
Haymat al Dakhiliyah).   The best potential  for agricultural  development  in
these districts is located in terraced rainfed areas receiving more than 450
mm of annual rainfall and in areas with irrigation.
2.02      Topography and Elevation.  Physical characteristics of the project
area fall into three broad classifications;  the intermontane areas which lie
generally above 2,000 m in elevation; the intermediate region or escarpments,
ranging in elevation from 1,300 to 2,000 m and constituting the upper catch-



-9-
ments of the river systems draining to the west; and the wadis or the floors
of the intermediate zone valleys which decrease from 1,300 to 1,000 m in
elevation towards the west.
2.03      Geology and Soils.  Geology of the area is predominantly tertiary
volcanic, overlain in part by alluvium and intruded quaternary volcanic
rocks. Faulting has tended to sharpen the relief but has also led to erosion
of upfaulted areas and the deposition of alluvium in downfaulted areas. About
50% of the intermontane plains consist of stony deposits with very little soil
cover, and is unsuitable for cultivation. The remaining 50%, representing the
agricultural area, consist of basins, and major and minor valleys with deep
soils. These soils are of moderately fine texture including sandy loam, loam
or silt loam and are in general well drained. Most of the productive soils in
the upper catchments have been deposited on a centuries old system of
terraces.   The  terraces  have  served  to control  erosion,  to harvest  water
runoff, and to retain the deep soils.   Soils on the wadi floors are mostly
silt  to  silty  loams  of  varying  depths  overlying  gravel.   All  are  free
textured,  usually  well  drained  and  easy  to  cultivate.   Organic  matter,
nitrogen, and phosphorus levels are generally low, but the content of
exchangeable potassium and magnesium are high.   With adequate moisture,  the
soils would give satisfactory response to application of nitrogenous and
phosphatic fertilizer and allow a wide range of crops to be grown.
2.04      Climate.   Climatic  conditions  vary  from  temperate  on  the  high
intermontane plains and terraces to subtropical in the wadi floors.  Rainfall
on the intermontane plain ranges generally from 250 to 400 mm but increases to
the west in the intermediate region reaching 600 to 700 mm.  Further to the
west, rainfall decreases with proximity to the coastal Tihama plain (Map IBRD
17322). More than 85% of the rainfall occurs during the spring and summer
growing seasons.
2.05      Mean annual  temperature  is about  150C but  there  is considerable
variation.  Day temperatures remain well above 150C throughout the year but
night temperatures can drop below zero at high elevations, especially from
December  through  February.   Conditions  in  these  areas  are  suitable  for
temperate fruits but the chance of frost limits the planting of potatoes,
tomatoes and other sensitive crops.  Terraced lands in the intermediate zone
are generally free of frost.
2.06      Climatic  conditions  on  the  plains  at  high  elevation  permit  the
growing of one main crop planted between March and June and, in some cases
where water is available, a catch crop either before or after the main crop.
They are suitable to grow deciduous fruit and grapes.  Conditions at highest
levels on the terraced lands of the intermediate region are similar to the
plains except for a reduced danger of frost; at lower elevations, with water,
second cropping is possible and perennial crops such as coffee and citrus can
be grown.  The wadi floors have subtropical conditions suitable for multiple
cropping and for growing coffee, citrus, banana, papaya, etc.
2.07      Water Resources.  Rainfall on the catchment is the only known source
of water within the project area.  A part of the runoff generated therefrom
flows through numerous small streams used partly for spate irrigation and the
rest percolates into the soil which either charges the aquifer or emerges



-10-
through springs and wadi bed resurgences and contributes to the perennial
streams.   Unfortunately,  no  figures  are available  for the runoff and very
little is known of the frequency and volumes of floods produced by the
occasional heavy rainstorms. Some of the perennial discharge and most of the
floods flow out of the project area to the Tihama plains where these are used
for irrigation and domestic water.   The existing use of the available water
resources in the project is irrigation in 10 districts on about 8,730 ha
including 4,615 ha from springs or perennial flow, 4,115 ha from groundwater
in addition to about 6,000 ha occasional and irregular spate irrigation.
Domestic water is also derived from the same sources as the irrigation water,
but it is raw and has to be hauled over long distances.
2.08      The two main locations of groundwater are the aquifers of the Sanaa
basin and the Dhamar Mountain Plains.   The Sanaa  aquifer is constituted by
cretaceous sandstones, is productive and has a water table at depths varying
from 20 to 30 m below ground surfaces in low-lying areas to over 100 m in the
highlands.   In the Dhamar Plains,  shallow alluvial aquifers provide most of
the groundwater abstraction and deep volcanic rocks account for the rest.  The
origin of the shallow aquifer in the alluvium is percolation from the surface
runoff but that of the deep groundwater  is not known.   The yield  from the
shallow aquifer depends upon the amount of rainfall in the preceding periods
and is thus highly variable.   The groundwater resources in the project area
have so far sustained the exploitation despite a tremendous growth in demand
lately, albeit, by depletion of the deep aquifer at an annual rate of between
0.5 m and 2 m.  Since the pumping rates have  not  stabilized yet  and the
hydro-geology has not been fully investigated,  it is hard to judge at this
stage whether the state of equilibrium in the Groundwater Equation has already
been surpassed.  Therefore, before expanding the existing use of groundwater
substantially for agriculture, it is imperative that its potential be fully
investigated.   Such investigations are planned by various agencies, namely,
Yemen Oil and Mineral Corporation (YOMINCO) at the country level, through
special hydrological and water resources studies (paras. 3.09 and 3.10) in
this project, and as part of the ongoing irrigation projects in the Tihama
region.   During negotiations,  assurances were  obtained  that  the Government
would not authorize digging of new wells for agriculture in the project area
until the said studies have proven availability of groundwater for additional
exploitation  (para. 6.01 (a)).   Should it be found  that the existing water
resources would not sustain the increasing demand for agriculture, irrigation
would have to be restricted by giving preference to domestic water needs of
the population in the project area.
2.09      Rural Roads.  Principal access to the project area is provided by
the Sanaa-Hodeidah road for the project districts of Sanaa Governorate, and by
the Sanaa-Taiz road for the districts in Dhamar Governorate.   These are the
two most important trunk roads of YAR with asphalt pavements which are in good
condition, and with average daily traffic of more than 3,000 vehicles.  The
roads constitute the backbone of some 2,000 km of rural roads in the project
area.
2.10      The rural road network consists mainly  of track and  low-standard
earth roads.  These have not been built to formalized standards, and most of
them lack drainage and retaining walls.  Many are barely of bulldozer width
and  are  negotiable  only  by  four-wheel  drive  vehicles.   During  the  rainy
season, the roads become muddy and get floodecd.  The Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is helping to improve rural roads in the project area.



-ll-
Traffic  on  the  roads  is  local,  the  roads  being  used  for  transport  of
passengers and agricultural products.
2.11      Population and Labor Force.  The rural population of the 10 project
districts is estimated at 366,840 inhabitants, with the agricultural population
comprising about 85%.  The rural population lives in some 1,645 villages and
1,120 associated hamlets, giving an average of 33 families per village (Annex
1, Table 1).  Of the agricultural population, the available adult labor force
amounts to 160,000.  With around 150 days for work during the crop season, the
average family has some 430 work days available.   Including an estimated 60
days equivalent for livestock care during this period, representative farms
require 200 to 380 work days leaving a considerable  surplus of labor.  Even
during the peak demand seasons of planting and harvesting, family labor
remains underutilized.
2.12      Land Tenure and Farm Size.  About 80% of the entire agricultural
land is occupied by owners and the remainder by sharecroppers; the area to be
developed under the project is expected to be owner operated.  Average farm
size varies from about 0.5 to 6.7 ha; about 30% of the farms range from 3 to 7
ha. Holdings are fragmented into many parcels ranging on average from 4 to
12, but since holdings are divided into 10 or more terraces, fragmentation at
different elevations helps to spread the seasonality of production.
2.13      Cropping Systems.  These can be categorized as follow;
(a)   Rainfed farming on the plains.  This group includes about 24% of
all farms. Because of the generally low rainfall (less than 450
mm), the area includes farms where there are no proven develop-
ment packages. Improved varieties and techniques tested to date
in such areas have failed to consistently demonstrate yield
improvement that would be attractive  to farmers.   These areas
would not be included in the project;
(b)   Rainfed farming on the terraces.  This category includes about
45% of all farms, roughly one third of whom are in low-rainfall
areas with no immediate development prospects. Yield levels are
higher than in the plains, and there is considerable scope for
the improvement of crop production through better agricultural
practices.   About  60% of  the area  to be developed under  the
project would be located here;
(c)   Mixed  rainfed-irrigated  farming  on  the  plains.   These  farms
account for only about 8% of the total. Irrigated production is
predominantly  cereals,  usually  wheat  and  maize  but   also
including sorghum, alfalfa, and vegetables/potatoes.  About 10%
of the area to be developed under the project would be located
here;
(d)   Mixed rainfed-irrigated farming on the terraces.  These account
for about 18% of all farms.  Rainfed production is supplemented
by surface water or groundwater irrigation devoted mostly to a
single  cereal  crop  and vegetable  production.   Some  irrigated



-12-
terrace areas at lower elevation are devoted to coffee and fruit
production.  Farms in this category would account for about 28%
of the area to be developed under the project; and
(e)   Irrigated  farms in the wadis.   Purely irrigated  farms account
for only 5% of the total and many of these are located in the
wadis where they have part or all of the area depending on spate
flow and a small area of perennial surface or groundwater
irrigation.   Spate flow is used for sorghum or maize, usually
more than one crop annually.  Perennial irrigation is used for
maize (usually two crops) and vegetables with small areas
devoted to coffee and or fruit including citrus, bananas and
papaya.   Such farms would comprise about 2% of the area to be
developed.
2.14      Qat is also an important part of the cropping system.  It is widely
consumed by the population who enjoy its stimulating and relaxing properties.
It  is  believed  to  account  for  a  significant  proportion  of  household
expenditures.   High  prices  and  low  production  cost  make  the  crop  very
profitable, and this has induced farmers to use good land to grow it.
Although output has been increasing rapidly, there are no official estimates
of production, but it is generally assumed that its market value exceeds by
far that of any other cash crop.   This suggests that agricultural  incomes,
including those derived from qat, are substantially higher than shown in the
national accounts.
2.15      Farm  Technology.   The  farmers  have  highly  developed  traditional
skills in soil conservation, water harvesting and land preparation; on the
other hand, irrigation is relatively recent, and the techniques are not well
developed.   Even  in the absence of an extension  service,  farmers  in many
villages have started to use small quantities of chemical fertilizers and
there has been considerable expansion of dug wells for irrigation during the
last decade.  Apart from the above changes and the use of tractors for initial
ploughing, production techniques remain basically traditional.  Nevertheless,
experience from other projects indicates that the farmers are highly profit
motivated, responsive to demonstration,  and adopt proven improved techniques
of production.
2.16      Agricultural Institutions.   MAF has  governorate offices  in Dhamar
and Sanaa but, being recently established, the Ministry's presence in these
governorates is small and largely ineffective.   Only a few extension agents
work in the areas serving an insignificant number of farmers.   The project
would remedy the situation by establishing an extension service, which would
be the core of the Ministry's support service in the areas.
2.17      On-going   Projects.    The   British   Government-supported   Dhamar
Agricultural and Forestry Research and Development Project (DAFRD) has been
operating in the Dhamar Governorate since 1981.  The team includes experts in
extension, agronomy, forestry, horticulture, livestock, farm machinery, and
farm management.  The project has carried out trials and demonstrations with
cereals, alfalfa, potatoes, and vegetables though mostly under irrigated
conditions.   The  team has  also worked  with  the  limited  staff  of  MAF  in
providing  extension  services.   In  addition,  there  is  a  British-supported



-13-
veterinary service project as part of a national program to establish
veterinary service; a Potato Seed Multiplication Project, supported by the
Dutch Government, produces high-quality potato seeds for distribution to
farmers, and USAID is active in fruit tree development focusing on production
of seedlings  and training  of horticulturists.   The  IDA-  and  IFAD-assisted
Agricultural Research and Development Project is being established in Dhamar.
The project would collaborate with and benefit from the above on-going
projects.
B. Development Potential and Technology
2.18      In rainfed  terraced areas  receiving more  than 450 mm,  there are
proven technological packages which can be applied to increase production.
For field crops, these include improved varieties, seed treatment, fertilizer
application,   inter-row  cultivation,   improved  seed-bed  preparation,  weed
control,  spraying  against  pests,  and  land  leveling.   If  these  are  done,
average  farm-level  yield  increases  of  40%  to  60%  can  be  obtained.   On
demonstration plots, sorghum and wheat yields have considerably exceeded 1.3
tons/ha, while for maize the corresponding yield exceeds 1.8 tons/ha.
2.19      The above technological packages can also be applied for field crop
development under irrigation.  On demonstration plots where improvements have
been introduced, grain yields per hectare of 3.0 to 4.8 tons for sorghum, 3.5
tons for wheat and 3.3 to 4.5 tons for maize have been recorded.  A number of
vegetable crops (tomatoes, peppers, melons, carrots, cucumbers, onion, and
garlic) are currently grown, each of which has potential for yield increase.
For tomatoes (the most important vegetable), with the use of improved variety,
careful attention to planting date and plant population, proper fertilization,
adequate control of early blight, and improved irrigation, yields of 25 to 30
tons per ha are achievable.
2.20      There is also considerable potential  for  increasing the yield of
tree  crops  through  improved  cultural  practices.   For  grapes,  existing
production techniques are traditional resulting in yields of 4 to 5 tons/ha.
Yields can be expected to increase to at least 12 tons/ha with improvement in
cultural practices.  Existing coffee is also low producing.   Experiences at
SURDP with new planting,  using  proper  spacing,  pruning,  regular watering,
treatment against insects and chemical fertilizing have produced yields of up
to 2.4 tons/ha  of dry beans.  Interest in citrus and sub-tropical fruits is
also  increasing and there are now many new but  small  plantations.   Plant
spacing permits inter-cropping with alfalfa or beans during the first three
years. Yields of at least 18 tons/ha can be expected from mature trees.
2.21      Given the already demonstrated responsiveness of the farmers,  the
key constraint to reaching the foregoing crop potentials is inadequate
awareness by the farmers of these and the means of achieving them.  Extension
packages exist for a first generation of development in certain areas, but the
service to deliver these is not in place and at present there are no suitably
qualified  extension  staff.   The  project  would  improve  this  situation  by
building up an extension service for the area.



-14-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Design Features
3.01      The project would be the first phase of an agricultural development
program in the Central Highlands.   It would develop a target area of about
16,430  ha  cultivated  by  about  8,325  farmers!/.   The  key  determinants  of
project size are the availability of trained extension agents and the rate of
progressive adoption by farmers of the technologies to be recommended.
3.02      Agricultural  development  would  be  promoted  in  terraced  areas
receiving more than 450 mm rainfall or where farmers have irrigation.
Terraces on which rainfed crops would be grown have an accumulation of topsoil
and stored water runoff  from higher  slopelands.   Development  packages  for
rainfed terraces would be taken from areas withi similar rainfall in SURDP and
from actual though limited demonstrations carried out in the area.  Irrigated
packages for field crops and vegetables depend on results from ARS and SURDP
experience  and  from  the  UK-assisted  research  station  in  Dhamar.   Coffee,
subtropical fruit, and grape potentials are based on actual experience in the
area and from demonstrations carried out by the USAID-financed horticultural
project. Rainfed packages are simple, involving mainly seed treatment,
fertilizer use, plant protection, and improved varieties.
B. Objectives
3.03      The key objective of the proposed project is to improve farm income
through production and productivity increases.  The project would also help to
improve the quality of life of the rural population by providing them with
potable water. To achieve the above objectives, the project would finance the
components described below.
C. Description
3.04      The  project,  which  would  be  implemented  during  1984-88,  would
include the following components:  building up of the extension service for
the proposed project area; construction of rural water supply schemes;
studies; and establishment of an organization for project implementation.  In
addition to this project, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
has already approved separately a loan of about US$10.5 million equivalent to
finance the following investment in the project area: improvement of existing
irrigation  schemes,  plantation  establishment,  improvement  of  rural  roads,
nursery development, and construction of a branch office for the Cooperative
and Agricultural Credit Bank; this investment complements the project.
1/  The target area is projected to be reached by about 1992.  The area which
would be developed partially or fully during the project implementation
period is projected to be about 3,260 ha.



-15-
3.05      Extension  Development.   This  would  include  construction  of  four
block centers, and 20 houses for the staff of block centers; construction of
21  extension  centers-cum-living  quarters  for  agents-1;  recruitment  and
training of extension agents; training of farmers; provision of cars and
motorcycles (Annex 1, Table 2); and provision of foreign experts to provide
backup support to the extension agents.  There would be two block centers in
each governorate which would be located at strategic points to serve several
extension centers.  The block centers are expected to be located at Al Jumah,
Mabar, Matnah, and Bani Mansur.  Locations of the extension centers would be
determined during the course of project implementation, but the likely sites
are shown in Map IBRD 17323.
3.06      About  34 man-years  of  internationally recruited  consultants  (two
senior extension advisors; a specialist in plant protection; two experts each
in livestock, farm machinery, home economics and extension agronomy; a
horticulture specialist; and a fruit tree production technician) would be
provided  at  a cost  of about  US$45,000/man-year.   These would  set  up  the
extension service, develop extension programs and guide their implementation,
train counterpart staff, and provide technical backstopping to local extension
staff. ODA would finance the experts needed for the Dhamar Governorate while
IDA and IFAD would finance the rest. Assurances were obtained that the senior
extension advisor to be financed by IDA and IFAD would be recruited not later
than January 1, 1985 and the other internationally recruited extension
specialists financed by IDA and IFAD not later than July 1, 1985 (para
6.01(b)).
3.07      The extension service would be the core of MAF's field service in
the project area.  Because of the serious shortage of trained professionals in
the country, and due to the preference to train extension agents from
localities where they would eventually return to work, the project would
select trainees from the project area to be trained, starting in early 1984,
by SURDP staff in cooperation with staff of the Regional Agricultural Research
Center at Taiz. As the training cycle runs for about 1-1/2 years, the initial
field deployment of newly trained extension agents would start in late 1985,
and they would be ready for extension activity in the 1986 crop season.
Allowing  for  possible  dropouts  from  the  training  program  and  possible
defections to other fields of work, allowance has been made for training twice
the number who enter the project.  The training program has been tested under
SURDP and has proven to be successful.   The number of extension staff who
would  be  available  by  source  and  year  is  shown  in  Annex  1,  Table  3.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would train at least 20 new
extension agents per year for the project starting in 1984 until the project
is completed (para 6.01(c)).
I/ The total number of extension centers which would be built, staffed and
equipped during the project implementation period would be 34; each center
would be staffed by one extension agent.  Out of these, 11 are expected to
be built under the Agricultural Research and Development Project (Credit
1259-YAR), and two already exist. The proposed project would, in addition
to constructing, equipping, and staffing the above mentioned 21 centers,
would supply the other 13 centers with the necessary equipment and staff.



-16-
3.08     The project would also provide foreign training to about 10 extension
specialists (extension agronomy, plant protection, livestock, farm machinery
and  home  economics)  for  up  to  two  years  each.   In  addition,  funds  and
equipment would be provided for training of farmers.  This would be done on a
continuous basis by the extension agents with assistance from subject matter
specialists, research staff, and foreign experts.
3.09     Rural Water Supply Schemes.  Fifteen water supply schemes would be
constructed  to serve about 45,000  people eventually.   Typically,  the works
would include construction of access roads, drilling and equipping wells with
diesel pumps housed in masonry structures, water transmission piping to
storage reservoirs constructed at higher elevations, and distribution piping
to deliver water to the surrounding villages.  Presently, water  supply for
irrigation and drinking purposes is obtained from shallow wells and a few
perennial springs. However, only limited knowledge is presently available on
the potential of the aquifers.  Therefore, the specific location of the wells
would be selected during the course of project implementation based on
information obtained in a detailed hydro-geological survey to investigate
groundwater resources.   Before designing the schemes,  availability of water
would have to be confirmed through a hydro-geological study, being financed
under  the  Project  Preparation  Facility  (PPF)  under  terms  of  reference
acceptable to IDA.  The 15 water supply schemes would be selected based on the
results  of  this  study.   The  design  work  would  be  finalized  during
implementation in consultation with and participation of the beneficiaries.
Meanwhile,  the cost estimate for the component is based on experience from
similar schemes under SURDP.  The water supply systems upon completion would
be turned over for operation and maintenance to the LDAs in which the
beneficiaries  are  organized.   The  eligibility  criteria  for  financing  the
schemes are in Para. 4.08.
3.10     Studies.   The project would include funds for study of a possible
second phase project that may include areas in the eastern provinces.   The
study would also investigate the possibility of expanding the irrigated area
in the two project governorates and in the Governorates of Ibb and Taiz
through construction of small dams and diversion weirs to collect runoff from
torrential rains.  The study is projected to be completed by June 30, 1986;
it would be done by a consulting firm to be selected in consultation with
IDA. The terms of reference for the study would be reviewed by IDA.
3.11     Project Administration.   Funds would be provided  for setting up a
Project Organization.  The project includes funds for purchase of vehicles and
office equipment, and for financing internationally recruited consultants and
recurrent  costs  of  local  staff  and  other  expense  items  through  the
implementation phase.



-17-
D. Implementation Schedule
3.12     The first year of the project  is expected  to be used mainly  for
building up the organization for the project's implementation, including the
recruitment   of  key   local  and  internationally  recruited   staff.    Some
demonstration of improved technological packages on farmers' fields would
commence in 1985 using existing extension agents, but most would begin in the
1986 crop season.  The timing for construction of block centers and extension
centers, and for the procurement of vehicles and demonstration supplies would
be linked to the timing for the deployment in the field of extension agents.
Construction of the rural water supply schemes building would commence in 1985
and would be completed by 1988.
E. Cost Estimate
3.13     The  cost  of  the  project,  including  physical  contingencies  and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated to be YRls 90 million
(USW20 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$lO.9 million or 54%.
The base cost estimate is calculated using unit costs for various items
prevailing at the time of appraisal, adjusted to the end of 1983; it does not
include  taxes  as  the  project  will  be  exempt   from  taxes.   Physical
contingencies have been computed at 10% for buildings and 15% for construction
of water  supply  schemes.   Allowances  for expected  price  increases  on  the
foreign exchange component have been computed at annual rates of 7.5% in 1984,
7% in 1985 and 6% per year for 1986, 1987, and 1988; for the local component,
the allowances are 10% per year.   The cost estimates are summarized below.
Details on schedules of expenditures are shown in Annex 1, Table 4.



-18-
Project Cost Estimate
Foreign
Item                  Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange
----(YRls Million(----    -----(UST Million) -----
Extension Development            15.4     14.9      30.3       3.4      3.3     6.7        49
Rural Water Supply                5.0     16.0      21.0       1.1      3.6      4.7       76
Studies                           1.6      3.8       5.4       0.4      0.8      1.2       67
Project Administration            7.4      3.4      10.8       1.6      0.8      2.4       33
Base Cost                      29.4     38.1     67.5        6.5      8.5    15.0        57
Contingencies:
Physical (6%)/1                  1.4      2.9      4.3        0.3      0.6      0.9       67
Expected Price Increase (25%) 10.3       7.9      18.2       2.3      1.8     4.1        44
Subtotal                         11.7     10.8     22.5        2.6      2.4      5.0       48
Total Project Cost               41.1     48.9      90.0       9.1     10.9   20.0         54
/1 This is an average for all project components (see para. 3.13).



-19-
F. Financing
3.14      The IDA credit of US$8 million and an IFAD loan of US$4 million
would help to finance all project components.  The Government of the UK has
proposed to contribute about US$1.0 million to finance expatriate consultants
for the extension service of Dhamar Governorate. The balance of the project
cost would be financed by the Government (US$5.5 million), and  LDAs (UStl.5
million).
3.15      Based on the above, the project's financing plan is summarized below:
Financing Plan /1
Item           IDA         IFAD         ODA      Government          LDAs           Total
------------------------------(US$ Million)-----------------------
Extension
Development        3.1          1.5          1.0         3.3               -            8.9
Water Supply         3.3          1.7          -            -                 1.5          6.5
Studies              0.9          0.5          -            -                             1.4
Project              0.3          0.7          -            2.2               -            3.2
Administration
Total            8.0          4.0          1.0          5.5              1.5         20.0
/1 Including contingencies.



-20-
As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government would be
required to submit to IDA satisfactory evidence that the execution and
delivery, on behalf of the Borrower, of the IFAD Loan Agreement, and ODA Grant
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action and all other conditions precedent to effectiveness of the loans have
been fulfilled (para 6.02).
G. Procurement
3.16      Vehicles that would be needed by the extension service and project
administration (costing about US$0.4 million including allowances for spare
parts and contingencies) would be procured following international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines.  Project buildings and the
water supply schemes would be constructed over three years in scattered and
remote locations and are unlikely to be attractive to contractors not already
represented   locally.    Therefore,   they  woulcl  be  tendered  under   local
procurement procedures.  Local procedures are competitive and allow bids from
foreign contractors; they are acceptable to IDA.  Contracts under components
financed by ODA would be let out following procurement procedures of that
organization.   All other project  cost  items  are recurrent  expenditures  and
assorted small purchases against which IDA ftnds would not be disbursed.
Procurement of vehicles for the extension service and project administration,
and tendering for water supply schemes and buildings for the extension service
would be centralized under the Project Manager.  For goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more, IDA would review and approve tender
documents before they are issued.
3.17      The  procurement  procedures  and  amounts  for  the  various  project
elements are shown below;
Project Element                                  Procurement Method /1
Not
ICB      LCB         Others  Applicable Total
----------------(U $ Million)---------------
Civil Works                       -       10.7         -         -        10.7
(4.6)                           (4.6)
Equipment                        0.4        -          -         -         0.4
(0.3)                                    (0.3)
Consultant Services               -         -          -        5.2        5.2
(3.1)     (3.1)
Others                            -         -        3.7         -        3.7
Total                         0.4     10.7        3.7        5.2      20.0
(0.3)    (4.6)       (-)       (3.1)     (8.0)
/1 Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit; they do not include amounts financed by IFAD on joint basis
with IDA.



-21-
H. Disbursement
3.18      The proposed IDA credit of US$8 and IFAD loan of US$4 million would
be disbursed over 5 1/2 years as follows;
Category                    % of Expenditures to be Financed
(a)  Vehicles (US$0.4 million)           100% of foreign expenditures
(b)  Civil works contracts for
construction of water supply
schemes (US$3.3 million)                            60%
(c)  Civil works contracts for
buildings
(US$3.1 million)                                    851%
(d)  Consultant services
(US03.2 million)                                   100,%
(e)  Water supply study-PPF /1
(US$1.0 million), and                              100%
(f)  Unallocated (US$1.0 million)
Disbursement would be made following receipt of standard documentation.   An
estimated schedule of disbursements of the IDA credit is summarized below and
detailed in Annex 1, Table 5.
IDA Fiscal Year
Disbursements         1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
…US$Mil ion  …-
Annual              1.8    1.9    1.2    1.0   11    1.0
Cumulative          1.8    3.7    4.9    5.9    7.0    8.0
The above estimates are based on projected phasing of the project's execution
in terms of the timing for delivery of vehicles, the rate of construction of
buildings and the water supply schemes, projected timing for hiring of
consultants, and estimated timing for carrying out studies.  The disbursement
profile for the agricultural sector in YAR (based on a sample period of
FY74-83  covering  12  projects  of  which  3  have  been  completed)  shows
disbursements extending over about 7 1/2 years, but the shorter disbursement
period under the project is based on the following considerations; (a) 3
percent of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against vehicles for
extension and project administration and the bulk of these vehicles are
expected to be delivered by the end of the second year of the project, (b) 12
percent would be disbursed against a hydrogeological study for which funds
under  the  PPF  have  already  been  approved,  and  (c)  25  percent  would  be
disbursed against consultants for extension, project administration, and
/1 This includes cost of drilling test wells, some of which could be
converted to production wells.



-22-
studies, and most of the consultants are projected to be recruited not later
than the second year.-  The remaining 60 percent of the IDA credit would be
disbursed  against  buildings  and  water  supply  schemes.   The  buildings  are
simple, designs of similar buildings are available, and there is adequate
capacity  in the country to carry out  the works.   There would  be  15 water
supply schemes, and expereince under SURDP II (where 100 schemes are being
constructed) shows that such works could be completed in a short time.
I. Environmental Impact
3.19      The project would have no detrimental  impact  on  the environment.
Changes in land use would be minimal.  Care would be taken by the extension
service to avoid the negative effect from use of plant protection chemicals.
Their transportation and use, and the disposal of empty containers would be
done under guidance from the extension service also.  All of the above would
be monitored during the course of project implementation.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Implementing Agencies
4.01      General.  The MAF would be responsible for implementing the project
(an  organigram  is  shown  in  Chart  World  Bank  25171.)   To  carry  out  its
responsibilities, the MAF would appoint a Project Manager and support staff
with responsibilities for;  preparing project operational plans; coordinating
the preparing project progress reports and a completion report; identifying
implementation bottlenecks and taking appropriate measures to resolve them;
processing tender documents; administering training of extensionists; keeping
consolidated project accounts; supervising the studies to be undertaken under
the project; and liaising with other government agencies and external donors
on matters concerning the project.  An Engineering Services Section under the
Project Manager, consisting of internationally -recruited consultants and local
counterparts would be responsible for: designinrg the water supply schemes and
preparing tender documents, evaluating tenders, and supervising- c-onstruction
of these schemes. The staff would also process tender documents for procuring
vehicles, and for constructing the block and extension centers, and building
for project  administration.   Assurances were   obtained  that  the  expatriate
staff of the Engineering Services Section would be recruited not later than
January 1, 1985 (para 6.01(d)).



-23-
4.02      MAF's regional branches for Dhamar and Sanaa Governorates would, in
the respective governorates, supervise all extension activities; coordinate
with CACB in the distribution of inputs;  and prepare progress reports.  The
directors of the regional offices would serve as Deputy Project Managers.
List of project staff is shown in Annex 1, Table 6.
4.03      Extension Service.  The extension service in each governorate would
operate under an overall direction of the respective Deputy Project Manager.
The Deputy Project Manager would be assisted by an internationally recruited
senior extension advisor who would be responsible for extension programming
and   implementation.    The   senior   advisor   would   be   assisted   by   one
internationally recruited specialist each in the fields of livestock, home
economics, farm machinery, and local counterparts in these fields who would
also receive on-the-job training; there would also be one specialist each in
the field of plant protection and fruit tree production who would serve both
governorates.   The senior advisor and  specialists would be responsible  for
translating the extension programs into extension packages using relevant data
from research and other projects.  Following monthly meetings at block center
level, the specialist staff would meet at governorate level to review
progress, to discuss and agree on future programs.  The home economist would
work through block centers making contacts with women groups through local
associations and through the families of leader farmers.
4.04      Each block center would be administered by a supervisor who would
report  to the Deputy Manager;  the supervisor would also serve as the link
between  extension  and research.   The block center would be  staffed  by  a
supervisor assisted by an expatriate extension agronomist and by three local
specialists (plant protection, livestock and farm machinery) to be recruited
mainly from among graduates of the Ibb Agricultural Secondary School and by
one other person who would serve as a storekeeper/clerk and messenger.   The
supervisor, with assistance of the extension agronomist at the block center,
would be responsible for preparing annual and monthly extension programs and
for developing topical monthly training courses. They would also visit agents
regularly in the course of their work to review and advise on their approach
and methods and would make regular scheduled and unscheduled visits to agents
in their charge.   Subject matter specialists would make  frequent visits to
village agents to review and assist in specific subjects as part of a monthly
program and to deal with  specific  enquiries  on request.   They would  also
participate in program formulation and training sessions.



-24-
4.05       The organization of extension at field level would be designed along
lines  similar  to those already proven under  SURDP.   Each village extension
agent would be expected to spend five days per week visiting the villages of
his area including visits for demonstrations, field days and farmer training.
He would visit the block center, at least monthly, to report on the previous
month's activities and problems, to discuss and agree on the program of visits
and work  for the following month,  to collect data,  and  to receive regular
topical in-service  training.  Leader  farmers nominated by the community,  in
consultation with the extensionists, would be the  initial and main contact
between the extension agent and the farm community.  Through the leader farmer
and his family, contact would also be made with female household heads who
otherwise might remain outside the influence of the extension service.   The
main  vehicle  for  conveying  extension  packages  would  be  through  field
demonstrations.
4.06      There  would  be  close  contact  between  extension  personnel  and
research staff.  The extension service would transmit to research scientists
technical problems confronting farmers so that these problems would be
incorporated in research programs. Research staff would also serve as subject
matter specialists.  Under the Agricultural Research and Development Project
(Credit 1259-YAR), research scientists are expected to involve the extension
agents in field verification trails during which intensive on-site training
would  be  provided  to  the  extension  agents.   Frequent  meetings  would  be
organized between research and extension staff to exchange  information.   The
Research Project also provides a liaison officer,  on a full time basis,  to
serve as the link between research and extension.  As part of the inservice
training of extension agents, tours would be organized on a regular basis to
research  centers.   The  senior  extension  staff would  ensure  that  extension
programming would  include regular  and  close  linkage between  extension  and
research.
B. The Borrower
4.07      The borrower of the IDA credit woulcL be the Government of the Yemen
Arab Republic.  The Government, through the MAF, would utilize the IDA credit
to finance; vehicles for the extension development and project administration
(US$0.3 million); civil works for construction of block centers, extension
centers, and an office building and water supply schemes (US$3.9 million); and
consultant services  (US$3.1 million).   The remaining US$0.7 million will be
unallocated./Il
C. Terms and Conditions of Financing Water Supply Scehmes
4.08      The  beneficiary  communities  of  the  water  supply  schemes  would
finance the entire cost of land for pump houses and water reservoirs, access
roads and the cost of water distribution network from storage reservoirs to
the villages. Assistance to the beneficiaries would depend on;
(a) approval by CYDA of the schemes' priority;
(b) agreement by the beneficiary communities to contribute their share
of project cost, and to deposit 10% of project costs in escrow upon
concluding the agreement with the project administration;
/1 The discussion in this paragraph refers to only IDA's financing.



-25-
(c)  agreement by  the  beneficiary  communities  to  bear  all  costs  of
operation and maintenance of the completed schemes and to properly
maintain the constructed schemes; and
(d) IDA's review and approval of the design of the Water Supply Schemes,
prior to their construction, in accordance with the standards set
out in Annex 1, Table 7.
Assurances were obtained that the above factors would be conditions for
financing the Water Supply Schemes (para 6.01(e)).  The completed water supply
schemes are envisaged to be operated and maintained by mechanics to be con-
tracted by the beneficiaries, with technical guidance and training from staff
of the Engineering Services Unit; a similar arrangement is being applied
satisfactorily under SURDP.
D. Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09       Responsibility  for preparing  progress  and  completion  reports, and
for monitoring and evaluation of the project would rest with MAF. The Project
Manager would coordinate the preparation of all reports and consolidate the
same for submission to IDA.
4.10       Progress reports would be prepared twice each calendar year covering
the periods January-June and July-December, and submitted to IDA not later
than September of the same year and March of the next year respectively.  The
first progress report would be due not later than March 31, 1985 covering the
progress  during July-December  1984.  The information  to be  included  in the
reports  and  suggested  format  for  presenting  data  have  been  reviewed  and
assurance to this effect obtained during negotiations  (para 6.01  (f)) .  MAF
would submit a completion report on the project not later than six months
after the project's completion or such later date as IDA and the Government
may agree. Assurances were obtained to this effect (para 6.01(g)).
4.11          Monitoring  and  evaluation  of  the  project  would  be  done  by
specialized staff consisting of an internationally recruited consultant and a
local counterpart; the project provides 2 1/2 man-years of internationally
recruited advisor at a cost of about US$45,000/man-year.  The unit would be
part of the Department of Planning, Statistics, and Follow-up of MAF, which
has already been established within the Ministry to, inter alia, monitor and
evaluate  agricultural  projects.   Monitoring  and  evaluation  staff  of  the
project would report directly to the Minister of Agriculture through the
General Director  of Planning,  Statistics,  and  Follow-Up.   Assurances  were
obtained that the M&E advisor would be recruited not later than January   1,
1986 (para 6.01(h)).  Assurance were also obtained that the Government would
conduct a mid-term project evaluation, in which IDA and co-financiers would be
invited to participate, not later than December 31, 1985 (para. 6.01(i)).
E. Accounts and Audits
4.12       The MAF would maintain  separate  accounts  of expenditures  on  the
project.   These  accounts,  maintained  according  to  sound  and  consistently
applied   accounting   principles,  would   accurately   reflect  receipts   and
expenditures undertaken for the project and clearly identify the goods and
services  procured  and  the works performed.  The accounts would be  audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.  A copy of the certified
audit reports, together with certified copies of the audited accounts, would



-26-
be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year;
similar procedure is being applied under SURDP.  The first audit report would
be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1985.  Assurances were obtained to this effect
(para 6.01(j)).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Impact on Production
5.01     General.   The  project  would  increase  the  production  of  sorghum,
wheat, maize, vegetables,  coffee and fruit.  The crops are not new to the
project area having been under cultivation for many years.  The project would
concentrate on increasing production in areas where the rainfall exceeds 450
mm per year and/or where there is supplementary irrigation.
5.02     The number of farmers who would participate in the project and the
area which can be developed would depend on the mobility of extension agents
and the area they could cover in the course of their work; the density and
size of villages and their distance from extension centers; the complexity of
technical  packages  and  consequent  frequency  of  required  visits  by  the
extension agents; the level of technical andl administrative backstopping
provided to the extension agents; maintenance of a continuing supply of
technical  innovations  for  extension;  and  the  farmer:agent  ratio.   These
factors and experience from SURDP have been taken into consideration in
determining the extension service needs of the project area.
5.03     Extension  Program  and  Adoption  Rateis.   The  available  extension
packages (paras. 2.18-2.20), developed primarily in the SURDP are simple and
applicable to the project area, and given convincing demonstrations could be
adopted in their entirety by farmers in the area.  Adoption is expected to be
highest  among  the  most  progressive  farmers  who  would  be  selected  for
demonstration purposes, and who would be in constant contact with extension
agents; adoption rates by other farmers would be less.
5.04     The organization of extension at field level would be designed along
lines similar to those already proven in SURDP.  The performance of extension
agents in establishing farmer contact and in promoting new techniques is also
based on experience at SURDP modified as necessary recognizing the more
difficult conditions in the Central Highlands.
5.05     From experience gained  in  SURDP,  a generally acceptable ratio  of
farmers  to village extension agent ranges  from 500:1  in areas where  only
simple rainfed practices are involved to 300:1 in predominantly irrigated
areas.  These ratios are modified for the project taking into account the more
rugged topography and the density of villages-,  on the average,  the ratio
would be 245:1.  The concentration of villages  in most or all areas would
require travel of about 25 km to the most distant village and an average
distance of about 5 km.
5.06     The following parameters have been used in projecting the number of
households to be reached in different years and the area to be developed:
(a)  each extension agent would establish contact, working closely with
and providing training to lead farmers beginning with five in his
first year, increasing to nine in his second year, and stabilizing
at 12 from the third year;



-27-
(b)  the  extension  agent  would  establish  at  least  one  appropriate
demonstration each year on land owned by each lead farmer.  During
his first year of participation, each lead farmer would select one
contact farmer who, with the extension agent's assistance, would
establish also a demonstration plot. By the second year, the number
of contact farmers per lead farmer would be expected to grow to
about 10 with some variation depending on location of the service
area. Each contact farmer would follow closely the practices being
introduced on the farm of the lead farmer;
(c) having observed results on lead and contact farmers' plots, other
neighboring farmers (followers) would begin to adopt some of the
practices demonstrated.  For each contact farmer there would be one
follower the year after; and
(d)  some  of  the  demonstration  plots  in  irrigated  areas  would  be
established  during  the  second  planting  season.   Most  would  be
concerned with annual crop production practices but others would be
concerned with machinery use and tree crop production techniques.
Based on the above and allowing for some variation depending on the location
of the service area, each extension agent would influence production on 240 to
250 farms by the fifth year of extension.  By the ninth year of the project,
all extension agents would influence production on about 8,325 farms.  From
this time, the number of extension beneficiaries is expected to stabilize with
some rotation of farmers joining and others leaving.   A steady flow of new
technological packages is essential for the continuing appeal of the extension
service.
5.07      The number of farmers who would be able to enter the project each
year, and the project areas owned by such beneficiaries which would be
developed are projected as follows;
Participating Farmers         Areas To Be Developed
Year         Annual    Cumulative          Annual    Cumulative
…-----…(ha) …
1984
1985             70           70              160          160
1986            455          525              965        1,125
1987          1,060        1,585            2,135        3,260
1988          1,740       3,325             3,440        6,700
1989         2,100        5,425             4,100       10,800
1990          1,700       7,125             3,390       14,190
1991          1,000       8,125             1,810       16,000
1992            200       8,325               430       16,430
The total area now cultivated by the 8,325 farm families amounts to 23,670 ha,
but  the project would develop only about  16,430 ha using known and proven
technology.  The number of farms represented by each model which would enter
the project at different times are shown in Annex 1, Table 8.



-28-
5.08     The process of technological adoption would start with improvements
that would yield good results, moving gradually to the more complex and riskier
innovations.  The initial effort would focus on use of improved varieties of
seeds (where applicable), and application of s,eed treatment and of improved
land  preparation.   Proper  use  of  chemical  fertilizers  is  expected  to  be
adopted more gradually.  Each farmer is projected to take 4-5 years to adopt
the recommended technological packages if these would not involve planting of
fruit and coffee; the period of development would be 8-9 years for farms where
fruit crops would be established.  For the project as a whole, the projected
adoption period would be about 15 years.  In response to the improved cultural
practices of production, average crop yields are projected to increase by
40-60%
5.09     Cropping Pattern and Production.    The existing and future cropping
pattern and production from the areas to be developed under the project (based
on average yields for different ecological zones, and rainfed and irrigated
areas) are shown below;
Future
Present                           Production /1
Area     Production /1   Area        Total        Incremental
ha)       ---(tons)----   (ha)       -------(tons)--------
Crops
Sorghum              9,475        8,480         9,340      12,140         3,660
Wheat                3,080        3,090         3,020       4,870          1,780
Maize                2,470        4,660         2,405       6,620          1,960
Vegetables /2           895      14,400          1,025     26,390        11,990
Alfalfa                 375       9,370            375     14,060         4,690
Fruit                  -            -              105      2,080         2,080
Coffee /3               60            36           160        189            153
Fallow                   75         -              -          -             _
By-Products:
Sorghum             -         25,450           -        36,420        10,970
Wheat               -          3,700           -         5,830         2,130
Maize               -         13,510           -        19,200         5,690
Total          16,430                     16,430
Crop outputs by years from areas to be developed under the project are shown
in Annex 1, Table 9.
/1  Outputs  of wheat  and vegetables  include  production  from double-cropped
areas.
/2  Including potatoes.
/3  The  output  of coffee would help  in  arresting  the  declining  trend  in
domestic production of the commodity.  Export of coffee has declined from
a high of YRls 10.2 million (US$ 2.3 million) in mid 1970's to about YRls
2.2 million (US$ 0.5 million) recently.   Some of the incremental output
may be exported, but since the quantity is insignificant it would have
little or no effect on the country's export trade in the commodity.



-29-
B. Marketing, Markets, and Prices
5.10      Marketing.  Marketing of agricultural products is basically free of
government intervention with the public sector's functions limited to the
collection  of  some  market  information.   Marketing  is  undertaken  almost
exclusively by the private sector and prices and market margins for domesti-
cally produced commodities are determined by the free interplay of demand and
supply.
5.11      Many smallholder  farmers sell their products  in urban markets  in
addition to selling through numerous marketing channels at the farm and
village centers.  The opening of several permanent shops in the countryside
along roads and in large villages replacing the weekly markets has expanded
the marketing outlets.  Cash remittances  from abroad have enabled a growing
number  of  villagers  to  own  transport  vehicles.   This,  combined  with  an
expanded network of rural roads, has provided farmers with a high degree of
mobility  and  access  to  market  centers.   Furthermore,  many  farmers  own
television and radio sets which also increase their awareness of factors
influencing production and marketing decisions.  The above implies a domestic
marketing structure and organization which provides an efficient flow of
information between consumers and producers.  This would be the environment
under which project outputs would be marketed.
5.12      The  Government's  direct  involvement  in  marketing  is  limited  to
imported foodstuffs.  A committee of public and private representatives under
the aegis of the Ministry of Trade and Supply (MTS) determines import require-
ments in the light of domestic demand and supply conditions.  Import quotas
are allocated to participating private importers and public corporations in a
ratio of 60:40 respectively.  Maximum prices are also fixed by the committee
for importers, wholesalers and retailers.  These are strictly observed at the
levels of import and wholesale with some 150 inspectors to monitor the prices
at the retail level; few retailers observe the price limits.  The pronounced
preference of Yemeni consumers for domestically produced foods presents
farmers with premium prices for their products despite the availability of
imported alternatives.
5.13      Markets.  All project outputs would be consumed domestically, except
for some of the coffee (some 100 tons) which may be exported.  With rapidly
rising demand for food caused by rising population and income, agricultural
imports,  particularly  food,  have  increased  substantially.   Although  the
country is making progress to satisfy part of the growing demand for food,
particularly sorghum and vegetables, it is likely to remain a net importer of
key grains in the foreseeable future; project outputs would be used to satisfy
part of this demand. As the incremental volumes, which would be attained over
an extended period of 15 years, would account for only a small proportion of
the total domestic supply and reduced imports, project outputs are not
expected to have an impact on the domestic price levels.
5.14      Prices.  Domestic prices have been used for financial evaluation of
the project's impact on the beneficiaries' income.  For computing the economic
rate of return (ERR), domestic prices have been used for non-tradeables (such
as crop by-products) and for commodities where there are no significant
differences between domestic and import prices.  For others, the prices used



-30-
have been derived from projections of international prices for comparable
commodities.  These are generally lower  than prices  of similar commodities
produced domestically reflecting the premium consumers attach to crops grown
in the country.  However, since the country has the option to import cheaper
commodities which are nutritionally comparabLe to crops grown domestically,
the lower international prices have been used for the economic analysis.  The
financial and economic prices are shown in Annex 1, Table 10.
C. Impact on Beneficiaries' Income.
5.15      Beneficiaries.  The 8,325 farm families who would benefit from the
agricultural development effort would represent about 45,000 people.  The farm
families are heterogeneous in their size and location of holdings,  types of
agriculture  practiced,  crops grown,  yields  obtained,  and  income.   To  take
account of these differences, six farm models have been prepared corresponding
to cropping systems in various ecological zones (Chapter II).  The number of
farms, total areas cultivated, and land to be developed for each model are
shown below:
Number of Farms    Area of Holding       Land To Be Developed
Model   Total    %        Per Farm  Total      Per Farm    Total
Area
…h    …_______-------ha-----------
1    4,000     48        3.0     12,000       2.4       9,600     58
2    2,400     29        2.0      4,800       1.9       4,560     28
3    1,000      12       5.0      5,000       1.2       1,200      7
4      600       7       1.2         720      0.4         240      2
5      125      2        6.0         750      3.6         450      3
6      200      2        2.0        400       1.9         380      2
Total  8,325    100                 23,670               16,430    100
The above data are based on results of an agricultural census conducted by MAF
during  1977-82.   The  present  cropping  pattern  on  total  area  of  holding
represented by each model, and the future cropping pattern on land to be
developed  under  the  project  are  shown  in  Annex  1,  Table  11  and  12
respectively. A description of the models is summarized below.
5.16      The  first model represents  farmers depending entirely  on rainfed
agriculture in terraced areas where the annual rainfall exceeds 450 mm.  The
average size of holdings is estimated at 3 ha of which only 2.4 ha can be
developed  by  introducing  seed  treatment;  using  improved  seeds,  chemical
fertilizers, and instecides; and by improving seed-bed preparation.
5.17      The  second model  represents  farmers  who  practice  agriculture  in
terraced  areas  under  rainfed  and  irrigated  conditions.   Average  size  of
holdings is estimated at about 2.0 ha (1.5 ha under rainfed and 0.5 ha under
irrigation) of which 1.9 ha would be developed.  Technological packages to be
introduced would be the same as for the first model, although the impact of
improved cultural practices would be different because of the irrigated area.



-31-
5.18      Farms represented by the third model are located in areas receiving
less than 450 mm of rainfall for which there are no proven technological
packages  for rainfed agricultural  development.   However,  there are existing
surface  and  groundwater  resources  which  can  be  used   for  irrigation
development. Average size of holdings is estimated at about 5 ha including
1.2 ha under irrigation.  Development under  the project would focus on the
irrigated area where yields can be improved through proper irrigation
practices, use of improved varieties of seeds, better timing and quality of
seed-bed preparation, and use of farm chemicals.
5.19      The  fourth model  is  representative  of  farms  with  potential  for
intensive production of high value crops under irrigation.  They are located
along wadi floors. Development would focus on production of vegetables, fruit
and coffee on an area of 0.4 ha out of a total holding of 1.2 ha.  The area
under perennial crops would be expanded.
5.20      The fifth model represents multi-family owned farms located in the
intermontane plains where development would focus on irrigation improvement.
Average size of holdings is estimated at about 6 ha including 2.4 ha currently
under  irrigation.   The  irrigated  area  would  be  increased  to  3.6  ha  by
improving irrigation efficiency.
5.21      The sixth model consists of farms which  include both rainfed and
irrigated cultivation in terraces.  Unlike the second model, where there is no
change in the cropping pattern and the area under irrigation, possibilities
exist on these farms for the expansion of the irrigated area and improvement
of rainfed agriculture.  Average size of holdings is estimated at 2 ha, of
which 0.5 ha is presently irrigated and about 1.9 ha would be developed.  By
improving the irrigation efficiency, enough water would be saved to double the
irrigated area and to increase the crop intensity.
5.22      Benefits.  At present, the net benefit to the farm family from all
areas owned by the farmers ranges between YRls 1,850 (US$410) for the first
model and YRls 10,110 (US$2,245) for model 5 with the corresponding return to
family labor of YRls 18 to 64 (US$4 to 14) per workday.  Under the project,
net farm benefits would increase by 70 to 100% on farms where there would be
no perennial crop development; for farms where there would be perennial crop
development, the incremental net benefits would exceed 200% but these would be
attained over a fairly extended period of about 9 years.  Thus, although the
project would develop only part of the area owned by the farmers, this effort
would have a substantial impact on the overall household income.  The costs
and benefits for each model are summarized below and detailed in Annex 1,
Tables 13-18.



-32-
Models
Item                    1        2         3         4         5         6
-----------------------(YRis) -
Present
Value of Production           8,820   13,960   21,850   18,560    41,800   13,960
Cost of Production /_         6,970    8,860   14,990    9,650    31,690    8,600
Net Farm Benefit:
Per Household               1,850    5,100    6,860    8,910    10,110    5,360
Per Family Workday             16        37        33       64         31        39
With Project
Value of Production          12,220   21,050   31,150   36,370   106,070   40,460
Cost of Production /1         9,130   11,450   16,490   11,770    56,065   17,600
Net Farm Benefit:
Per Household               3,090    9,600   14,660   24,600    50,005   22,860
Per Family Workday             24        62        64      135        100       118
5.23      The expenses the farmers would incur to get the above benefits would
be the cost of technological packages to be recommended by the extension
service.  The investment in building the institutional support services would
be public expenditures not chargeable to the farmers.  The direct expenses of
adopting the technological packages would increase the annual cost of
production by 10% to 30%.  Most farm households would finance the additional
expenses from their own resources and/or with assistance from relatives
working in oil producing countries.  A few are expected to borrow from CACB,
which has received IDA funds under the Agricultural Credit Project partly to
finance subprojects in the area.  The modest increase in the production cost
would  result  in a substantial  increase  in  family  income.   Therefore,  the
farmers would have substantial financial gains which would serve as incentives
for  them  to participate  in  the  project.   The  Government  would  also  gain
through increased annual tax receipts from an estimated YRls 5.8 million
(US$1.3 million) at present to about YRls 9.3 million (US$2.1 million) at full
development, an increase of about YRls 105 million (US$23.3 million) over the
estimated life of the project.
/1 Excluding family labor.



-33-
D. Economic Rate of Return
5.24      The economic rate of return (ERR) on investment in the agricultural
development  component  is computed at 27%.   This  is based  on the  following
assumptions and parameters;
(a)  the  cropping  pattern,  yields  and  their  development,  number  of
participants in the project and area cultivated by them, and rates
of adoptions of technological packages are as discussed in paras
5.02-5.09;
(b)  projected incremental output of crops by years as shown in Annex 1,
Table 9;
(c)  production  without  the  project  is  assumed  to  remain  unchanged
because insufficient extension service woule continue to be the main
constraint to the adoption by farmers of improved technological
packages, and without improved cultural practices no significant
increase in production can be expected;
(d)  prices of outputs are as shown in Annex 1, Table 10;
(e)  costs of production  of different  crops  as presented  in Annex  1,
Tables 19-25; and
(f)  the incremental cost of hired labor is valued at the market wage
rate (YRls 60/man day) determined by the free interplay of demand
and supply. Incremental family labor is shadow priced at zero since
supply of available household labor far exceeds demand. Despite the
excess supply of family labor, there continues to be demand for
hired labor (mainly to perform tasks the family considers unpleasant)
reflecting the premium the family attaches to leisure.
5.25      Even if the cost of the water supply is included in the cost, streams
without benefits attributable to this component, the ERR on the investment
would be satisfactory at 21%.   Results of other sensitivity tests are shown
below;
Combinations of Tests                      Economic Rate of Return
…_ _ __ _( %) …---------
(a) Agricultural Development only
Basic run                                                         27
20% increase in costs                                             21
20% decrease in benefits                                          20
Benefits lag by two years                                         17
20% decrease in benefits & 20% increase in costs                  14
Family labor valued at market wage rate                           20
Switching values at 12%:
benefits                                                       -37
costs                                                         +58



-34-
(b) Agricultural Development and Water Supply
Initial run                                                       21
20% increase in costs                                             16
20% decrease in benefits                                          15
Benefits lag by two years                                         14
20% decrease in benefits & 20% increase in costs                  10
Switching values at 12%
benefits                                                 -29
costs                                                    +41
5.26     The  net  present  value   (NPV)  of  the  agricultural  development
component, discounted at 12% over an assumed project life of 30 years, is
computed at YRls 79 million (US$17.5 million).  The economic cost and benefit
streams used in computing the ERR are shown in Annex 1, Table 26.  At full
development the incremental value of project commodities, valued at economic
prices, would amount to about YRls 55.0 million (US$12.2 million) per year,
which is equivalent to less than 2% of the recent level of major food and
agricultural imports.
E. Risks
5.27     As in other rainfed agricultural development projects, the project is
subject to risks associated with uncertaintiies concerning the amount and
timing  of rainfall.   In periods  of  low rainfall,  farmers  would  likely be
reluctant to apply fertilizers and may be extra cautious in the use of other
purchased inputs.  To remedy the situation and to build farmers' confidence,
the process of technological adoption would start first with improvements that
would give good returns without excessive risks such as seed treatment and use
of improved seeds,  inter-row cultivation,  and weed control.   It would move
gradually towards riskier investments such as use of chemical fertilizers.
Even  in the case of fertilizer use,  the extension service would  introduce
split application to minimize loss in case of poor rainfall and to maximize
benefits in periods of good rainfall.  As nitrogenous fertilizers are normally
leachable,  a split application could be used  for winter  crops which would
allow for better response in years of average--or-better rainfall.  When the
rainfall condition is poor, the second application can be eliminated as it
would have no impact on production.
5.28     There are also risks associated with possible slow start up of the
project.  An important factor to the success of the project is the speed with
which the project organization and the extension service would be established.
These would require timely recruitment of local and expatriate staff, and
training  of extension personnel.   The Government  is aware of the critical
steps in building up the project institutions, but whether it would follow the
proposed timetable depends on several factors such as the availability of
local and expatriate personnel, and the financial resources to pay for them.
The relatively generous financial rewards being allowed under the government's
pay scale for staff working in special projects, and the proximity of the area
to the capital city, may serve as incentives for local staff to join the



-35-
project.  Also, it may be possible to transfer to the project some staff who
have been under in-service training in other projects.  The Government would
soon have  to  start  aggressively  recruiting  expatriates.   Concerning  local
financing needs, the design of the project takes into account the capability
of the Government to contribute its share of the project cost by limiting the
project to manageable size.  Since the project is a top priority concern of
the Government, it is expected to receive priority in allocation of public
funds in the face of possible budgetary retrenchment.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During  negotiations,  assurances  were  obtained  that  the  Government
would:
(a)   not authorize drilling of new wells   for irrigation  in the
project area until hydrological studies which are on-going or
planned have proven availability of groundwater for additional
exploitation (para 2.08);
(b)   recruit the senior extension advisor financed by IDA and IFAD
not later than January 1, 1985 and the other internationally
recruited extension specialists financed by IDA and IFAD not
later than July 1, 1985 (para 3.06);
(c)   train  at  least  20  new  extension  agents  per  year  for  the
project starting in 1984 until the project is completed
(para 3.07);
(d)   recruit the expatriate staff of the Engineering Services
Section not later than January 1, 1985 (para 4.01);
(e)   ensure that financing of the Water Supply Schemes be con-
ditional on factors listed in para 4.08;
(f)   submit to IDA necessary data and information on all project
components through semiannual reports beginning with March 31,
1985 and every six months thereafter (para 4.10);
(g)   prepare and furnish to IDA a completion report on the project
not later than six months after the project's completion
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Government and IDA (para 4.10);
(h)   recruit a monitoring and evaluation advisor not later than
January 1, 1986 (para 4.11);
(i)   conduct a mid-term project evaluation, in which IDA and
co-financiers would be invited to participate, not later than
December 31, 1985 (para. 4.11); and
(j)   ensure  that  separate  project  accounts  would  be  kept,  that
these accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and that certified copies of the audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each fiscal year starting with the audit report for
the fiscal year ending on December 31, 1984 (para 4.12).



-36-
6.02      The following would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
IDA credit: the Government's submission to IDA of satisfactory evidence that
execution and delivery, on behalf of the Borrower, of the IFAD Loan Agreement
and ODA Grant Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action and all other conditions precedent to effectiveness of the
said loans have been fulfilled (para. 3.15).
6.03      Agreement having been reached on the above, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$8 million on standard terms.  The Borrower would be
the Government of Yemen Arab Republic.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population and Villages in the Project Districts
Sanaa Governorate
Al Haymat    Al Haymat
Item                                    Sanhan   Bilad Arrus   Bani Matar   Dakhiliyah   Kharijiyah    Total
Households
Total Rural Households                 5,130        2,160         8,170        7,160         6,230         28,850
Total Agricultural Households          4,150        2,040         6,790        6,050         4,970         24,000
Population
Total Rural Population                26,750       13,560        50,510       46,050        35,300        172,170
Agricultural Population               21,600       12,800        42,000       38,900        28,100        143,400
Agricultural Household Size                  5.2          6.3            6.2          6.4           5.7           6.0
Villages & Hamlets
Villages                                  42           43           235          148            262           730
Hamlets                                   14           11            93           290           229           741
Agricultural Households per Village    99              47            29            41            19            33
Dhamar Governorate
Dhamar        Mabar       Al Hada   Jabel As Sharg   Dawraan         Total
Households
Total Rural Households                14,050        5,640         5,860        3,020          7,000        35,570
Total Agricultural Households         12,210        4,430         5,450        2,880          5,670        30,640
Population
Total Rural Population                75,880       33,170        34,480       16,130        35,010        194,670
Agricultural Population               65,900       26,100        32,000       13,100        28,400        165,500
Agricultural Household Size                  5.4          5.9            5.9          4.5           5.0            5.4
Villages and Hamlets
Villages                                 216           48           191            97           364           916
Hamlets                                   51           17            73          221            122           484
Agricultural Households per Village    57              92            29            30            16            33
fHtm
rnXZ



-38-                            ANNEX 1
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicle Requirements
Item               Quantity      Unit Price/l   Total Value./2
Y-R RlsJ --  -(YRls '000)-
Extension Development
Pickups                       12             55,000              660
4 Wheel drive                 20             31,000              620
Motorcycles                   14              6,000               84
Project Administration
Pickups                        7             55,000              385
/1 Including spare parts.
7> Excluding allowance for expected price increases.



-39-                             ANNEX I
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Source of Extension Service Staff
Source                                       1984        1985       1986      1987
Ibb Agricultural Institute
From military service                    4 /          _          _
Directly after graduation /1             4 __        4 /2 
Existing in Project Area
Sanaa                                    1            -         -          -
Dhamar                                   3            _          _         _
Trainees for Appointment                     -          12 /3      12 /3      12 /3
Total Annual Input                          12          16         12         12
Annual Wastage 4/                            2           2          2          2
Net Addition                                10          14         10         10
Cumulative Total                            10          24         34        44
of which;
Village Extension Agents                 4          14        24         34
/1  Assuming that 10% of recruits from the project area now under military
service would become available for employment in the project area.
/2  Actual number of Ibb trainees who are from the Dhamar and Sanaa
governorates.
/3  Assuming 60% selected complete the training course.  Available for posting
about July-August of year shown.
4  Attrition during first year.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGhLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
Total Cost                              1984                           1985                            1986                             1987                            1988
Local   Foreige    Total    Ench.oge    Lotal   Foreign   Total           Local   Foeig        Total      Local   Foreigo      Total        Local   Foreige    Totol           Local   Foreign    Total
------(TK l           ------   ---(a' ) --    ------------------------------------------------(YRI '000).----------------------   -----------------------------------------------------------
teteosios ioolopm ept
Boildisga                         b,480    4,320       10,800        40         -         -         -          850       570     1,420      1,370        910     2,280       2,120       1,410      3,530        2,140      1,430    3,570
Vehiclos 6 Operating Coat           180    1,070        2,050        91         -         -         -           40       620        660         55      685         740          50        430        480            35        135       170
B.omatration Sapplies                65       715         780        92         -         _         _           15       235        250         20       280        300          15        100        115            15        100       115
Exte.aica Staff                   6,905    5,620       12,525        45         -         -         -          860    1,180      2,040      2,025    2,140       4,165        2,460      2,300      4,760        1,560           -    1,560
Tra-iinE of E.t...ejoiite         1,160    1,E00        2,960        61         240       -         240        360       -          360        390       900     1,290          170        900      1,070                  -               -
M-ecellmeoous Enpenase              595       570       1,165        49         -         -         -           85       150        235        180       230       410          165         95        260           165         95       260
boa2 15,385 14,095                                 30,280        49          240      -                  240  2,210    2,755  4,965      4,040    5,145       9,185       4,980      5,23910,215              3,915      1,7760    5,675
REaal Watet Sapply
Source Ieveetigatice                920    3,970        4,890        81         920    3,970    4,890            -         -          -          -         -          -           -          -          -             -          -         -
Ccat, tuc-c   E Schemes           4,035   12,108       16J135        7 5          -         -         -        540    L±?2       3J          ,8       3,40       4,28         108           40 4Q2               LL4L       4,000    5,3
SubLotal                      4,935   16,070       21,025        76         920    3,970    4,890          540    1,620       2,160      1         3,240      4,320       1,080      3,240      4,320         1,335      4,000     5,335
Studios of Phone 11                 1,620    3,790        5,410        70         -         -         -        1,080    2,530      3,610         540    1,260       1,800           -          -          -             -          -         -
Pojoct Ads,i-ertration
Aduinis-traice Statf              3,980       -         3,980        -          500       -         500        825       -          825        885       -          885         885          -        885           885          -       885
Eng.neertag Services Stoff        2,320    1,600        3,920        41         -         -         -          600       480     1,080         600      480      1,080          560        320        880           560        320       880
MhE Staff                           300       480         780        61         -         -         -          -         _          -          100       160        260         100        160        260           100        160       260
VEhioles 4 Oper-ting Cost           115       830         945        88          35       510       545         20        80        100         20       80         100          20         80        100            20         80       100
Oftice Space 6 FPrnit-re            540       475       1,015        47          70       170       240        215       305       020          85      -            85          85          -         85           85           -        85
tlincellaoecus topoonon             100       -           160        -          -         -                     25       -           25        45        -           45          45          -         45            4
Subtotal                      7,415    3,385       10,800        31         605       680    1,285       1,685       865      2,550      1,735       720      2,435                    560      2,255         1,695        560    2,255
Total b..e Cost                    29,375   38,140       67,515        56       1,765    4,650    6,415        5,515    7,770    13,285        7,395   10,365      17,760       7,755      9,035    16,790         6,945       6,320   13,265
Coot ingest inn
Physical                          1,410    2,875        4,285        67         140       595       735        190      330        520         300      580        880          370        630      1,000          410         740    1,150
Enpec-ed Prce-  Increase         10,305    7,900       18,205        43          95       200       295        910      890      1,800      2,080     1,970      4,050        3.2<0      2,510      5,760        3,970      2,330    6,300
Subtotal                     11,715   10,775       22,490        48         235        79    1,030       1,100    1,210       2,320      2,380    2,550       4,930       3,620      3,140      6,760         4,380      3,070    7,450
G-snd Total                        41,090   40,915       90,005        54       2,000    5,445    7,445        6,615    8,980    15,605       9,775   12,915    22,690         11,375    12,175    23,550        11,325      9,390    20,715



-41-                                ANNEX 1
Table 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year          Quarterly Disbursement         Cumulative Disbursement
amd Quarter Ending                                                     Percentage
-------------------US$ Million-------
1985
September 30, 1984          0.3                       0.3           3.7
December 31, 1984           0.3                       0.6           7.5
March 31, 1985              0.7                       1.3          16.2
June 30, 1985               0.5                       1.8          22.5
1986
September 30, 1985          0.3                       3.1          26.2
December 31, 1985           0.5                       2.6          32.5
March 31, 1986              0.6                       1.2          40.0
June 30, 1986               0.5                       3.7          46.2
1987
September 30, 1986          0.3                       4.0          50.0
December 31, 1986           0.3                       4.3          53.7
March 31, 1987              0.3                       4.6          57.5
June 30, 1987               0.3                       4.9          61.2
1988
September 30, 1987          0.3                       5.2          65.0
December 31, 1987           0.3                       5.5          58.7
March 31, 1988              0.2                       5.7          71.2
June 30, 1988               0.2                       5.9          73.7
1989
September 30, 1988          0.2                       6.1          76.2
December 31, 1988           0.3                       6.4          80.0
March 31, 1989              0.3                       6.7          83.7
June 30, 1989               0.3                       7.0          87.5
1990
September 30, 1989          0.4                       7.4          92.5
December 31, 1989           0.6                       8.0         100.0



-42-                                  ANNEX 1
TabTe 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Staff
Number
Expatriate    Local    Total
Administrative Staff
Project Manager                                   -           1          1
Deputy Managers                                   -           2          2
Administration Officers                           -           2          2
Public Relations Officers                         -           2          2
Accountant                                         -          1          1
Purchaser                                         -           1          1
Secretaries                                       -           2          2
Drivers                                           _           3          3
Messenger                                         -           1          1
Guards                                            _           2          2
Subtotal                                                     17         17
Engineering Services Staff
Chief Engineer                                    1           -          1
Civil/Irrigation Engineer                          1          -          1
Design Engineers                                  2           -          2
Hydrogeologist                                     1          -          1
Surveyors                                         -           2          2
Supervisors                                       -           2          2
Draftsmen                                         -           2          2
Engineers                                         _           2          2
Subtotal                                          5           8         13
Extension Staff
Senior Extension Advisors                         2           -          2
Plant Protection Specialists                       1          6          7
Livestock Specialists                             2           6          8
Farm Machinery Operation & Maintenance
Engineers                                   2           6         8
Female Extensionists                               2          -          2
Extension Agronomists                             4           -          4
Fruit Tree Production Technician                   1          -          1
Supervisors                                       -           4          4
Extension Agents                                             34         34
Storekeepers/Messengers                                       4          4
Subtotal                                         14          60         74
Monitoring and Evaluation                            1           1         2
Total                                            20          86        106



-43-
ANNEX 1
Table 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Criteria for Rural Water Supply Schemes
Average Design Period                     15 years or capacity of water source.
Per Capita Consumption                    Not to exceed 45 liters/day (lcd).
Well Location, Construction
and Spacing                            To be determined by hydrogeological study.
Pumps                                    Vertical turbine/submersible.
Pump Drive                               Diesel oil engine drive/electric motor (if
electricity is available).
Provide 30 day supply fuel oil tank.
Pump House                               Concrete block with reinforced concrete
frame structure and roof.
Piping and fittings                      Galvanized steel/PVC.
Filtration (if required)                  Slow and filters.
Distribution and Storage Tank             Reinforced concrete structure with roof,
access, overflow and drainpipes. Provide
12 hours minimum storage capacity. Tanks
to be ground storage type.
Distribution Network                     Maximum distance to any public fountain
should not exceed 200 m. Each fountain to
be with 1 to 4 taps as required. Maximum
of 200 people per tap. House connection
diameter not exceeding 1/2 inch.
Access Road                              Gravel or equivalent with concrete pipe
culverts as required.



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative Number of Farmers Participating in Project
Models
Project Year           1          2        3         4         5       6        Total
1                      -          -        -         -         -       -        -
2                     20          -        -         -        10      40       70
3                    180        100       40        30        65    110       525
4                    600        400      160       100       125    200   1,585
5                  1,500        900      400       200       125    200   3,325
6                  2,600      1,500      600       400       125    200   5,425
7                  3,500      2,000      800       500       125    200   7,125
8                  3,900      2,300   1,000        600       125    200   8,125
9                  4,000      2,400   1,000        600       125    200   8,325



yEMEN AIIAII REPUBLIC
CENT'RAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURhAL DEVELOPMIENT PStOJECT
Crop Output from Areas to be Developed Under Project
W ithout
Proiect   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990       91    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Model I 
Sorghum                 6,110    6,110   6,120   6,210   6,350   6,760   7,360   8,000   8,480   8,740   8,820   8,840   8,840   8,840   8,840   8,840
Wheat                   1,800    1,800   1,800   1,800   1,830   1,900   2,060   2,300   2,530   2,690   2,770   2,800   2,800   2.800   2.800   2,8oo
lXize                      960      960     960     960     960      970   1,000   1,070   1,180   1,290   1,380   1,420   1,440   1,440   1,440   1,440
Model1 2
Sorgum                  2,160    2,160   2,160   2,180   2,250   2,390   2,590   2,800   2,970   3,070   3,110   3,120   3,120   3.120   3,120   3,120
Wheat                     650       650     650     650     660      690     740     820     900      960     990   1,000   1,010   1,010   1,010   1,010
lXize                   2,020    2,020   2,020   2,030   2,090   2,220   2,410   2,610   2,780   2,890   2,940   2,950   2,950   2,950   2.950   2 950
Vegetables              7,200    7,200   7,200   7,200   7,300   7,650   8,350   9,350  10,400  11,250  11,750  11,950  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000
Model 3
Wheat                      540      540     540     540      570     610     660     720      770     800     81lo     810     810     810    810    810
haize                      72U      720     720     730     750      810     880     940   1.010   1,040   1,050   1,050   1,050   1,050   1.050   1,050
Vegetables              2,250    2,250   2,250   2,250   2,280   2,390   2,630   2,920   3,240  -3 540   3,690   3.750   3.750   3.750   3,750   3,750
Potato                  1,950    1,950   1,950   1,950   1,980   2,080   2,310   2,570   2,850   3,120   3,240   3,300   3,300   3,300   3.300   3,300
Alfalfa                 7,500    7,500   7,500   7,500   7,510   7,600   7,870   8,400   9,100   9,900  10,570  11,020  11,250  11,250  11,250  11,250
lSodel 4
laize                     430       430     430     410      360     290     140      70        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -
Vegetables              1,350    1,350   1,350   1,370   1,450   1,630   '.i50   2,320   2,700   2,900   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000
Fruit (Citrus)              -         -       -        -       -       -       -       3       22      75     190      375     600     830      980   1,060
Coffee                     36        36      36      36       36      36      37      42       53      70      95      117     136     147      153     156
Sorghum                     35       35      35      20       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -       - 
Wiheat                     45        45      50      90     120      120     140     140      140     140     140      140     140     140      140     160      1
Maize                      360      360     390     560      750     770     790     790      790     790     790      790     790     790      790     790      kn
Vegetables                560       560     560     700   1,020   1,340   1,490   1,560   1,560   1,560   1,560   1,560   1,560   1,560   1,560   1,560          1
PRotato                   490       490     490     540     840   1,220   1,320   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380
Alfalfa                 1,870    1,870   1,870   1,880   1,950   2,140   2,420   2,680   2,810   2,810   2,810   2,810   2,810   2,810   2,810   2,810
Fruit (Grapes)               -        -       -        -       -       2      17      57      120     195     264      300     300     300      300     300
llodel 6
Sorghum                   180       180     ISO     170     160      170     180     180      ISO     ISO     ISO      180     180     180      ISO     ISO
Wheat                      55        55      60      70      80      100     100     110      110     110     110      110     110     Ito      110     110
Itaize                     170      170     190     240      330     370     380     390      390     390     390      390     390      390     390     390
Vegetables                600       600     660     820   1,100   1,310   1,430   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,5W0
Fruit (citrus)               -        -                                        8         54   170     360     550      680     720     720      720     720
Coffee                       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        2       7       Is      20      25       30      30      30
Aggregt   o   llZdl
Srghu-       Al odl    8,480    8,480   8,480   8,580   8,760   9,320  10,130  10,980  11,630  11,990  12,110  12,140  12,140  12,140  12,140  12,140
Wheat                   3,090    3,090   3,100   3,150   3,260   3,420   3,700   4,090   4,450   4,700   4,820   4,860   4,870   4,870   4,1170   4,870
Maize                   4,660    4,660   4,710   4,930   5,240   5,430   5,600   5,870   6,150   6,400   6,550   6,600   6,620   6,620   6,620   6,620
Vegetables             11,960   11,960  12,020  12 340  13 150  14.320  15.850  17,650  19,400  20 750  21 320  21,760  21,810  21,810  21,810  21,810
Potato                  2,440    2,440   2,440   2,490   2,820   3,300   3,630   3,950   4.230   4.500   4,520   4,580   4.580   4,580   4,580   4,580
Alfalfa                 9,370    9,370   9,370   9,380   9,460   9,740  10,290  11,080  11,910  12,710  13,380  13,830  14,060  14,060  14,060  14,060   F]1
Fruit                                                                                                                                                          93
Citrus                    -         -       -       -       -8                      57     192      435     740   1,055   1,320   1,550   1,700   1,780   FI>
Grapes                    -         -       -       -       -        2      17      57      120     195     264      300     300     300      300     30        tl
Coffee                     36        36      36      36      36       36      37      42      .55      77     110      137     161     177      183     189   mD>
By-products 
Sorghum              25,450   25,450  25,450  25,740  26,280  27,960  30,390  32,940  34,890  35,970  36,330  36,420  36,420  36,420  36,420  36,420
Wheat                 3,700    3.700   3,700   3,780   3,910   4,100   4,440   4,900   5,340   5,640   5,780   5,83o   5,830   5,830   5,830   5,830
Maize                 13,510   13,510  13,660  14,300  15,200  15,750  16,240  17,020  17,830  18,560  19,000  19,140  19,200  19,200  19,200  19,200
Total Incrementol Outp-t
Sorghum                      -        -       -             100      280     840   1,650   2,500   3,150   3,510   3,630   3,660   3,660   3,660   3,660
Wheat                       -         -      10      60      170     330     610   1,000   1,360   1,610   1,730   1,770   1,780   1,780   1,780   1,780
Ibize                        _        _      50     270      580     770     940   1,210   1,490   1,740   1,890   1,940   1,960   1,960   1,960   1,960
Vegetables                   -        -      60     380   1,190   2,360   3,890   5,690   7,440   8,790   9,360   9,800   9,850   9,850   9,850   9,850
Potat.                                               so  - 5  380    860   1,190   1,510   1,790   2,060   2,080   2,140   2,140   2,140   2,140   2,140
Alfalfa                     -         -       -      10       90     370     920   1,710   2,540   3,340   4,010   4,460   4,690   4,690   4,690   4,690
Fruit
Citrus                    -         -       -       -       -        -       -       a       57     192     435      740   1,055   1,550   1,700   1,780
Grapes                                               -       -          2   17      57      120     195     264      300     300      300     300     300
Cof fee                     -         -       -       -       -        -       I       6       19      41      74      101     125     141      147     153
By-products
Sorghum                                     -      290    830   2,510   4,940   7,490   9,440  10,520  10,880  10,970  10,970  10,970  10,970  10,970
llheat                    -         -       -      80     210      400     740   1,200   1,640   1,940   2,080   2,130   2,130   2,130   2,130   2,130
M1aize                     -        -     150     790   1,690   2,240   2,730   3,510   4,320   5,050   5,490   5,630   5,690   5,690   5,690   5,690



-46-
ANNEX 1
Table 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices of Key Commodities Used for Project Analysis
Item                            Financial Prices                Economic Prices
…---------------…YRls/ton-------------------
Output
Sorghum (yellow)                     2,400                          1,440
Wheat                                2,800                          1,750
Maize                                2,400                          1,460
Vegetables                           2,000                          2,000
Potatoes                             1,500                          1,500
Coffee                              38,000                        23,000
Citrus                               4,000                         3,000
Grapes                               8,000                         8,000
Alfalfa                                600                            600
By-Products:
Sorghum                                400                           400
Wheat                                  500                            500
Maize                                  500                            500
Purchased Inputs
Fertilizers%
Urea                              1,600                         1,600
Triple superphosphate             1,200                         1,200
Chemicals;
Dimethoate                       4,500                          4,500
Zineb                            3,000                          3,000



-47-                        ANNEX  1
Table 11
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Cropping Pattern On Total Holding Represented bv Farm Models
Models/Crops
Area
Rainfed        Irrigated         Total
_________--------ha --------------
Model I
Sorghum                 1.7                -             1.7
Wheat                   0.5                -             0.5
Maize                   0.2                -             0.2
Pulses                  0.2                -             0.2
Fallow                  0.4                -             0.4
Total                3.0               -              3.0
Model 2
Sorghum                 1.0                -             1.0
Wheat                   0.3                -             0.3
Maize                   0.1               0.3            0.4
Pulses                  0.1                -             0.1
Vegetables                -               0.2            0.2
Total                1.5              0.5             2.0
Model 3
Sorghum                 2.0                -             2.0
Wheat                   0.6               0.3            0.9
Maize                     -               0.3            0.3
Pulses                  0.2                -             0.2
Vegetables                -               0.3            0.3
Alfalfa                   -               0.3            0.3
Fallow                  1.0                 -            1.0
Total                3.8               1.2            5.0
Model 4
Sorghum                   -               0.8            0.8
Maize                     -               0.3            0.3
Vegetables                -                 -              -
Coffee                    -               0.1            0.1
Double Crop
Sorghum                -              0.2             0.2
Vegetables             -              0.15            0.15
Total                  -              1.55            1.55
Model 5
Sorghum                  2.0               -             2.0
Wheat                    0.6               -             0.6
Maize                     -               1.2            1.2
Pulses                   0.2               -             0.2
Vegetables                -               0.3            0.3
Potato                    -               0.3            0.3
Alfalfa                   -               0.6            0.6
Fruit                     -                -              -
Fallow                   0.8               -             0.8
Double Crop
Wheat                  -              0.2             0.2
Total                 3.6             2.6             6.2
Model 6
Sorghum                  1.0               -             1.0
Wheat                    0.3               -             0.3
Maize                    0.1              0.3            0.4
Pulses                   0.1               -             0.1
Vegetables                -               0.2            0.2
Fruit                     -                -               -
Coffee                    -                -               -
Double Crop
Wheat                  -                -
Total                 1.5             0.5             2.0



-48-
ANNEX 1
Table 12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Future Cropping Pattern On Area To Be Developed Under Project
Area
Models/Crops             Rainfed         Irrigated         Total
-_---            ha------------------
Model 1
Sorghum                 1.7                -             1.7
Wheat                   0.5                -             0.5
Maize                   0.2                -             0.2
Total                2.4               -              2.4
Model 2
Sorghum                 1.0                -             1.0
Wheat                   0.3                -             0.3
Maize                   0.1               0.3            0.4
Vegetables               -                0.2            0.2
Total                1.4              0.5             1.9
Model 3
Sorghum                   -
Wheat                     -               0.3            0.3
Maize                     -               0.3            0.3
Pulses
Vegetables                -               0.3            0.3
Alfalfa                   -               0.3            0.3
Total                  -              1.2             1.2
Model 4
Vegetables                -               0.1             0.1
Fruit                     -               0.1             0.1
Coffee                    -               0.2             0.2
Double Crop
Vegetables             -              0.1             0.1
Total                  -              0.5             0.5
Model 5
Maize                     -               1.8            1.8
Vegetables                -               0.5            0.5
Potato                    -               0.5            0.5
Alfalfa                   -               0.6            0.6
Fruit                     -               0.2            0.2
Double Crop
Wheat                  -              0.4             0.4
Total                  -              4.0             4.0
Model 6
Sorghum                  0.7               -             0.7
Wheat                     -                -               -
Maize                    0.1              0.5            0.6
Pulses                   0.1               -             0.1
Vegetables                -               0.3            0.3
Fruit                     -               0.1            0.1
Coffee                    -               0.2            0.2
Double Crop
Wheat                  -               0.2            0.2
Total                 0.9             1.3             2.2



-49-
ANNEX 1
Table 13
YEKEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRI<,UAJTIRAL DEVELOPMELJT PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 1
Without                   With Project (Year)
Project           1            2           3           4
Value of Production             ------------(YRls)------
Sorghum   Grain           3,670           4,490       4,900       5,300       5,300
Stover         1,630           2,000       2,160       2,310        2,310
Other            420             420         260          260         260
Wheat      Grain          1,260           1,260       1,680       1,820        1,960
Straw             280            280         360         400          430
Maize      Grain             580            580          720         790         860
Stover           360             360         420         460          500
Other             50              50          40           30          30
Pulses    Grain             500             500         500         500          500
Stalks             70             70          70           70          70
TOTAL                   8,820          10,010      11,110      11,940      12,220
Cost of Production
Seeds                       340             340         360         360          360
Manure                        10             10          10           10          10
Fertilizer                    80            300         490         570          570
Chemicals                     -              -          180         260          260
Tractor Hire              1,090           1,090       1,090       1,090        1,090
Animal Hire               3,800           4,090       4,390       4,400       4,560
Sundry                       290            330         360         380          380
Zakat (tax)                 600             680         780         840         860
Hired Labor                  760            840         960       1,020       1,040
TOTAL                   6,970           7,680       8,620       8,930       9,130
Net Benefit
Per Household             1,850           2,330       2,490       3,010       3,090
Per Family Workday            16             19          20           23          24



-50-
ANNEX 1
Table 14
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 2
Without                  With Project (Year)
Project           1          2           3          4
Value of Production         ---------------------------(YRs)…-------------------
Sorghum     Grain        2,160          2,640       2,880      3,120       3,120
Stover         960         1,160       1,280       1,360      1,360
Other          250            250        150         150        150
Wheat       Grain          760            760       1,010       1,090      1,180
Straw          160           160         220         240        250
Maize       Grain        2,020          2,450       2,740       2,920      2,950
Stover      1,260          1,480       1,560       1,680      1,690
Other          100             90         70          60         60
Pulses      Grain          250            250         250         250        250
Stalks         40             40          40          40         40
Vegetables               6,000          6,000       8,000      9,000      10,000
TOTAL                 13,960         15,280      18,200     19,910      21,050
Cost of Production
Seeds                      400            400         410         410        410
Manure                      70             70          70          70         70
Fertilizer                 120            360         600         700        700
Chemicals                   90            130         370        410         410
Tractor Hire               840            840         840        840         840
Animal Hire              3,670          3,980       4,350      4,440       4,450
Packages                   370            370         490        550         620
Water                    1,260          1,240       1,190       1,160      1,160
Zakat (tax)                740            800         970       1,060      1,130
Hired Labor                880            960       1,020      1,080       1,110
Sundry                     420            460         520        540         550
TOTAL                  8,860          9,610      10,830     11,260      11,450
Net Benefit
Per Household            5,100          5,670       7,370      8,650       9,600
Per Family Workday          37             40          49          57         62



-51-
ANNEX 1
Table 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 3
Without                   With Project (Year)
Project         1         2         3         4         5
Value of Production               -------------------(YRls)------------
Sorghum        Grain    2,400          2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400
Stover      800          800       800       800       800       800
Other       150          150       150       150       150       150
Barley         Grain    1,060         1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060
Straw       290          290       290       290       290       290
Pulses         Grain       430           430       430       430       430       430
Stover       60           60        60        60        60        60
Wheat          Grain    1,510          1,930    2,100    2,270    2,270    2,270
Straw       330          420       450       480       480       480
Maize          Grain    1,730          2,160    2,380    2,520    2,520    2,520
Stover   1,080         1,300    1,350    1,440    1,440    1,440
Other        80           70        50        50        50        50
Vegetables               4,500         4,500    6,000    6,760    7,500    7,500
Potatoes                 2,930        2,930    4,050    4,500    4,950    4,950
Alfalfa                  4,500        4,500    4,725    5,400    6,075    6,750
TOTAL                 21,850       23,000   26,295   28,610   30,475   31,150
Cost of Production
Seeds                    1,450         1,460    1,470    1,480    1,480    1,480
Manure                      100          100       100       100       100       100
Fertilizer                  140          360       600       660       720       740
Chemicals                    70           70       150       210       210       210
Tractor Hire               840           840       840       840       840       840
Animal Hire              5,360         5,660    5,850    6,050    6,050    6,050
Water                    4,000         3,910    3,790    3,710    3,660    3,500
Zakat (tax)                920           970    1,120    1,190    1,250    1,250
Hired Labor              1,400         1,480    1,530    1,530    1,530    1,530
Sundry                     710           740       770       790       790       790
TOTAL                 14,990       15,590   16,220   16,560   16,630   16,490
Net Benefit
Per Household            6,860         7,410   10,075   12,050   13,845   14,660
Per Family Workday          33            34        45        53        61        64



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 4
Without                                     With Project (Year)
Project        1         2        3         4         5         6         7         8         9
Value of Production         ---          --------------------------------(YRls)-----------------
Sorghum        Grain      5,760       5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760
Stover    2,880        2,880    2,880    2,880    2,880    2,880    2,880    2,880    2,880    2,880
Other        250         250       250      250       250       250       250       250       250       250
Maize          Grain      1,730         860        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Stover    1,080          540       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Other         80          40        -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Vegetables                4,500       6,000    8,000    9,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Beans (intercrop)            -          800    1,840    1,280         800        -         -        -         -         -
Fruit (citrus)               -           -         -         -         -       400    2,000    4,000    6,400    7,200
Coffee                                                                                                                          u-
Existing plantations   2,280         2,280    2,280    2,280    3,800    4,560    4,560    4,560    4,560    4,560
New plantations             -           -         -         -        -      2,280    3,040    4,180    5,320    5,320
Banana (shade crop)         _         _                               100      200       400       400       400       400
TOTAL                  18,560      19,410   21,010   21,450   23,590   26,330   28,890   32,030   35,570   36,370
Cost of Production
Seeds and Seedlings         220         230       280       280      260       240       240       240       240       240
Manure                       60          50        40        40        60        80       80        80        80        80
Fertilizer                  100         160       200       230       320      440       460       460       460       460
Chemicals                    60          70        90       120       150      150       150       150       150       150
Tractor Hire                610         550       500       500       500      500       500       500       500       500
Knapsack Use                             10        20        20        20        30       30        30        30        30
Animal Hire               5,070       4,920    4,780    4,780    5,030    5,270    5,350    5,400    5,400    5,400
Water                     1,300       1,300       780       680    1,030    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250
Packages                    190         260       340       380      420       450       480       520       530       530
Zakat (tax)                 710         780       890       920    1,020    1,160    1,290    1,440    1,620    1,660
Hired Labor                 870         790       830      830       860       900       910       910       910       910
Sundry                      460         460       440      460       480       520       540       550       560       560
TOTAL                   9,650       9,580    9,190    9,240   10,150   10,990   11,280   11,530   11,730   11,770
Net Benefit
Per Household             8,910       9,830   11,820   12,210   13,440   15,340   17,610   20,500   23,840   24,600
Per Family Workday           64          61        62        62        73       84        97       113       131       135



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 5 I/
Without                               With Project (Year)
Project      1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8
Value of Production                 -------------------- =  --------(YRls ---------
Sorghum       Grain       2,400      1,680    1,680    1,680    1,680    1,680    1,680    1,680    1,680
Stover       800        560       560      560       560       560      560       560       560
Other        150        100       100      100       100       100      100       100       100
Barley        Grain       1,060      1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060    1,060
Straw        290        290       290      290       290      290       290       290       290
Pulses        Grain         430        430      430       430       430      430       430       430      430
Straw         60         60        60       60        60        60       60        60        60
Maize          Grain      6,910    14,400   14,260   15,120   15,120   15,120   15,120   15,120   15,120
Stover     4,320      8,800    9,100    9,600    8,640    8,640    8,640    8,640    8,640
Other        300        500       270      270       270       270      270       270       270
Alfalfa                   9,000      9,000    9,450   10,800   12,150   13,500   13,500   13,500   13,500
Potato                    5,850      5,850   13,800   15,150   16,500   16,500   16,500   16,500   16,500           1
Wheat          Grain      1,010      3,220    2,100    3,020    3,020    3,020    3,020    3,020    3,020           w
Straw        220        680       440      640       640       640      640       640       60('     I
Vegetables                9,000    12,000   20,000   22,500   25,000   25,000   25,000   25,000   25,0uL
Fruit (grapes)               -          -         -        -      1,600    4,800    9,600   14,400   19,200
TOTAL                  41,800    58,630   73,600   81,280   87,120   91,670   96,470  101,270  106,070
Cost of Production
Seeds and Seedlings       2,120      2,435    3,285    3,475    3,480    3,480    3,480    3,480    3,46-
Manure                      260        360       400      400       400       400      400       400       400
Fertilizer                  270      1,420    1,670    2,080    2,450    2,650    2,650    2,650    2,650
Chemicals                   150        260       760      780       780      970       970       970       970
Tractor Hire              2,080      2,210    2,290    2,330    2,330    2,330    2,330    2,330    2,330           1 
Animal Hire              12,530    13,180   13,790   14,130   14,130   14,730   14,730   14,730   14,730            a 
Protection net               -          -         -        -         -         -        -      1,370    1,370       m x
Packaging                   440        560      990    1,080    1,280    1,345    1,445    1,545    1,645           M
Water                     8,540    22,790   19,180   19,350   16,260   17,860   17,860   17,860   17,860
Zakat (tax)               1,530      2,160    2,900    3,180    3,260    3,420    3,660    3,900    4,140
Hired Labor               2,260      3,170    3,720    3,770    3,780    3,800    3,810    3,820    3,820
Sundry                    1,510      2,430    2,450    2,530    2,410    2,550    2,570    2,650    2,670
TOTAL                  31,690    50,975   51,435   53,105   50,560   53,535   53,905   55,705   56,065
Net Benefit
Per Farm Model           10,110      7,655   22,165   28,175   36,560   38,135   42,565   45,565   50,005
Per Family Workday           31         17        50       62        75        78       88        91       100
1/ Irrigation networks to serve more than one family.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 6
Without                                    With Project (Year)
Project       1         2         3        4         5         6        7         8         9
Value of Production        ---…………------------------            ----------…(YRls)----------------------------------------
Sorghum       Grain      2,160       1,840    2,020    2,180    2,180    2,180    2,180    2,180    2,180    2,180
Stover      960         580       700       770      820       820      820       820       820       820
Other       250         150        90        90       90        90        90       90        90        90
Wheat          Grain       760       1,010    1,290    1,400    1,510    1,510    1,510    1,510    1,510    1,510
Straw       160         220       280      300       320       320      320       320       320       320
Maize          Grain     2,020       3,310    4,320    4,600    4,630    4,630    4,630    4,630    4,630    4,630
Stover    1,260       2,100    2,500    2,640    2,650    2,650    2,650    2,650    2,650    2,650
Other        100         90        70        50       50        50        50       50        50        50
Pulses        Grain        250         250       250      250       250       250      250       250       250       250
Straw        40          40        40       40        40        40       40        40        40        40
Vegetables               6,000       9,000   12,000   13,500   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000
Coffee                      -           -         -        -         -         -     1,180    3,040    4,180    5,320
Banana (shade)              -           -         -        -        100       200      400       400       400       400
Beans (inter-crop)          -        1,600    2,480    1,800        800        -        -         -         -         -
Fruit (citrus)                          -         -        -         -        400    2,000    4,000    6,400    7L200
TOTAL                 13,960      20,190   26,040   27,620   28,440   28,140   31,120   34,980   38,520   40,460
Cost of Production
Seeds and Seedlings        400         490       530      530       490      470       470       470       470      470
Manure                       70        100       110       110      150       170       170      170       170       170
Fertilizer                 120         700       880      880       970    1,090    1,110    1,110    1,110    1,110
Chemicals                   60          70        90      120       150       150      150       150       150       150
Tractor Hire               840         760       800      800       800       800      800       800       800       800
Animal Hire              3,670       4,545    4,730    5,330    5,620    5,780    5,800    5,820    5,820    5,820
Knapsack Use                -           -         30       40        50        70       70        70        70        70      a x
Packaging                  370         550       740      830       930       960      990    1,000    1,000    1,000
Shade Replacement           -           -         -        -         -      1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000         x
Water                    1,060       1,770    1,590    1,500    2,580    2,900    2,900    2,900    2,900    2,900
Zakat (tax)                740       1,150    1,250    1,320    1,360    1,450    1,550    1,790    1,860    1,860
Hired Labor                860       1,140    1,240    1,320    1,350    1,380    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,400
Sundry                     410         575       610      650       730       820      830       850       850       850
TO TAL                 8,600      11,850   12,600   13,430   15,180   17,040   17,240   17,530   17,600   17,600
Net Benefit
Per Household            5,360       8,340   13,440   14,190   13,260   11,100   13,880   17,450   20,920   22,860
Per Family Workday          39          53        76       80        70        58        78       90       108       118



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field Crop Inputs, Farm Traction, and Labor Requirements Per Hectare at Present
Rainfed Areas                                         Irrigated Areas
Alfalfa Alfalfa
ltems                Units   Sorghum   Wheat   Maize        Sorghum   Wheat   Maize   Potatoes  Vegetables  1st yr.  2&3 yr.
Seeds                kg         25     130       30           25     140       30       1,750           0.5        30         -
Fertilizer
-N                   kg         10      15       15           15      20       20          60          60           -         -
-P205                kg          -       -        -            -       -        -          30          30           -         -
K20                 kg          -       -        -            -       -        -           -           -           -         _
-Manure              kg          -       -      200            -       -      500       1,000       1,000         600         -
Chemicals
-Seed Treatment      kg ai       -                -            -                -           -           -                     -
-Fungicide           kg ai            -        -         -             -        -           1.2         0.6         -         -
-Insecticide         kg ai       -       -        _-                                        -           1.8         -         -
-Weedicide           kg ai       -       -        -            1.0      1.0     1.0         -           -           -         -
Cultivation
-Tractor             hours       7        7       7            7        7       7           7           7           7         -
-Animal Hire         days       10       9       12           15       11      15          22          27          16         8
-Knapsack Use        days        -       -        -            -        -       -           1           1           -         -
Labor
-Hired               mandays    5        4        7            8        6       9          14          23          11         7
-Family              mandays   30       22       29           45       35      44          83         159          66       135
Water
-(at source)         m3          -       -        -       13,540  12,620  12,820       11,600      14,000      20,800   31,140
Packing/Bags         Pcs.        -       -        -            -        -       -          41         250           -         -



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field Crop Inputs, Farm Traction, and Labor Requirements per Hectare with Project
Rainfed Areas                                           Irrigated Areas
Alfalfa Alfalfa
Items                Units   Sorghum   Wheat   Maize         Sorghum   Wheat   Maize   Potatoes  Vegetables  1st yr.  2&3 yr.
Seeds                 kg         25     130       30            25     140       30       2,000            0.5        20
Fertilizer
-N                    kg         50      70       60           80      120      120         120         120            -         -
-P205                kg          20      40       20           40       80       80         120         120          120       120
-K20                  kg          -       -        -             -       -        -          60          60            -         -
-Manure              kg           -       -      200            -        -      500       1,000       1,000          600         -
Chemicals
-Seed Dressing /1   kg ai         0.04    0.2      0.05         0.04    0.2       0.05        -           -
-Fungicide /2        kg ai         -        -       -            -       -        -           1.8         0.9          -         -
-Insecticide /3      kg ai        0.4     0.4      0.4          0.4      0.4      0.4         1.2          1.8         -         -
-Weedicide           kg ai        -       -        -             1.0     1.0      1.0         -           -            -         -
Cultivation
-Tractor             hour         7        7       7             7       7        7           7            7           7         -
-Animal Hire         day         12      10       14           19       15       20          26          29           19        11
-Knapsack Use        day          2       2        2            2        2        2           3           5            -         -
Labor
-Hired               mandays    7         6        8           11        8       11          19          26            7        17
-Family              mandays   34        33       38           52       42       55         102         182           72       165
Water                                                                                                                                   M
-(at source)         m3           -       -        -       12,500  11,600  11,800        10,700      12,800      19,100   28,700    o
Packages/Bags        No.Pcs.    --                                       -        -          78         420            -         -
/1  Seed dressing carboxine 0.15 kg ai per 100 kg of seed.
/2 Lime sulphur or maneb.
/3 Malathion or pyrethonol using 0.4 kg ai per ha.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Cost at Present
Seeds   Manure   Fertilizer   Chemicals   Tractor Hire   Animal Hire   Water /1  Zakat /1  Hired Labor   Sundry   Total /2
… -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -    -    -   (YRls/ha)    -    -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Rainfed Crops
Sorghum                  65        -         30            -          420          1,500           _        215          300         125    2,655
Wheat                   390        -         45            -          420          1,350           -        250          240         135    2,830
Maize                    70       40         45            -          420          1,800           -        290          280         145    3,090
Irrigated Crops
Sorghum                  65        -         45            -          420          2,250       2,700       290           480         310    6,560
Wheat                   420                  60            -          420          1,650       2,520        225          360         280    5,935
Maize                    70      100         60            -          420          2,250       2,560       290           540         315    6,605
Potatoes              4,025      200        270          20           420          3,320       2,320     1,300           840         640   13,355
Vegetables              900      200        270         430           420          4,050       2,800     1,500         1,380         600   12,550
Alfalfa Establishment   900      120        270            -          420          2,400       4,160          -          660         450    9,380
Alfalfa Annual            -        -          -            -            -          1,050       6,230          -          420         385    8,085
/1 These have been excluded while computing the economic rate of return.
/2 Excluding family labor.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Cost With Project
Seeds   Manure   Fertilizer   Chemicals   Tractor Hire   Animal Hire   Water /1  Zakat /I   Hired Labor   Sundry   Total /2
… - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -…-  - - - (YRIs/ha) - - - - -                                … - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Rainfed Crops
Sorghum                    65         -         210          105           420           1,825            -        310            420          170    3,525
Wheat                     415         -         330          120           420           1,525             -        390           360          180    3,740
Maize                      80        40         240          105           420           2,125             -       430            480          200    4,140
Irrigated Crops
Sorghum                    55         -         360          130           420           2,875        2,375        360            660          360    7,595
Wheat                     450                   600          145           420           2,275        2,205        380            480          350  . 7,305
Maize                      80       100         600          130           420           3,025        2,240        420            660          385    8,060            1
Potatoes               4,600        200         915          335           420           3,940        2,035      1,650          1,140          760   15,995            T
Vegetables                900       200        915           475           420           4,950        2,430      2,500          1,560          720   15,070
Alfalfa Establishment   600         120         360            -           420           2,850        3,630           -           420          420    8,820
Alfalfa Annual              -         -         360            -             -           1,650        5,455           -         1,020          425    8,910
/1 These have been excluded while computing the economic rate of return.
72 Excluding family labor.
43>



-59-
ANNEX 1
Table 23
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation & Maintenance Cost of Citrus with Project /1
Years of Development
Item                          Unit   Quantity   Unit Cost        1      2       3      4       5      6      7-30
-  - - - - - - - - - -YRls/ha - - - - - - - - -
Seeds (intercropped beans)  kg            20           10        200    200    200       -       -       -      -
Manure                        kg       1,000            0.2        -       -      -    200    200    200    200
Fertilizer                    kg         310      various          -      -       -    950    950    950    950
Chemicals                     kg         125            "          -      -       -    220    220    220    220
Irrigation water              m       20,000            0.2        -      -       -  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000
Spray equipment use           days         8           12          -      -       -    100    100    100    100
Packages                      no.        225            5          -      -      60    310    630  1,000  1,130
Zakat (tax)                   .                         5        600    480    600  1,000  2,000  3,200  3,600
Animal use                    days        17          150        600    600    750  2,250  2,400  2,550  2,550
Labor (hired)                 man days                           100    100    120    360    380    400    400
Sundry (cash costs)                                     5         80     70      90    470    540    640    660
TOTAL                                                     1,580  1,450  1,820  9,860 11,420 13,260 13,810
/1 Excluding family labor, whose requirements are estimated as follows:
Years of Development
Item          1    2    3    4    5    6   7-30
------------ mandays -------------
heavy work   8    8   10   81   86   90    90
light work  20   20   24   92  112  132   152
TOTAL        28   28   34  173  198  222   242
Costs during the first three years apply to the intercrop.



-60-                                            ANNEX 1
Table 24
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Cost of Vineyard with Project /2
Years of Development
Item                          Unit   Quantity   Unit Cost        1       2      3       4      5       6      7-30
…  - - -- - - - - - - -(YR1s/ha)…- - - - - - - - 
Fertilizer                kg         500                       -      -       -    980    980    980    980
Chemicals                 kg           6          120          -      -       -    720    720    720    720
Protection nets           x           33      20,800           -      -       -       -      -  6,860  6,860
Spray/dusting equipment days          45           12          -      -       -    540    540    540    540
Irrigation water          m3     12,000              0.2       -      -       -  2,400  2,400  2,400  2,400
Packages                  no.       400            15          -      -    170    500  1,000  1,500  2,000
Zakal (Tax)               x                         5          -            400  1,200  2,400  3,600  4,800
Animal Use                days        22          150          -      -    150  3,000  3,150  3,300  3,300
Labor (hired)             mandays      9           60          -      -      20    480    500    540    540
Sundry (cash costs)       -            -            -          -      -      40    490    580  1,020  1,100
TOTAL                                                                       780 10,310 12,270 21,460 23,240
/1  Excluding family labor, whose requirements are estimated as follows:
Years of Development
Item          1    2    3    4    5    6   7-30
--------TmandaysF~------
heavy work   -    -    1   83   87   91    91
light work   -    -   27   95  113  131   150
TOTAL         -    -   28  178  200  222   241



-61-
ANNEX 1
Table 25
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Cost of Coffee Trees with Project /1
Years of Development
Item                    Unit   Quantity   Unit Cost         1       2      3       4       5       6      7-30
- - -                 -(YRls/haT--
Seeds (intercrop)         kg           20           10        200    200    200         -      -       -       -
Manure                    kg       1,000          0.2 -        -       -      200    200    200    200
Fertilizers               kg          220       various        -       -       -     450    580    680    680
Chemicals                 kg           5.5       various       -       -       -     240    240    240    240
Irrigation Water          mi       9,000          0.2 -        -       -   1,800  1,800  1,800  1,800  1,800
Spray equipment use       days          8           12         -       -       -       60     80    100    100
Shade replacement         pa                                                               1,000  1,000  1,000
Packages                  no.                        5                                 10     20      30      30
Zakat (tax)               X             6            5        400    320    210  1,140  1,720  2,290  2,860
Animal use                days         14          150        600    600    750  1,950  2,000  2,050  2,100
Labor (hired)             man days    6             60        100    100    120    240    300    360    360
Sundry (Cash Costs)                                            70      60      60    300    400    440    470
TOTAL                                                       1,370  1,280  3,340  6,390  8,340  9,190  9,840
Excluding family labor, whose requirements are estimated as followsz
Years of Development
Item          1    2    3    4    5    6   7-30
-------:[mandaysF :~-          -~~~
heavy work   8    8    9   54   56   59    60
light work  18   18   24   90  107  127   140
TOTAL        26   26   33  144  163  186   200
Costs during the first three years apply to the intercrop.



-62-                                 ANNEX  I
Table Z
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost and Quantifiable Benefit Streams
Incremental Cost                 Incremental
Investment Cost       Operating Cost /2   Benefit
Water                         Ag.
Year   Ag.Dev./l       Supply                       .Dev.
---------------------- (YRls million) ----------------------
1984     1.5          5.6
1985     7.7          2.5                        0.2             0.3
1986    11.9          5.0                        1.2              2.0
1987    12.8          5.0                        3.7              5.8
1988     8.3          6.1                        5.5             11.5
1989     -            -                         12.7             18.8
1990     -            -                         16.4            27.9
1991     -            -                         19.8            37.0
1992     -            -                         21.2            44.6
1993     -            -                         21.5            49.4
1994     -            -                         21.9            52.9
1995     -            -                         21.9            55.2
1996     -            -                         22.1            56.5
1997     -            -                         21.8            56.5
1998     -            -                         21.4            56.5
1999     -            -                         21.4            56.5
2000     -            -                         22.1            56.5
2001     -            -                         22.1            56.5
2002     -            -                         21.8            56.5
2003     -            -                         21.5            56.5
2004     -            -                         21.4            56.5
2005     -            -                         22.0            56.5
2006     -            -                         22.2            56.5
2007     -            -                         21.8            56.5
2008     -            -                         21.4            56.5
2009     -            -                         21.5            56.5
2010     -            -                         22.0            56.5
2011     -            -                         22.1            56.5
2012     -            -                         21.8            56.5
2013     -            -                         21.4            56.5
/1  Includes Project Administration and extension development.
/2 Includes incremental annual cost of production, and replacement cost and
recurrent cost of project administration and extension.



-63-
ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
A-1  FAO/CP.  Central Highlands Rural Development Project Preparation Report
(including TOR for Studies of Phase II), February 15, 1983.
A-2  Ministry of Overseas Development  (UK).  Agricultural Development on the
Montane Plains (vols 1-2), 1978.
A-3  YAR/MAF.   Summary of the Final Results  of the Agricultural Census  in
Eleven Provinces, April 1983.
B. Working Documents
B.   Selected Working Documents.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organigrom of Implementing Agencies
Mlnister of
Agriculture
Accounts, Finance,
Personnel Managemnent,
Studies, Training
. ~~~~~~Manager                                      Planning, Statistics              & Evalucitbn
Engineering
Serices
rDeputy Project
Manager eor                                           Manager for
Dhamor Govemorate                                      Sanaa Govemnorarte
Block Centers                                           Block Centers
Extension Centers                                     Extension Centers
Beneflciaries
Wodd Bank - 25171



IBRD 17321
'4 TvAl,<4i0  oix                                                                                                       YEMENv                                       AUGUST 1983
.1,N,) s RAr B  REPusSLICrlR^I OF @; nYEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
'l<    3E*3F~ ~  ~ut5;>/;> 5<                            S A U D I    A R A B I A
zoo so,          %        >                                      *CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL
Dhohoon                                    ~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
o                      -\ °s  _ 't  8                |PROJECT DISTRICTS
s   0        RPOV.A.                                *      '          ,.fProject area
Project district boundaries
(300303.             'I                                                     -..--~~~~~~~-Paved Roads
-1e W  iH  r T h er  IA  ' - ; -   ¢   .C    .              ° P a0 e d   R o a d s   un d e r   C o r s tr u c tio n
(__ __  1  S   Al  A         D   A     H                                    Other Roads
2( \  i~    o®doh                             .'                        (     No tioio Ql    Capitols
~~~ \   >       \                         .                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   Main Ports
.4 International Airports
\                                                04  \  o88t            -- --DProvincial Boundaries
I X  !  -   >  _          -       >                                    --     International Boundaries
H        A    J   J  A,                                                         0      20      40     60      O E00
)   H   A  J  J  A   Khooer    .                                                  ~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~K LOMET ERS  1
U J   q     Atho20     40          60
A,l,.b                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
'S          --ia,o   0,  AOOO  |, So AprN /A
- t voi >   _10 _A.                                                            MARIB
MAHW EI T                 Hod                                                                   /
m  x,      HgDEID+.nkwqMonOt,h  %        w  
t           Moosvrsy*h;    50030     \,   ModœnuF J                     
TotIo                             - 1           3       3 B       UsIr,h H
Al Kwhi                             309 Al            ho. |  o ho'
<    5                     #          t    3 /    >lqkh       ;   R.Alb.,hI R)
5   W)~~~~~~~~~ 
(  f                   X  OuboA                             
E~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    K. 1  PId./ \
0'~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~8 
/                                   j                           GULF  OF  ADEF
/            DJIBOUTI                                                                                                0                   . 03
500.103 rO 00 l3* ,  .b4ora. ;u,e o O eor 035'Oon,i00o
/             (/                     w                                                                           r;            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00300in33030 0000O0005  353 0030






ISRO 17322
/   .  '                                                                          A                    AUGUST 1983
IRAQ                        1
RA           151001ISLMI0 REP. 0F
R9>  N R A N noA                                                                          YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ISAUDI ARABIA  ARA  '                            CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FGft-l.  -t'\OMAN,                           AVERAGE ANNUAL PRECIPITATION AND ELEVATIONS
[,t.  >                 XERICEIA                                                                             - 2002 -  IS  HEYETS  N  MILLIMETERS
ETHIOPIA                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPX-
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOWNS
PRIMARY ROADS
IA                     ~~~~~~~ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
OT-ER ROADS
ELEVATO0NS IS METERS
1000
-     D00RI11050
M.-                                                                                                                -  INTERNATItNAL BOUNDARIES
RED, SEcA
14'                                                                                            _4--
i _   __ N                                                          A4
R~~.        3~00 
ETHIOPIA                                                -            0
DJIBOUTI                           -G fOFA N






IBRD 17323R
To Raydah                                                                                                                  MARCH 1984
,,  '.t/iAi/.lt\t-   4                 iM  A  k i b
ffi t AN MAHWE                                          1-4R\T, -1 H/AL   BAN!                      /                   YEMEN  ARAB  RE PUBLIC
CENTRAL HIGHLANDS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
A I'IZ U                                      ~~~PROJECT
A,I/L,VIU/. /avo L    t    i,N ) J::                                                                                            PROJECT  AREA
i                                                iSt'l /I/ 4  /tvr                         / -I /'l >  ,    -  '  ,   \7'  1 ! '; a @'' )S )g J  H A N A H  0   10   20 30 40
KILOMETERS
&                                            ..  s,6E.'1isz|--,r~ X sY St tA/. ........ X J X PROJECT AREA
F' BLOCK CENTERS (BC's)
Al? |I/S /.>.iliD /I  I  ti  ,,  Zj   8   wz   \  ,  *      IVILLAGE EXTENSION CENTERS (VEC's)
,   i    :NATIONAL CAPITAL
0X,,~ WRA N                                          \                                           $.2Z  l/.'attV 9 [ t :   1PRIMARY ROADS
SELECTED SECONDARY ROADS
A  I    H  A   D  A                                   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
8 l/4:;¢      :I  _ . tPROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
47'A1y/                Q9/    .5i .Ritit'.1.  7:,    , t t   },   S             : 2 u:    X       2 ni                  pZ                   WADIS
TA  A/ J/i>/!/'/           iN                                     44  }-   NrV |/ABAtR7       0
A    -1,1 6~~~~~~~~ 11V                                                                                      0
ARAW             D~~~~~ATASS
dR-                                                                                                                          A   A F .  t  111 Fr.  n
i4Tft4Rt/'Zn -   o\(. th r AfS - 20-   SOMALIA - *!
l4/-'\''                             sO  .                        i                                         O.ii\.tfaJ-   nyOIrIOylnalueo h ol 3   ,Y N  Ag
e  \                   | i/> '5 l \ zv-i te  j 5'11. 1rs5I111 I S  C  /10 l a used N. th,,
/ ilZ ]                                                  *                                                    * . 1/)  t, i | ti} Bi 4 SbbfboIIhdrIf  / v={.SS  wM  W  o.vX.  -10  g  (:  .  0  ;0'
To,  ,aiz 4 S  . fl' /-l                                                                 5 /  0 .  \  ^  F   ~   tr  ° an  o Y   an   {v  E T H 10 P A   ' \  -,, -d; --f   :,, tj



