Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
Report No. 19400
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BAPEDAL DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 3454-IND)
June 30, 1999
Environment and Social Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and maybe used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CUPRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
1992     $1 = Rp 2,000
1993     $1=Rp 2,070
1994     $1=Rp 2,120
1995     $1 = Rp 2,200
1996     $1 =Rp 2,350
1997     $1=Rp 2,400
1998 (Jan) $1 = Rp 8,000
1998 (Jun) $1 = Rp 13,000
1999 (Jan) $1 = Rp 8,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  -     Asian Development Bank
AMDAL                -      Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure
AusAID               -     Australian Agency for International Development
BAPEDAL              -      Environmental Impact Management Agency (Central)
BAPEDAL Wilayah   -        Regional office of BAPEDAL
BAPEDALDA            -     Environmental Impact Management Agency (Province or District)
CIDA                -      Canadian International Development Agency
GOI                 -       Government of Indonesia
ICR                  -     Implementation Completion Report
IMF                 -      International Monetary Fund
GTZ                 -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
JABOTABEK            -      Jakarta-Bogor-Tangerang-Bekasi Metropolitan Area
JICA                -      Japan International Cooperation Agency
MHA                  -     Ministry of Home Affairs
MLH                  -     Ministry of State for the Environment
MOP                  -      Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
OECF                 -     The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
PEMDA                -     Provincial or district government
Vice President      Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager      Kristalina Georgieva, EASES
Country Director    Mark Baird, EACIF
Task Manager        Thomas E. Walton, EACIF



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................................                                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................                                            ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................... 1
A. Project Objectives and Description ............................................................1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................................................2
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................3
D. Project Sustainability ...........................................................                          5
E.  Bank Performance ...........................................................                               6
F.  Borrower Performance ...........................................................                           7
G. Assessment of Outcome ...........................................................                           8
H. Future Operation ...........................................................                                9
I.   Key Lessons Learned ...........................................................                          10
PART II: STATISTICAL  TABLES ...........................................................                                11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .11
Table 3: Project Timetable .12
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .12
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .12
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operations .13
Table 7: Results of Training .13
Table 8A:  Project Costs .....................................................                                14
Table 8B:  Project Financing .....................................................                            15
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits (not applicable) ................................... 15
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                   15
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............                       .................. 16
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................  16
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                    16
ANNEX  A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE ICR  .............                                        ....................  17
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION  AIDE MEMOIRE  ......................................................                              18
ANNEX C: EVOLUTION OF BAPEDAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE ........... 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BAPEDAL DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3454-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the BAPEDAL Development Technical
Assistance Project (BDTAP) in the Republic of Indonesia, for which a loan in the amount of US$12.0
million equivalent was approved on March 4, 1992 and made effective on December 29, 1992.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1997. Final disbursement took place on April 30, 1999. There was no undisbursed balance.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Sean Foley, consultant and former Task Team Leader, and Mr.
Thomas Walton, present Task Team Leader (EACIF. It was reviewed by Messrs. Richard Calkins
(EAPCO) and Benjamin Fisher (EACIF), who were the project's first and second Task Team Leaders,
respectively, Mr. Heinrich Unger (EASES) and Ms. Kristalina Georgieva, Manager, EASES.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
September/October 1997, and a first draft was given to BAPEDAL for comments in December 1997.
When the loan was reopened and extended to assist BAPEDAL in managing forest fire emergencies in
November 1997, work on the ICR was suspended. The draft was revised in February and March 1999 to
reflect developments during the period of the loan extensions, and the Task Team Leader discussed it
with BAPEDAL staff in a brief ICR meeting in May 1999.
The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by making staff presentations on the outcome
of each contract during the final supervision mission, providing comments on the December 1997 Aide
Memoire, reviewing the work accomplished during the loan extension period for the ICR mission, and
reviewing and commenting on the draft ICR. BAPEDAL staff were preparing a paper to be incorporated
in the ICR as the Borrower's Contribution, but illness of the primary author delayed its completion
indefinitely.



iii
INDONESIA
BAPEDAL DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3454-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    In June 1990, the national Environmental Impact Management Agency  (BAPEDAL) was
formally established by Presidential Decree. It became operational in January 1991. The Bank obtained
funding from the Japan Grant Facility to assist with start-up of the new agency. The funds used in
assisting BAPEDAL staff to formulate the Five-Year BAPEDAL Development Program and to prepare
this project.
Project Objectives
2.     The project's overall development objective was to assist GOI in (a) strengthening the
institutional capacity and role of BAPEDAL and other agencies of the borrower responsible for
environmental management and pollution control; and (b) designing and implementing adequate pollution
control measures at the central and regional levels. The overall objective was subdivided into five
"subproject" objectives:
*  clarify and strengthen the mandate of BAPEDAL and relevant agencies;
*  establish and strengthen systems and skills for pollution control;
*  establish and strengthen regional environmental agencies and laboratories;
*  design, development and implement a recruitment and training program; and
* support BAPEDAL in mobilization and.administration of external finance.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project substantially achieved nearly all of its subproject objectives and exceeded some of
them. In terms of its overall objective, BDTAP strengthened BAPEDAL's capacity in a variety of areas.
It also succeeded in helping BAPEDAL to design adequate pollution control measures at central and
regional levels, but BAPEDAL has not yet progressed very far towards their effective implementation.
4.    The total project costs were estimated as US$ 15 million, US$ 12 million of which was provided
by a loan from the Bank. The actual project costs were US$ 14.38 million. There were no changes in the
financial arrangements during implementation. The project was appraised in January 1992. Board
approval came in March of the same year, and the project became effective in December 1992. Three
separate extensions of the loan closing date were granted. The loan closed on December 31, 1998.
5.    The main factors not subject to Government control were all associated with the newness of
BAPEDAL: confusion about mandate and role, an initial shortage of trained and experienced staff, and
the unpredictability of the pace of change i1i a new institution. Factors within the Government's control
were BAPEDAL's lack of clear authority and status within the Government, a legal system that was
dysfunctional in prosecuting pollution cases, and repeated postponements of decisions on the nature of
the organizational structure for environmental management at regional, provincial and district levels.
Among the factors BAPEDAL itself could have controlled, the single most detrimental one was the
consistently poor lateral communication and collaboration within the agency. Much more could have



iv
been achieved under BDTAP if all senior managers had seen its potential to benefit the agency as a whole
and had participated in it accordingly.
6.    The Bank accurately identified BAPEDAL's institutional strengthening needs. All required
preparation procedures were completed rapidly; the project moved from the conceptual stage (IEPS) to
appraisal within four months, in part because the concept of BAPEDAL itself had been under discussion
by GOI and the Bank for more than two years. Identification is rated satisfactory, with the retrospective
observation that the Bank was unduly optimistic in the expectation that BAPEDAL would implement
pollution control measures in the course of the project. Preparation performance is rated highly
satisfactory. Appraisal is rated as satisfactory; the one area that can with hindsight be questioned is the
Bank's implicit optimism about an inexperienced agency's capacity to accommodate the mobilization of
five separate teams of consultants. The annual supervision missions were thorough and identified and
followed up on issues of implementation, operation and sustainability. Because BDTAP was task
managed in the field office, the Task Team Leader was available to BAPEDAL in person at any time, and
this addressed the need for close and extended supervision identified in the FEPS. Supervision is rated as
highly satisfactory.
7.    The borrower's performance in implementation is rated as satisfactory. For the most part,
BAPEDAL had a clear view of its needs, and the project reflects that view overall. Throughout the
project, BAPEDAL followed Bank procedures. With respect to legal covenants, there were chronic
delays in timely submission of audit reports and Five-Year Plan updates, but compliance was eventually
achieved each year with these two covenants and was not a problem with the others.
8.    It was not appropriate to rate the operation of the project, given that it was an institutional
strengthening project, that it has recently closed, and that the assignments of authority and responsibility
for pollution control within the Indonesian governmental structure have been changing nearly
continuously and sometimes dramatically since 1996.
9.    The project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Findings and Key Lessons Learned. The Project Management Office proved vital to the level of
success achieved. The central reason for its value lay in the fact that it was clearly managed by
BAPEDAL rather than the Bank, and came to be seen as an "honest broker" among BAPEDAL, the
Bank, BDTAP consultants and a wide range of actual and potential donors. Besides its routine project
management assistance functions, the PMO provided continuing informal and confidential advice to
BAPEDAL management.
11.   A balance of "advisory" versus "deliverables" roles for the TA  consultants is useful.  In
retrospect, BAPEDAL would have received additional benefits if more consultant time had been
available for experts to provide day-to-day advice to their counterparts, especially in the latter half of the
project.
12.   BAPEDAL would also have received greater benefits from BDTAP if each of the consultant
teams had been assigned to a member of the technical staff of the unit that would be responsible for
implementing the TA outputs. Ideally this would mean designating the technical counterpart as project
manager, but this would require a change in the Indonesian regulations governing project managers.
13.   Wider ownership by senior staff "stakeholders" would have improved the outcome. Assigning
project managers as suggested above would been one way to avoid the "that's Deputy I's project" attitude
that inhibited participation by the other deputies in BDTAP. More generally, the damaging internal



v
communication barriers could perhaps have been overcome if more of the mid-level managers had been
involved in decisions about the content of the various BDTAP components, hence seeing themselves as
genuine stakeholders in the project's outcome.
14.   In the future, project designs for assistance to technical agencies should explicitly include plans
and funding for establishing, staffing and operating a repository of study outputs, and for reproducing,
advertising and distributing materials to potential users.
15.   Future Operations. The new Environmental Management Act drafted as part of BDTAP has the
potential to greatly strengthen BAPEDAL's ability to address pollution, once the necessary regulations
have been finalized. Likewise, the basic elements required for a regional presence have been created
with the establishment of regional, provincial and district offices. On the technical side, BAPEDAL now
has available to it probably more technical guidelines on laboratory practices and management than it
can use in the short-term, and a nearly similar situation prevails with regard to toxic and hazardous
materials. It also has a set of training curricula that will be directly applied in building the human
resource capacity of provincial and district environmental agencies.
16.   Sustainability. The question of sustainability is difficult, and the answers depend on which
aspects of the project are under discussion. The new Environmental Management Act and the
establishment of regional environmental management agencies (BAPEDALDA) will form the basis of
environmental management operations well into the future. The draft protocols for many enforcement
activities and the comprehensive range of laboratory reference material, staff guidelines and numerous
training curricula are considered valuable and, with minor exceptions, usable by BAPEDAL and other
donors. In these areas the project clearly has sustainable results, provided BAPEDAL addresses the
urgent need to advertise and disseminate the many BDTAP products. On the other hand, there remained
at the project's closing doubts about BAPEDAL's ability to apply the full range of compliance
instruments to reduce pollution and to minimize or mitigate adverse environmental impacts. The shift of
pollution control and impact management responsibilities to the lower levels of government that began in
1996 and intensified in 1999 leaves this aspect of project outcome still uncertain, particularly because
success will depend so heavily on rapid development of capacity and resolve in the district or municipal
BAPEDALDA.



1
INDONESIA
BAPEDAL DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3454-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DEscRnPTIoN
Background
1,    The Bank's 1989 report on Indonesia's environment identified two fundamental institutional
constraints on Indonesia's capacity to manage environmental impacts. First, the Minister of State for
Population and the Environrent had no line responsibilities, no official authority over other ministries or
influence in the budgeting process, and limited staff and budget. Second, the existing environmental
agencies at the provincial level were set up to monitor and report, not to manage or regulate. The report
recommended that a new pollution monitoring and control agency be established at the national level and
that the environmental bureau in each province be upgraded in the organizational structure and
empowered to coordinate environmental matters.1
2.    In June 1990, the national Environmental Impact Management Agency  (BAPEDAL) was
established by Presidential Decree. It became operational in January 1991. The Bank had in 1989
obtained funding from the Japan Grant Facility to assist with start-up, and the funds were first put to use
in assisting BAPEDAL to formulate a Five-Year Development Program. GOI subsequently applied
$300,000 of the grant to the preparation of a technical assistance loan. The resulting BAPEDAL
Development Technical Assistance Project, or BDTAP, was approved by the Board in March 1992 and
became effective in December of the same year.
Project Objectives And Components
3.     Objectives. The project's overall objective was to assist GOI in implementing the Five-Year
BAPEDAL Development Program through: (a) strengthening the institutional capacity and role of
BAPEDAL and other agencies responsible for environmental management and pollution control and (b)
designing and implementing adequate pollution control measures at the central and regional levels. The
overall objective was subdivided into five "subproject objectives":
1. clarify and strengthen the mandate of BAPEDAL and relevant agencies;
2. establish and strengthen systems and skills for pollution control;
3. establish and strengthen regional environmental agencies and laboratories;
4. design, develop and implement a recruitment and training program; and
5. support BAPEDAL in mobilization and administration of external finance.
4.     Components. BDTAP was implemented through six consultant contracts: (a) Legal Mandate,
Enforcement and Compliance ("Legal"); (b) Regional BAPEDAL Development ("Regional"); (c)
Regional Laboratories Development ("Labs"); (d) BAPEDAL Training ("Training"); (e) Staff
Acquisition and Human Resources Development ("Staff'); and, (f) Project Management Office ("PMO").
The six contracts quickly became known as "components".
Indonesia Forest, Land and Water: Issues in Sustainable Development. Report 7822-IND, The World Bank, 1989.



2
5.    The Legal component was composed of two, semi-independent teams, one working on
amendments to the Basic Environmental Law (Law No. 4 of 1982) and the other on compliance and
enforcement systems (Objectives 1 and 2). The Training and Staff components both addressed portions
of Objective 4 and could have been implemented in a single contract, but because human resources
management and training were initially not located in the same branch of BAPEDAL, there was a
separate contract for each. In contrast, it was logical to separate Objective 3 into two components -
Regional and Labs - because both the counterparts and the skills required were different.
6.    Evaluation. The development objectives were clear and appropriate at the time of appraisal and
continued to be so throughout implementation. They adequately addressed the identified needs of a new
and growing environmental management agency, with two possible exceptions (see Bank performance,
below). However, they proved rather general as a basis for supervision. Consequently, a set of indicators
of development outcome was prepared for each objective, based on the MOP and reflected in the Form
590 for the supervision of March 1997 (see Part II, Table 5).
7.    The development objectives presented a significant challenge for an agency as young as
BAPEDAL. The burden of administering six technical assistance contracts was demanding in itself. At
inception, the large number of consultants overwhelmed the small number of available staff.
Conversely, the consultants complained that they had no BAPEDAL counterparts. When the components
began to produce deliverables, the complexity and volume of material and the resulting demands for
informal feedback and formal review required time commitments from staff who were by then more
numerous, but who also had heavy operational obligations.
8.    Purposes and results of loan extension. BAPEDAL requested a one-month extension of the
closing date to July 1997 to allow sufficient time for review of final reports from the consultants, most of
whose contracts were ending on the original closing date because of initial procurement delays. Four
months later, the Minister asked the Bank to make available the unused loan balance (approximately
$300,000) to support BAPEDAL in responding to the serious forest fires of 1997. The loan was reopened
and extended to close on June 30, 1998. Three small consulting contracts were issued, to assist in: (i)
formulating forest fire control legislation, (ii) developing a BAPEDAL information system for forest fire
management; and (iii) designing a national forest fire research and training center. A third closing date
extension to December 31, 1998 was granted because of delays caused by the political events in the first
half of 1998. In the meantime, issuance of implementing regulations for the Environmental Management
Act of 1997 had been made a condition of IMF funding to Indonesia, and BAPEDAL used some of the
remaining balance to draft four of them.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    Quantitative criteria for judging the progress and performance of the project were only
established in late 1996, and only for those parts of the project amenable to measurement. Consequently,
this assessment is based on a mixture of qualitative and quantitative assessment and informed
professional judgments. A round of structured interviews were conducted by the original ICR mission
(1997) with all senior staff involved in BDTAP, and with the managers of the most significant donor-
funded support - AusAID, CIDA, JICA, GTZ and ADB.
10.   The project's single most notable achievement was the preparation of the legal draft of the new
Environmental Management Act (Act No. 23 of 1997). BDTAP also supported BAPEDAL in promoting
its passage. Nearly as important was support to MHA in developing the legal and administrative
framework for provincial and district environmental agencies (BAPEDALDA).  In these two
accomplishments alone, BDTAP substantially exceeded Subproject Objective 1.



3
11.   BDTAP exceeded Subproject Objective 3 in supporting the establishment of three regional
offices of BAPEDAL (BAPEDAL Wilayah) and the authorization of 25 provincial BAPEDALDA;
preparing the initial blueprint of working relationships among central, provincial and district
environmental agencies; identifying a network of regional laboratories; developing lab quality assurance,
certification and procedures manuals; and training EMC laboratory staff.
12.   BDTAP combined with an increase in BAPEDAL's managerial capacities resulted in substantial
achievement of Subproject Objective 4. Among the significant outputs were: a comprehensive set of
training curricula (31 modules); a five-year training program; detailed procedures for analysis of needs,
preparation of job descriptions, recruitment, and performance appraisal; career patterns and an
organizational management information system. During the life of the project, BAPEDAL staff increased
in number from 53 in a single office to 590 in the central office, three regional offices and the central
laboratory.
13.   The PMO component supported BAPEDAL in managing BDTAP and other donor-funded
projects, provided "on-the-job" training in project management, and coordinated the BDTAP
components. It assisted BAPEDAL in obtaining more than US$ 300 million in additional donor loan and
grant funding. In accomplishing this, the PMO exceeded Subproject Objective 5.
14.   Evaluating the extent to which Subproject Objective 2 was achieved is more difficult, because it
called for not only design of systems and strengthening of skills in pollution control but also
implementation of the results. The project substantially achieved its design and strengthening objectives,
but implementation has been limited. For instance, the Legal component prepared model wastewater
discharge permits for 22 industries; wrote standard operating procedures for permit writers and
inspectors; and conducted training, overseas for investigators and "on-the-job" for inspectors. However,
the permit system has not been implemented, the inspectors and investigators are underutilized, and no
enforcement actions have been taken.
15.   On balance, the project substantially achieved its five subproject objectives, all of which fall into
the Bank categories of sector policies or institutional development, or both. In terms of its two overall
development objectives, BDTAP succeeded in assisting BAPEDAL with the first one, to become a
stronger, more capable environmental management institution. It was partially successful with the
second; the design of adequate pollution control measures was accomplished, but BAPEDAL has not yet
progressed very far with making these measures operational.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   Factors not generally subject to Government control. The risks noted in the MOP were
correctly identified, and one of them was the unpredictability of the pace of change in a new institution.
This risk was overcome sufficiently to allow the project to reach a satisfactory outcome, but the youth of
BAPEDAL was nevertheless the single most important factor affecting project implementation. The
agency was formally established in June 1990. Confusion about mandate and role and lack of trained and
experienced staff were obvious constraints during the first years, and there was a major reorganization in
late 1994. BAPEDAL had to find its place within the Indonesian bureaucracy at the same time as it had
to start up its pollution control and impact management functions and manage this complex technical
assistance project.
17.   Factors generally subject to Government control. BAPEDAL was immediately faced with long-
neglected pollution problems, and it was handicapped in its ability to respond. Its authority for
undertaking inspections, collecting evidence and prosecuting serious polluters was not clear (hence
Subproject Objective 1), and it was consequently reluctant to exert much force in the sectors overseen by
the more powerful and well-established line ministries. On the few occasions in which it attempted to



4
prosecute environmental offenses, the cases were not handled by the courts in a manner that was either
knowledgeable about or sympathetic to environmental management objectives. GOI could have done
more, and sooner, to elevate BAPEDAL's status in the Govemment.
18.   Also constraining was indecision on the organizational structure for pollution control at the
regional level. GOI had been considering options since 1988, at times assisted by the Bank (Tree Crops
Processing Project; Jabotabek Urban Development Project III) and other donors (AusAID's Pollution
Control Implementation Project, GTZ's project on Water Quality Management for the Musi-Mahakam
River). However, the Presidential Decree to create the three BAPEDAL Wilayah was not issued until
1994. Establishing provincial and district-level BAPEDALDA required negotiations with MHA that
continued until 1996. Furthermore, the new Environmental Management Act has ultimately failed to
provide the long-awaited answer to two critical questions. It left the relationship between BAPEDAL and
MLH still ambiguous and did not select any of the altematives that were under consideration during
drafting to strengthen BAPEDAL's authority. (In January 1999, in his own effort to increase the
effectiveness of the two agencies, the Minister of Environment combined the positions of the three
Assistant Ministers and three BAPEDAL Deputies, as shown in Appendix C.)
19.   Because of the delays in reaching closure on these issues, the BDTAP consultants had to contend
with uncertainty regarding the fundamental nature of the organizational structure they were supposed to
be supporting throughout most of the project. This had a moderate but manageable adverse impact on the
achievement of the overall development objective, because BDTAP could achieve only limited success in
strengthening regional pollution control agencies that were not formally established until the project was
nearing completion. The uncertainty also contributed to BAPEDAL's inability to take effective legal or
administrative action against polluters or AMDAL regulation violators even as the project delivered new
instruments for doing so, and, when the decision to decentralize was confirmed in the Regional
Government Act (Act No. 22 of 1999) concerning regional government, it became apparent that
BAPEDAL would no longer be the principal operating agency for those functions.
20.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. With a few exceptions, lateral
communication and collaboration within BAPEDAL have been poor since the agency was created. This
characteristic the management culture is best described in comments and quotes from BAPEDAL senior
managers, BAPPENAS, and various donor agencies and consultants interviewed during preparation of
this ICR. One senior manager said, "What we have been doing is not a combined effort." The Minister
himself observed during a supervision mission that "some managers in BAPEDAL have raised non-
communication to a fine art." Comments from the donors echo this: working with BAPEDAL is "like
working with two different organizations;" in BAPEDAL "nobody talks to anybody;" and "the protocol
of who gets copies of what... is bizarre." Despite the appointment of a former senior Police Officer as
Vice-Chairman of BAPEDAL and the sincere efforts of a management expert who served as Deputy I
during part of the project, this situation never improved during BDTAP. The covenant requiring yearly
updating of the Five-Year Plan might have been expected to bring management together in developing a
unified annual work plan, but it did not do so. Most of the burden for updating the plan fell on PMO;
there was no meeting of deputies for work planning. Wisely, BAPEDAL has now established a Bureau
for Planning within the Secretary's Office (see Annex C), but it did not exist prior to 1999.
21.   The negative effects of poor intemal communications and cooperation prevented BAPEDAL
from gaining full benefit from BDTAP. TWo examples suffice to show the impact. First, until about one
year before the project finished, the head of the Environmental Management Center (BAPEDAL's
environmental reference laboratory and training center at Serpong) did not know that an expert (the Labs
component team leader) was available to assist him in preparing an action plan for gaining international
accreditation for his laboratories. Had he been made aware of this earlier by BAPEDAL management,
much more progress toward certification might have been achieved. Second, little use was made by
Deputy II of the expert advice, day-to-day support and other resources intended for him under the Legal



5
component. Most of his energy was devoted to PROPER PROKASIH, his newly-developed business
performance rating system. Even during the loan extension period, when informed that some of the
remaining loan balance could be used to prepare implementing regulations for the Environmental
Management Act, Deputy II replied, "But that's [Deputy I's] money."
22.   Cramped working conditions and inadequate space for meetings and materials storage were
identified as a constraint during project preparation. This practical problem was addressed by renting an
additional floor in the building to accommodate the increasing number of BAPEDAL staff and consultant
teams. The rental was funded through the PMO contract. As the project closed, BAPEDAL was moving
to altogether new quarters adjacent to MLH.
23.   BAPEDAL's capacity to administer and supervise consulting contracts was virtually nonexistent
at the inception of BDTAP. Training and staff size were inadequate. PMO filled this gap during its
existence and transferred the necessary skills to the growing staff. However, serious delays in processing
even the simple "emergency" contracts for which the loan was twice extended indicate that contract
management capacity is uneven even now within BAPEDAL.
24.   Implementation delays. The loan became effective in late December 1992, about four months
later than planned, after the appointment of the PMO donor coordination advisor (a condition of loan
effectiveness). Finalizing the TOR for the five other bidding packages, completing the short-listing and
conducting the bidding processes dragged on until late 1993. Contracts were signed in mid-1994,
inception reports submitted in November 1994, and the project came under full implementation in
January 1995, compared to the scheduled date of April 1994. Much of this delay can be attributed to lack
of staff and experience in BAPEDAL, exacerbated by the internal reorganization that occurred in late
1994.
25.   In retrospect, this slippage may have been a blessing in disguise. The bulk of the consultants'
work was delayed until after the internal reorganization was almost complete and, despite some delays
caused by staff reassignments, this resulted in a more stable and capable institutional setting for the
project to proceed. Three other beneficial effects also resulted: (i) BAPEDAL's staff complement
increased sufficiently to allow assignment of counterparts to each contract (not possible in 1993-94); (ii)
MHA was ready to make some use of the assistance with BAPEDALDA offered by the Regional
component (on-schedule implementation would have prevented this); and, (iii) the PMO component was
in operation longer than expected and could provide more assistance to BAPEDAL in preparing for and
obtaining new funding support from OECF, ADB and AusAID.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.   The question of sustainability is difficult, and the answers depend on which aspects of the project
are under discussion. First, it is clear that the new Environmental Management Act, draft protocols for
many enforcement activities, the formal establishment of BAPEDALDA, a comprehensive range of
laboratory reference material, staff guidelines and numerous training curricula are valuable and, with
minor exceptions, usable by BAPEDAL and other donors. In particular, the head of PUSARPEDAL and
Director of HRD both enthusiastically endorsed the usefulness of the laboratory training material, and the
ADB-funded Regional BAPEDAL Network Project has evaluated the training curricula and plans to use
nearly all of them. These are strong indicators of sustainability.
27.   The Environmental Management Act and the BAPEDALDA will form the basis of environmental
management operations well into the future, with their influenced sharply enhanced by the economic
crisis that beset Indonesia in late 1997. At the Bank's urging, GOI included preparation of implementing
regulations for the Environmental Management Act among the reforms of the IMF assistance package
and two crisis-related adjustment operations, Policy Reform Support Loans I and II. BAPEDAL



6
responded with a will (and some of the remaining BDTAP funds), completing four draft regulations by
December 1998 (the last of which was issued in May 1999), with more in preparation. And, largely
because of BDTAP, the BAPEDALDA had already begun coming into existence before the Regional
Government decentralized environmental management to provincial and district govermment in 1999.
This gave environment a head start as the line ministries grapple with the realities of decentralization.
Clearly the project had sustainable and influential results in these important areas.
28.   Without BDTAP, the newly established BAPEDAL would have been in a poor position to
administer support from other donors or to attract the level of funding that is currently available to it.
With BDTAP, especially the day-to-day assistance provided by the PMO, required systems have been put
in place and a number of staff have accumulated substantial project management experience. However,
the opportunity requested by the Minister himself to use the undisbursed balance of the loan in assisting
BAPEDAL with the forest fires have been lost twice as deadlines for simple administrative actions
passed, had not the Task Team Leader intervened extensively. For this new capacity to be sustainable,
BAPEDAL needs to assign the trained people to project management tasks and clearly make their work a
priority - two things it does not do consistently.
29.   At the project's close, there remained doubts about BAPEDAL's capacity to use the range of
instruments now at its disposal to effect compliance with pollution control standards, or to mitigate
environmental impacts. Two central issues during the project were the agency's continuing lack of self-
confidence and clear commitment to tackle difficult environmental issues, and its inability to establish
and project unified principles and operational objectives and procedures - to speak with one voice,
whether to polluters, donors, or sister agencies. These issues are linked, and solutions depended on
changing BAPEDAL's corporate culture, a task well beyond the scope of BDTAP. In 1999, the Minister
established a Bureau of Planning under the Secretary which may help with internal communications and
plan development. To be fair, dramatic improvements in the functioning of the Indonesian judicial
system and in the strength of the national leadership's commitment to sound environmental management
are also necessary conditions, and BAPEDAL does not control either of these. Moreover, with the shift
of enforcement authority to BAPEDALDA that began in 1996 and intensified in 1999, it has become
clear that BAPEDAL will not be playing the lead role in directly enforcing environmental standards
henceforth. Now, success depends on rapid development of capacity and political will at the provincial
and especially the district or municipal levels.
30.   The outlook for regional development of environmental management capacity is also uncertain.
When the three regional offices (BAPEDAL Wilayah) were established, it was unclear what form and
role BAPEDALDA might take, and there was potential for overlap. The functions of BAPEDALDA
have been more thoroughly defined since the Regional component was completed, in a project at MHA
supported by an ADB grant (Master Plan for Capacity Building in BAPEDALDA, ADB TA No. 2598-
INO). It is now obvious that the BAPEDALDA are the operational bodies and that the Wilayah have a
supporting role. This leaves many important functions for the Wilayah to perform; however, within
BAPEDAL there has been evident reluctance to delegate responsibility to the Wilayah offices and
provide the necessary authority and resources. Signs of frustration and demoralization are consequently
emerging among the Wilayah staff. However, it is important to point out that, in May 1999, BAPEDAL
management was beginning to take on the task of developing an effective strategy related to the new role
and functions of BAPEDAL in dealing with.a decentralized environmental management structure.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The needs of BAPEDAL were accurately identified, and the definitions remained appropriate
throughout the project. Given the uncertainty surrounding the evolution of the growing organization
during implementation - correctly identified from the outset as the main risk - the Bank's expectation



7
that BAPEDAL would not only design but implement pollution control measures should probably have
been seen as unduly optimistic at the time. Project identification is rated as satisfactory.
32.   Assistance for project preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. All required procedures were
completed rapidly and the project moved from the conceptual stage (IEPS) to appraisal in four months.
Project preparation began not long after BAPEDAL was formally established and became operational, in
June 1990 and January 1991, respectively . (The IEPS was issued in September 1991.) At that time
work was still continuing on preparation of a five-year development program for BAPEDAL, with
funding from a Japan Grant signed in April 1990, and additional technical support from the Canadian-
funded Environmental Management Development in Indonesia (EMDI) project. Funds from the Japan
grant were extended to cover preparation of BDTAP and to establish the PMO.
33.   Appraisal was conducted in January 1992. Negotiations were held in Jakarta in February, three
months ahead of schedule, and the project was approved by the Board on March 4, 1992. Appraisal is
rated as satisfactory: risks were recognized, the financial package was appropriate in type and amount,
the instrument was suitable and the agency's experience (minimal) was for the most part correctly taken
into account. The one area of appraisal that can be questioned, admittedly with the benefit of hindsight, is
by what means the Bank envisioned this fledgling agency was going to be able to accommodate the
simultaneous mobilization of five separate teams of consultants. While unquestionably badly needed, the
consultants imposed an enormous burden on the small number of staff in the early years of the project.
34.   The project was supervised formally each year during implementation, and a mid-term review
was conducted in March 1996.  Supervision missions were thorough and identified issues of
implementation, operation and sustainability. Supervision reports reflect continuity and consistency in
Bank-Borrower dialogue from one mission to the next. The project benefited from being managed in the
field, for the Task Team Leader was available to BAPEDAL as needed and was able to provide
continuity between missions in following up key issues and actions. Supervision is rated as highly
satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   BAPEDAL was an infant agency with a small and inexperienced staff. It is not surprising that
some difficulties were experienced during preparation, but the borrower's performance is rated as
satisfactory. For the most part, BAPEDAL had a clear view of its needs, and the project design reflects
that view.
36.   Some of the difficulties that arose during implementation were consequences of implementing
such a project in a new, rapidly-growing organization, and some result from the internal management
problems that BAPEDAL continues to experience. It is possible to see the parallel evolution of this
project and BAPEDAL in three stages. In the first stage, BAPEDAL's capacity was low, the consultants
were desperately needed, but the burden of managing and responding to the multiple consulting teams
had a serious impact on the workload of agency staff. In the second stage, BAPEDAL and the
consultants were generally in equilibrium in terms of the demands made and responses given. Nearer the
end, many BAPEDAL staff opined that it would have been better if a small number of specialized
advisors had been assigned to support the various Directorates. However, such a format would not have
worked in the young BAPEDAL of 1992-1994, when many key positions were still vacant.
37.   Throughout the project, BAPEDAL followed Bank procedures. With respect to legal covenants,
there were chronic delays in timely submission of audit reports and Five-Year Plan updates, but
compliance was eventually achieved each year with these two covenants and was not a problem with the
others. Particularly noteworthy was the quick and effective remedial action BAPEDAL took to get the
faltering Training component back on track; the BAPEDAL counterpart manager negotiated a change in



8
leadership in which the Indonesian expert serving as the consultant's deputy team leader replaced the
international team leader and brought the contract to a successfully and timely conclusion. BAPEDAL's
performance in implementation is rated as satisfactory.
38.   Because the project focused on institutional strengthening and has recently closed, and because
the decentralization of pollution control responsibilities that began in 1996 shifted most of the direct
enforcement and compliance functions from BAPEDAL to BAPEDALDA, the project has not been rated
for operation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   BDTAP achieved nearly all of its stated objectives, and BAPEDAL's capacity in a number of key
areas was indeed substantially strengthened. Examples are training, hazardous waste management,
laboratory operation and quality assurance, and some aspects of contract administration. However, it is
frankly difficult to see much improvement in the agency's overall ability to control pollution and manage
adverse environmental impacts effectively. The project provided BAPEDAL with many of the
organizational, legal, regulatory and technical tools needed for it to carry out its mandate. but the
initiative and responsibility to make use of those tools passed to BAPEDAL management. In many
respects, management did not live up that responsibility.
40.   To be sure, there are bright spots in this picture. BAPEDAL stepped up the to the challenge of
coordinating forest fire information during the disastrous fires of 1997-98, establishing and manning a
24-hour coordination post in which satellite imagery was interpreted, converted to map coordinates, and
passed to fire response teams in the field. BAPEDAL has also for several years tried to lead Indonesia to
proper management of vehicle-related air pollution. It has also shown leadership in formulating a
hazardous waste management program (yet to be implemented on any large scale) and in the evolution of
environmental impact assessment procedures. PROPER PROKASIH may have preoccupied Deputy II at
the expense of his participation in the Legal component of BDTAP, but it is achieving international
recognition as a model for "reputation-based" industrial compliance instruments. These are causes for
optimism.
41.   But, a clear example of capacity developed and then not utilized is BAPEDAL's failure to make
active use of approximately 20 staff who received extensive training (in-country and overseas) in
conducting pollution control investigations or inspections. A second example is the unwillingness of
senior management to draw on the support provided by the project to prepare and conduct prosecutions
against even one violator of pollution control regulations. Another is the inability or unwillingness of
management to collect the personal information (education, training and experience) that is necessary to
operationalize the human resources development database designed by the Staff component, and, hence,
map out training and career paths for all of its staff. These sorts of activities are fundamental to the
operation of an effective environmental agency, hence the conclusion of this ICR that across-the-board
improvement in effectiveness has not occurred at BAPEDAL to the extent that would be hoped at this
stage in its evolution and after relatively large amounts of donor assistance.
42.   This shortcoming needs to be viewed in the light of the bureaucratic culture that pervades so
many aspects of government in Indonesia, because it may be unrealistic to expect the management of a
newly established, junior agency such a BAPEDAL, working with critical and sensitive issues, to be
either willing or capable of "bucking" a deeply entrenched system. In Indonesia until very recently, the
frequent public expressions of commitment to respecting the environment have not been matched at the
level of practice by willingness or care in planning, executing and operating most private or public sector
projects. The pervasive culture of corruption and use of political power to evade legal responsibilities -
for example, to circumvent the AMDAL process in obtaining permits and licenses, or to manipulate



9
outcomes of judicial proceedings - further impedes BAPEDAL's ability to fulfill its mandate.
Moreover, obstacles encountered in  attempting to implement "command and control" reinforce
BAPEDAL's tendency to rely on the voluntary and incentive-based elements of overall compliance
strategy that are already much more compatible with the Indonesian national temperament, which avoids
confrontation and seeks results through consensus.
43.   Taking into account all of the above, the project's development outcome is rated as satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
44.   The new Environmental Management Act has the potential to greatly strengthen BAPEDAL's
ability to tackle pollution prevention and control once the necessary regulations have been finalized.
Likewise, the basic elements required for a regional presence have been created with the establishment of
Regional BAPEDAL offices (BAPEDAL Wilayah), and BAPEDALDA as units of provincial and district
governments. On the technical side, BAPEDAL now has available to it probably more usable technical
guidelines on laboratory practices and management than it can use in the short-term, and a nearly similar
situation prevails with regard to toxic and hazardous materials.
45.   In two vital areas -- laboratory and inspections -- BAPEDAL now has detailed "roadmaps" for
progress. EMC, with continuing financial and technical support from JICA and CIDA, should be able
during the next two or three years to move fairly smoothly through the process of international
accreditation. This can be followed with accreditation of national laboratories by EMC. The
Environmental Management Act explicitly provides for civilian inspectors and invests them with right of
entry and power to collect many kinds of essential evidence. This provides the legal and practical basis
to make much more active use of the inspectors who have been trained under BDTAP.
46.   Finalizing the MOU for Regional Laboratories between BAPEDAL and the Departments of
Health, Industry and Public Works is one of two critical outstanding issues yet to be resolved, despite
repeated reminders by supervision missions and informal exchanges with BAPEDAL management.
Failure to act on this issue has potentially serious negative consequences with regard to the
implementation and success of the OECF and AusAID laboratory equipment projects, and the issue is
further complicated by need for agreements between BAPEDALDA and their sister agencies in the
provinces. The second critical issue is authorizing and effecting distribution of the material outputs of
BDTAP. Currently, BAPEDAL has no library facilities, and outputs from a number of projects are
uncatalogued and scattered carelessly throughout the office spaces. Some of the most important outputs
from BDTAP (and a number of other donor-funded projects) are at risk of being ignored or, worse, lost.
47.   An important next step is the forging of an effective regional environmental management
presence, in which BAPEDAL and BAPEDAL Wilayah should play important advisory and technical
support roles. Development of provincial and local capacity will depend on effective and clear
devolution of functions, provision of standards and guidelines, administration of training, acquisition of
staff through new hires and transfers from BAPEDAL, procurement of equipment, and funding.
BAPEDAL should take advantage of the tools developed under BDTAP, supplemented by the ongoing
ADB-supported Regional BAPEDAL Network Project and the OECF and AusAID funding available for
regional laboratories, to exert leadership in -building regional capacity.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
48.   Importance of a Project Management Office. The establishment of the PMO during project
preparation and its continuation as a condition of the loan proved vital to the level of success achieved. It
is difficult to envision how the many difficult issues that arose during implementation would have been



10
resolved in a new organization like BAPEDAL without the PMO. The central reason for its value lay in
the fact that it was clearly managed by BAPEDAL rather than the Bank, and came to be seen as an
"honest broker" between BAPEDAL, the Bank, BDTAP consultants and a wide range of actual and
potential donors. In large part this was also due to the professional and personal qualities of the person
who headed the PMO; careful personnel selection is extremely important.
49.   Balance "advisory" versus "deliverables" roles for the TA consultants.   A number of
BAPEDAL senior staff said that they could have made good use of experienced consultants acting in a
day-to-day role as "advisors." It is apparent, in retrospect, that flexibility to shift more consultant time to
this service, especially in the latter half of the project, would have been beneficial. The project design
programmed most of the TA team time for preparation of the "deliverables" that were handed over to the
client in draft or when complete.
50.   Require assignment of counterpart managers for technical components. The complement of
the above is that the client agency needs to appoint "counterpart managers" for each team of TA
consultants. BAPEDAL would have received greater benefits from BDTAP if each of the consultant
teams had been able to work with one BAPEDAL staff member as contact point and coordinator. The
counterpart manager should have sufficient seniority and experience to fully understand the consultant's
required tasks, to be familiar with the procedures of his or her the agency, to be able to mobilize
sufficient staff so that preparation and follow-up work can be completed efficiently by the agency itself
rather than by the consultants, and to carry out review and quality control functions. Ideally this would
mean selecting as PIMPRO (project manager) a technical person representing the unit(s) that would be
implementing the TA component outputs. For BDTAP, this would have meant having more than one
PIMPRO, requiring a change in Indonesian regulations that presently allow one PIMPRO per project.
Another way to achieve nearly as good a result would be to assign a "program manager" to each
component, appointed by the Deputy for whom the consultants were producing the majority of the
deliverables.
51.   Emphasize wider ownership by senior BAPEDAL staff "stakeholders". Such counterpart
assignments could also have helped to break down the "that's Deputy I's project" attitude that inhibited
participation by the other deputies in BDTAP. The responsibility for Legal would then have fallen under
Deputy 1I and that for Labs under Deputy III. Regional, Training, and Staff would have remained with
Deputy I. 52. The damaging internal communication barriers could perhaps have been overcome if
more of the mid-level managers had been involved in decisions about the content of BDTAP components,
hence feeling ownership of the outcome. A number of the managers complained during ICR interviews
that they were not asked for their comments on terms of reference and draft deliverables, or that no
action was taken in response to the inputs they gave. But, to be fair to the consultants and their
BAPEDAL technical counterparts, probably an equal number of managers made no effort at such
participation.
53.   Provide for access to project outputs. Difficulty obtaining materials produced by BDTAP has
been a complaint from BAPEDAL staff and from consultants from other projects. TA project design
should explicitly include plans and funding for a repository of study outputs and a mechanism for
distributing the materials to potential users.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                     D              0                0 Q
Sector Policies                    0              0                0                z
Financial Objectives               a              Q                0                [E
Institutional Development          0              0l               0]               0
Physical Objectives                               Q 0              0                0
Poverty Reduction                  a              El               0 a0
Gender Issues                      0              al               El               0
Other Social Objectives            Q              Q                0                0
Environmental Objectives           5              5                El               EE
Public Sector Management           a               5               0l 
Private Sector Development         a              D                D                0
Other (specify)                    5               5               a                03
B. Project Sustainability           Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                  ghly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                     0              0                El
Preparation Assistance             0              0l               0l
Appraisal                          Cl             0E 0
Supervision                        0             E                 E
D. Borrower Performance              Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                        D             E                 0.
Inplementation                      l             0                El
Covenant Compliance                a              3                El
Operation (if applicable)          El             El               El
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly                                           Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Ol             [                El               D
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                       approval    Status
Loan 3246-IND, Third   Urban development, but included study of institutional  1991   Ongoing,
JABOTABEK Urban        arrangements for environmental management in area.            Satisfactory
Loan 3000-IND,         Agric. Dev., but included study of env. mgt. institutional    1989  Closed
Tree Crop Processing   arrangements for N. Sumatra and W. Kalimantan



12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned      r      Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       September 1991         September 1991
Preparation (start/complete)                     May 91/Jan 92          May 91/Jan 92
Appraisal                                        January 1992           January 1992
Negotiations                                     May 1992               February 1992
Board Presentation                               June 1992              March 1992
Signing                                                                 May 1992
Effectiveness                                   August 1992             December 1992
Midterm review (if applicable)                   September 1995         November 1995
Project Completion                               February 1997          June 1997
Loan Closing                                     June 1997              December 1998
TABLE 4: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Date        I   Cumulative   ]   Estimated    ]         Actual       I    Act./Est.
30-Jun-92          977,822.17                           977,822.17             --
01-Jul-93         1,249,883.78       1,000,000          272,061.61            27%
01-Jul-94        4,380,548.26        3,000,000         3,130,664.48           104%
01-Jul-95        7,582,446.32        3,500,000         3,201,898.06           91%
01-Jul-96        11,428,323.61       2,500,000         3,845,877.29           153%
01-Jul-97        11,695,761.19       2,000,000          267,890.32             13%
01-Jul-98        11,695,761.19           0                  0                   --
30-Apr-99         12,000,000.00          0              304,238.91
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION2
l______T                         Key Indicators                                Outcome
1    Specific elements of new legislation identified                        Complete
2    Interagency agreements or informal arrangements formulated               Partial
3    Pollutant discharge permit system designed and implemented              Partial
4    Number of test enforcement and compliance cases                          None
5    3 to 5 regional/provincial enviromnental agencies established          Complete
6    Plan for laboratory training and certification developed and tested      Partial
7    Annual growth in BAPEDAL staff complement                              Complete
8    Annual growth in BAPEDAL operating budget                              Complete
9    Amount of external funding obtained by BAPEDAL                         Complete
2 Indicators for preject implementation were not identified in the MOP but were derived from the MOP in 1996.



13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION3
F-                                   Key Indicators
1    Regulations supporting new legislation drafted and signed
2     Interagency agreements or informal arrangements finalized
3     Pollutant discharge pernit system implemented
4     Number of test enforcement and compliance cases
5     Plan for laboratory training and certification implemented
6     Annual growth in BAPEDAL staff complement
7     Annual growth in BAPEDAL operating budget
TABLE 7: RESULTS OF TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Component                         Topic & Training Method                           Date
(T = formal training course, W = workshop)
Legal           Environmental Law Enforcement for State Police (T)                8/95
Refining the Academic Draft for Environmental Management Law (W)    8/95
Discussion on Academic Draft for Air Quality Regulation (W)       8/95
Discussion on Draft of Environmental Management Law (W)           10/95
Development of Licensing and Environmental Law Compliance System  5/97
Regional        Joint Technical Working Team (BAPEDAL, PPLH) (W)                   1/95
Establishment of BAPEDALDA I AND II (W)                          2/95
Joint Technical Working Team (BAPEDAL, PPLH ) (W) - x 9           1/95-6/95
BAPEDAL Wilayah Organizational Structure (W)                      5/95
Roles of BAPEDAL Wilayah/BAPPEDALDA (W)                           6/95
BAPEDAL Ministerial Decree for Regional Organization (W)          6/95-9/95
Central and Regional ITraining Needs Assessment (W) - x 5        8/95-10/95
Working Relationships for Environmental Management (W)           4/96-8/96
Forest Fire Management (W)                                        5/96
BAPEDAL Wilayah and Pemda Introductions (W) - x 3                 5/96-8/96
Comparative Study Tours to NZ, USA & Canada                      7/96-11/96
Development Plans for BAPEDAL Wilayah (W) - x3                    8/96-10/96
.____________  Finalizing BAPEDAL Wilayah Development Plans (W) x 2            3/96-4/96
Laboratories    QA/QC Practices for PROKASIH Analysts (T)                          1/96
Analytical Criteria for Indonesian Laboratories (T)               1/96-2/96
Wastewater Discharge Permits (with Legal) - x 2 (W)               3/96
Basic QA/QC Practices for Laboratories (T)                       4/96
Technical Workshop on Laboratories (W)                            6/96
Overseas Training (Canada) - QA/QC (T)                            7/96-8/96
Application of QA/QC Methods (Regional) - x 27 provinces (T)      1996/97
Staff & HRD     Workshops for Functional Positions (W)                             1997
Training        Computer Skills (T)    .                                           12/94
English Language (T)                                             4/95-6/95
3 Operation indicators were not identified in the MOP. These indicators have been chosen to reflect: (i) completion of activities
that remained outstanding at the end of BDTAP implementation and (ii) continuing growth in capacity and expansion of
operations.



14
Office Management for Support Staff (T)                          4/95-6/95
Training of Trainers - Facilitation (T)                          7/95
Training of Trainers - AMDAL (T)                                 9/95
Approaches to Environmental Management (T)                       10/95
Preparing a Matrix for Functional Positions (W)                  5196
Environmental Management Technical Training (T) - x 89           5/96-4/97
Improving Environmental Law Compliance (W)                       8196
Strengthening Enviromnental Law Enforcement - (T)                8/96
Preparation of SOP for Training Administration (W)               8/96
Coastal Zone Management - (T)                                    11/96
Secretarial Staff Skills (T)                                     11/96
Training Curriculum Development (W) - x 3                        1/97-4/97
Improving Community Awareness and Education (W)                  4/97
Environmental Executive Management (T)                           6/97
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION)4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  J   Appraisal Estimate                             _      Actual
Item                     Local | Foreign [ Total  Local  Foreign l Total
Strengthening BAPEDAL's Mandate               0.6     1.0      1.6
Pollution Control Systems                     1.6     2.5      4.1
Legal Mandate, Enforcement & Compliance                               2.471    1.800    4.271
Regional Agency and Laboratory Support        1.7     3.0      4.7
Regional Institutions                                                 1.744   0.516    2.260
Regional Laboratories                                                 0.831    0.683    1.514
Recruitment and Training                      1.3     0.7      2.0
Staff Acquisition & HRD                                               0.609   0.198    0.807
Training                                                              0.673    0.618    1.291
External Resources Administration             1.1     0.8      1.9
Project Management Office                                             1.103    1.728    2.831
Contingencies                                 0.4     0.3      0.7
BAPEDAL Building Renovations                                          1.067             1.067
Forest Fire Emergency/Implementing Regulations                        0.339             0.339
Total   6.7     8.3      15.0   8.837   5.543   14.380
4 Names of components were modified between appraisal and implementation, In the table the name of the original component
and proposed amount are given on one line, followed by the samne information for the actual implementation contract(s); the
original names and amounts are in italics.



15
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
l                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appraisal Estimate          Actuall
Source            Local  ApForeisa      Total       Local       Foreign   [Total
GOI                            2.6         -          2.6        2.380        0.0       2.380
Japan Grant                    0.1        0.3         0.4         0.0         0.0        0.0
IBRD                           4.0        8.0        12.0        6.457       5.543      12.000
Total                6.7        8.3        15.0       8.837       5.543      14.380
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applicable.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF COVENANTS IN LOAN AGREEMENT
Originalt
Section    Type  Status  Fulfillment       Description of Covenant           Comments
Date
2.02 (b)      01       C       2/28/93    GOI to open and maintain a
l_____ _______                Special Account
3.01          04       C       9/22/93    BAPEDAL provide manage-    Some delays in counter-
ment and resources as needed    part staff appointments
3.02          05       C        12/92     BAPEDAL employ consultants  Effectiveness condition
for donor coordination
3.03          09      CP       12/15/94    BAPEDAL provide copies of    Number of reports and
l____ ______                  reports to Bank               outputs still outstanding
3.04          05      CD       9/20/30    BAPEDAL prepare a detailed    Plan prepared, updated
annual work programn, in      annually, but not used a
accordance with 5-year        guide to annual work
development plan              program or budget.
3.05          05       C       9/20/93    BAPEDAL maintain Project       Operated well
l____ _____                   Management Office              supporting BAPEDAL
4.01 (a)       01      C       9/20/93    BAPEDAL maintain financial
records and accounts
4.01 (b)(i)   01      CD       9/21/93    BAPEDAL arrange for audit    All audits unqualified,
some late.
4.01 (b)(ii)    01    CD       12/31/94    BAPEDAL provide Bank with   Some reports received
audit reports                 late.
4.01 (b)(iii)    09   CP       9/21/93    BAPEDAL to provide the Bank  No systematic provision
with other related reports    of reports
4.01 (c)      01       C       9/21/93    BAPEDAL to maintain records
for statements of expenditures                       l
6.01          05       C        12/92     BAPEDAL to employ PMO          Effective in assisting
and donor coordination advisor  with all donors
Covenant Class:                                                 Status:
I= Accounts/audits          8 = Indigenous people               C  = covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/revenue   9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementation not  CP = complied with partially
3= Flow and utilization of project  covered by categories 1-9   NC = not complied
funds                   I1 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4= Counterpart funding          budgetary or other resources
5= Management aspects of the    allocation
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6= Environmental covenants      regulatory/institutional action
7= Involuntary resettlement  13 = Other



16
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project is in compliance with all applicable operational manual statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY          1992    1993  [ 1994  | 1995  [ 1996  | 1997  | 1998 | 1999 [ Total l
Preappraisal        84.1                                                                 84.1
Appraisal            0.9                                                                  0.9
Negotiations         8.5                                                                  8.5
Supervision          5.9     24.1      35.9      38.7    40.0    44.8    5.9            195.3
Completion                                                                15.6   5.2   20.8
Totals         99.4     24.1      35.9     38.7    40.0    44.8   21.5   5.2  309.6
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Number                          Performance
Stage of    Date     of    Days in       Skills     Ratings /b        Type of problems
project cycle        persons   field  represented /a  IS    DO
Identification   9/91  NA       NA          NA
Preappraisal   11/91    6        17      IS/TL,ENV                l
Appraisal     1/92      2        10      IS/TL,ENV
Negotiations   2/92     3        NA      IS/TL,LC                 l
Supervision 1  9/93     3        17   IS/TL,ENV,EE   2         1   Effectiveness delays; slow
.1___  |____ assembly of bidding teams
Supervision 2  12/94    2        14   ENV/TL,ENV,   S         S   Long time lag between
LE                    effectiveness and engagement
of consultants; impending
:-_______                                             |___         reorganization of BAPEDAL.
Supervision 3   11-     3        18   ENV/TL,ENV,   S         S   Major slippage in Training
and      12/95                          IS                    curriculum development; lack
Mid-Term                                                         of participation by Deputies II
Review                                                          and III; inadequate staff-
consultant interaction
||Supervision 4 2-3/97  3        11   ENV/TL,ENV,   S         S   Lack of participation by
I     IS                    Deputies II and III
Completion   8-12/97    3        20    ENV/TL,ENV    S         S   Final supervision of main
components; lack of
participation by Deputies II and
III; loan closing extended to
assist BAPEDAL with forest
fire management, and ICR
completion deferred
IICR           6/99      1        1       ENV/TL        S      S   Brief mission to obtain
I                                      Li      l      Borrower's Contribution to ICR
/a TL: Task Team Leader; IS: Institutional Specialist; ENV: Environmental Specialist; LC: Legal Counsel; LE: Legal Expert
/b 1: No significant IL oblerns; 2: Moderate problems; HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; HU: Highly Unsatisfactory



17                    ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
None was provided.



18                                  ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
INTRODUCTION
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. Thomas Walton (RSI - Mission Leader) and Mr. Sean
Foley (Consultant) conducted supervision of BDTAP beginning August 4 and ending December 12,
1997; the mission also prepared a Draft ICR which was provided to BAPEDAL for comment but is now
on hold because the loan was reopened and extended to assist BAPEDAL with the forest fire emergency.
This aide memoire presents the mission findings and recommendations, which are subject to confirmation
by Bank management. The mission worked closely with BAPEDAL senior staff, and held discussions
with other involved government departments, other donors supporting BAPEDAL, and team leaders of
projects currently being implemented in BAPEDAL. As the BDTAP contracts had been completed prior
to this mission (June 30, 1997) it was not possible to hold discussions with BDTAP team leaders or the
Project Management Office (PMO). The mission wishes to thank BAPEDAL for its courtesy and
cooperation during the supervision, and in particular for the active involvement of Deputy I, the Directors
for Program Development and Institutional Development, and the Directors of almost all other
BAPEDAL Divisions.
2.     The mission's objectives were to: (i) review the final outputs and completion reports from the
BDTAP consultants; (ii) assist BDTAP management in clarifying any outstanding issues relating to
BDTAP completion; and, (iii) discuss possible follow-up activities with BAPEDAL senior management.
3.     The five BDTAP consultants submitted their Final Reports to BAPEDAL in June 1997. The
mission reviewed these reports and discussed overall project progress and issues with relevant
BAPEDAL senior staff and others. The complete list of outputs from the BDTAP consultants is presented
in Annex 1.
4.     A number of significant outputs that were finalized during the last months of the project (and
somewhat beyond) and a number of outstanding issues requiring decisions from BAPEDAL senior
management are considered important enough to deserve attention in their own right, separate from the
Draft ICR. Thus this aide memoire for the supervision mission, which covers only the brief period
March-June 1997, is presented separately from the Draft ICR which covers the full duration of the project
from 1993-97.
5.    In June 1997, the project closing date was extended by one month to July 31, 1997, so as to
provide support for the consultation processes associated with Parliament (DPR) debating amendments to
UU 4/82 and allow time for completion of some important outputs.
6.     The mission notes that all of the BDTAP consultants provided material and advisory support to
BAPEDAL well beyond that formally required by their TOR. BAPEDAL senior management and
numerous other staff have voiced their appreciation to the mission of this unstinting support.
7.    No wrap-up meeting could be scheduled because of the demands placed on BAPEDAL staff by
the forest fire emergency. However, an earlier draft of this aide memoire was forwarded to the
BAPEDAL Vice-Chairman, all BAPEDAL Deputies, and the Director of Program Development on
October 16, 1997. It has since been updated to reflect the change in mission designation and extension of
the loan.



19                                 ANNEX B
MiSSION FINDINGS, RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS
8.    BAPEDAL's overall institutional development has maintained its pace during the final period of
the project, and a number of major initiatives supported by the project were bought to fruition. The most
significant achievements during the mid- 1997 period are listed below.
*  The signing into law in late September of Act 23/1997 making fundamental amendments to
the Basic Environmental Law (UU 4/1982) - this is a major achievement for BAPEDAL, and
one of the primary institutional objectives of BDTAP.
*  The formal establishment by DG BANGDA, with critical support from BAPEDAL via the
Regional consultant team, of BAPEDALDA Tk. I (Provincial BAPEDAL under the
Governor's authority) in 24 locations; and the inception of a process whereby at least 65
BAPEDAL Tk. II will be established. Most of these so far exist only on paper but are
expected to be operational in the next fiscal year.
*  The promulgation on October 13, 1997 of a new Ministerial decree (KepMenLH 45/97) of an
index for air quality standards (Indeks Standar Pencemar Udara). This conforms closely with
the air quality indices used by other ASEAN nations, but lacks a formula for calculating the
relative contribution of the five parameters (PMIo, CO, S02, NO2 and 03) to the index.
-  Substantial increases of the staff complement of the three BAPEDAL Wilayah: Ujung
Pandang (South Sulawesi), Denpasar (Bali) and Pekanbaru (Riau), and implementation of
continuing staff training programs (most supported by other donors).
-  BAPEDAL's budget for FY 1997/98 is Rp 39.84 billion, two thirds greater than FY 1996/97
of Rp 29.2 billion. BAPEDAL.
*  Since the end of 1996, BAPEDAL has grown by 121 staff (central 268, PUSARPEDAL 73,
Regions 55/52/53), bringing the total staff complement to 590 as of August 1997. Since the
last mission BAPEDAL has confirmed advance authorizations to achieve a staff complement
of about 1,000 (Central 530, PUSARPEDAL 150, Regions 120/100/100) by the year 1999.
-  Since the last mission the following loan and grant funding has become effective (amounts
are approximate): Environmental Biology and Regional Laboratories, AusAID A$ 34 million
for upgrading 21 regional laboratories; the second Pollution Abatement Equipment (PAE II),
OECF US$ 200 million; and BAPEDAL Regional Network Project, ADB US$ 45 million.
9.    During the final part of the project, interaction between BAPEDAL staff and the BDTAP
consultant teams continued to improve. In this period most of the written material was finalized and, in
most cases, time was available for BAPEDAL staff to review and discuss this material with individual
consultant teams. In both verbal and written reports BAPEDAL senior staff and BDTAP consultants
expressed their belated wishes that communication could have been more effective and closer much
earlier during implementation; both sets of parties, in large part, attribute the lacks in communication to
the youth of the organization when the project started.
10.   Since the last mission, a new draft of the Regional Laboratories MOU between BAPEDAL and
the Departments of Public Works, Industry and Health has been prepared and circulated. The number of
government agencies involved had been extended to include the environmental units in BAPPENAS and
BANGDA, the latter as representatives of BAPEDALDA. However, a review of the draft MOU indicates
that a number of issues remain to be clarified: e.g. (i) the scale and sources of funding required; (ii) the
activities and responsibilities for implementing the proposed environmental quality monitoring program
and, related to this; and, (iii) the respective roles of BAPEDAL and provincial governments with regard
to coordination of environmental monitoring and reporting. BAPEDAL is still awaiting responses from



20                                   ANNEX B
these departments and agencies and the MOU remains unsigned. Given the near-term start-up of OECF
and AusAID funded laboratory projects, the mission urged BAPEDAL to complete the MOU without
further delay.
11.   The issue of safeguarding, distributing and facilitating access to the large body of legal,
organizational and technical material that has been prepared under BDTAP was raised in the previous
two aide memoires. It is important that it be made accessible to the large number of new projects that are
just starting to prevent duplication of material and increase the new projects' effectiveness. This issue
has not yet been resolved, and the mission is concerned about the number of reports it received from
other consulting teams of difficulty experienced in obtaining BDTAP outputs. The need for clarifying
authorization and distribution procedures for this material is now more urgent, but to-date remains
unresolved. The mission again stressed the urgency of this to BAPEDAL senior management.
TABLE 1.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR AGREEMENTS WITH BORROWER
AND FURTHER ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
ACTION                     RESPONSIBLE            IBRD           TIME
AGENCY    OBLIGATION  FRAME
Loan disbursement cut-off, all invoices must be    BAPEDAL                       11/30/97
submitted so that payments from the Special
Account are completed by this time
Review and finalize Regional Laboratory MOUs   BAPEDAL        Technical advice    01/31/98
with other agencies for rehabilitation, equipment,
services and cost sharing
Clarification of responsibilities for obtaining  BAPEDAL                         01/31/98
formal approval for distribution of outputs
Identification of practical arrangements (CD-  BAPEDAL        Technical advice    01/31/98
ROM recommended) including funding, for
distributing outputs to users
Establish central repository/library for all  BAPEDAL         Technical advice    01/31/98
BDTAP outputs, and advise all BAPEDAL staff
and consultants of materials available
Draft ICR - Bank contribution by 10/3 1,    BAPEDAL           Draft ICR (Bank)    10/31/97
BAPEDAL review and contribution by 11/30                                           11/30*
*Note: with the extension of BDTAP that was approved 11/27/97, ICR submission has been deferred. A
final draft will be prepared during a follow-on ICR mission beginning on or about 6/1/98. In the
interim, a new version of the Bank's present draft will be sent for BAPEDAL review. We hope
that draft can reflect progress on the issues identified above.
ASSESSMENT OF BDTAP PROGRESS
Summary of General Issues
12.   The mission reviewed the Final Reports and conducted interviews with BAPEDAL senior
managers and key personnel to assess the final status of the project. The results and general issues are
summarized below, and achievements and issues relating to each of the components are briefly discussed
in subsequent sections. Actions and recommendations to address outstanding issues are summarized in
Table l above.



21                                 ANNEX B
*  BAPEDAL management needs to ensure that all invoices and any outstanding disagreements
with consultants concerning final payments are finalized so that all disbursements are
completed by November 30, 1997. [Note: this was completed on time.]
*  Draft implementing regulations (Ministerial Decrees - KepMen) need to be issued for UW
23/97 (new Environmental Management Law) so the it can be bought into force. This is a
matter of some urgency, given the rapid expansion of regional environmental capacity.
*  Their is urgent need to fully integrate all aspects of staff recruitment, training and career
paths within a unified database, especially given BAPEDAL's plans to almost double its staff
complement during the next 2-3 years.
*  BAPEDAL (and DG BANGDA) need to formalize without further delay the working
agreements clarifying roles and responsibilities for BAPEDAL Wilayah and BAPEDALDA;
*  BAPEDAL needs to assess the pace of decentralization and deconcentration. The imminent
increase of the number of BAPEDALDA will place significant demands for support from the
BAPEDAL regional offices.
*  There is still confusion as to what formal management approval ("sign-off", if any) for the
broad range of training, guidance, and technical reference material produced under BDTAP
is required, so as to allow distribution without delay. The start-up of the ADB Regional
Network Project, and the OECF and AusAID assistance to regional laboratories makes this
critical. The mission suggests that a letter of instruction from the Minister may be the
simplest and quickest means of achieving this.
*  It is essential that BAPEDAL implement practical arrangements for distributing the reference
and guidance material produced under BDTAP to users, including BAPEDAL Pusat and
Wilayah, BAPEDALDA, the 60 regional laboratories and industry has been stressed in at
least the last two supervision missions but has not yet been adequately addressed. The
mission suggests that Deputy I be given responsibility and authority for organizing
distribution.
*  There is an urgent need to clarify, strengthen and finalize the Regional Laboratory MOU for
cooperation and operations, including training, between BAPEDAL and the Departments of
Public Works, Industry and Health, including specification of implementation protocols, and
financial and operational and maintenance responsibilities.
*  There is an equally urgent need for BAPEDAL management to prepare a realistic, medium-
term plan for funding regional laboratory operations, including a scale of user charges, given
that it is unlikely that sufficient funding will be available from government sources. The scale
of costs anticipated has major implications for BAPEDAL's overall budget.
*  To sustain the usefulness of BDTAP outputs, BAPEDAL management needs to prepare a
strategic operational plan based on the elements of BDTAP and linked to continuing
improvements in BAPEDAL's own capacity and anticipated outputs from ongoing projects.
Legal Mandate, Enforcement and Compliance Program (Legal)
13.   Outstanding issues requiring attention from BAPEDAL's senior management include:
* preparation and issuance of a significant number of implementing regulations (KepMen)
before UU 23/97 can be brought into fully into force. This is a matter of some urgency, given
the rapid expansion of regional environmental capacity;



22                                  ANNEX B
*  completion and issuance of "Air Quality Regulations", "Marine Pollution Control
Regulations" and "Emergency Response System(s)" under the newly amended Act; and,
*  discharge parameters and related discharge fee structures for water and air discharges, and
guidelines for permit writing, on-site inspections, and targeting violators - need to be
finalized and officially issued by the Minister or his Deputy, and then put into operation.
14.   The work of this component culminated in the signing of Act 23/1997, the new Environmental
Management Law, by the President on September 19, 1997. During July and August the amendments
were discussed intensively by the Commission X (environment) of the DPR (parliament), and the
Minister was supported in his presentations to the Commission and other discussions by BAPEDAL and
Team A staff. In addition, Legal Team A completed academic drafts of the "Air Quality Regulations",
"Marine Pollution Control Regulations" and "Emergency Response System(s)," and these were discussed
in a series of workshops, leading to incorporation of a number of changes. However, delays in finalizing
UU 23/97, upon which these regulations depend, means that their approval by SekKab and signature by
the President will be delayed. The delays were clearly beyond the control of the consultants or
BAPEDAL. BAPEDAL senior management estimates that implementation of UW 23/97 will require the
preparation some 1 1 new Ministerial Decrees to effect implementation of BAPEDAL's new powers and
responsibilities. (An English language translation of the text of the amendments is currently being
finalized by the AusAID-funded Pollution Control Implementation Project.) The main features of WU
23/97 are outlined in Annex 3. [Annex 3 omitted from ICR version of this aide memoire because of its
length.]
15.   Legal Team B completed work on the Enforcement and Compliance Protocols (English and
Indonesian versions) for a range of issues; these are listed in Annex 1. This was followed-up by fieldwork
and providing staff with practice in conducting inspections and writing permits, provided continuing
support to BAPEDAL staff in a range of technical issues, e.g. B3, MIS and emergency response. Team B
also provided support and advice on a wide range of issues beyond the requirements of their formal TOR,
this continued during the final period of the project.
Regional BAPEDAL Institutional Development Program (Regional)
16.   Outstanding issues requiring attention from BAPEDAL's senior management include:
* agreements clarifying roles and responsibilities for BAPEDAL Wilayah and BAPEDALDA;
* the need for management to seriously consider whether or not BAPEDAL is decentralizing
and deconcentrating effectively and rapidly enough; and
* at both the central and regional levels, additional guidance from management to clarify the
respective roles of BAPEDAL, DG BANGDA and BAPEDALDA regarding the
implementation of the ADB Regional Network Project.
17.   The consultants completed the academic and legal drafts on the working relationships between
BAPEDAL Pusat and Wilayah; drafts were completed for guiding the relationship between BAPEDAL
Pusat and Ministry of Environment. Draft Development Plans for BAPEDAL Wilayah, based in part on
inputs from workshops were completed. Despite these consultations, the mission received comments
from a number of stakeholders that the material was too theoretical and legalistic, and insufficiently
practical. Almost all work on the ten Technical Operating Guidelines was completed and four workshops
to introduce, explain and discuss these guidelines were conducted using funds reallocated from the Study
Tours budget. There have been complaints that some of this material is repetitive and overly theoretical.
The remaining outstanding items were completed by the consultant during the mission.



23                                 ANNEX B
18.   Detailed discussions by the mission with the heads of BAPEDAL Wilayah have shown that the
work performed by the component in facilitating the clarification and structuring of the role and
responsibility of BAPEDALDA, and the likewise the working relationships between BAPEDAL Wilayah
and other provincial-level agencies (including BAPEDALDA) was invaluable and greatly appreciated.
However, they expressed disappointment that this effective, practical approach was not reflected in the
written output. (This work is being continued under the ADB Regional Network Project by the same
consultant.) They also noted that it is vital that the working agreements regarding roles and
responsibilities be formalized without delay, and at the latest before the end of 1997.
19.   At both the central and regional levels, additional guidance from management is required to
clarify the respective roles of BAPEDAL, DG BANGDA and BAPEDALDA regarding the
implementation of the ADB Regional Network Project. The mission wishes to draw this need to
BAPEDAL management's attention, as this new project will build upon the work done by this BDTAP
component and is essential for reaping longer-term benefits from the component's outputs.
20.   The mission is also concerned that decentralization and devolution of responsibilities and
activities, and funds to support these, may be not be occurring quickly enough. In a number of instances
when this issue was discussed, the response from senior/middle management was that the regional offices
were unprepared and/or insufficiently experienced to take over a program. This presents BAPEDAL with
the classic problem, assuming that decentralization is to be seriously pursued, of how to rapidly provide
the on-the-job training that will prepare the regional staff to take over local operational responsibility for
national programs. In this respect it is worth noting that many of these programs are handled in Jakarta by
young, relatively inexperienced staff who have only been working with BAPEDAL for a year or two.
Hence, the argument for slow or no decentralization, due to lack of experience at the regional level, rings
somewhat hollow. Moreover, the mission is of the opinion that BAPEDAL may be in danger of losing or
demoralizing young, committed regional staff unless they have (what they consider to be) a substantial
and active role to play in BAPEDAL's operations.
Regional Laboratories Development and Certification Program (Labs)
21.   Major outstanding issues affecting the sustainability of the outputs from the Labs program are
listed below; they remain substantially the same as those identified during the last mission:
*  The urgent need to clarify, strengthen andfinalize the Regional Laboratories MOU for laboratory
cooperation and operations, including training, between BAPEDAL and the Departments of
PUBLIC WORKS, Industry and Health, including specification of implementation protocols, and
financial and maintenance responsibilities.
*  An equally urgent need for BAPEDAL management to prepare a realistic, medium-term plan for
funding regional laboratory operations, including a scale of user charges, given that it is unlikely
that sufficient funding will be available from government sources. The scale of costs anticipated
has major implications for BAPEDAL's overall budget.
*  The need tofinalize whether or not formal approval ("sign-off") for the technical reference
material is required, so as to allow distribution without delay - the near term start-up of OECF
and AusAID assistance to regional laboratories makes this critical.
*  The need to identify and implement practical arrangements for distributing this material to users,
including BAPEDAL Wilayah, BAPEDALDA Tk. I, the 60 regional laboratories and industry;
the need to identify means for monitoring actual use by laboratories, providing up-dates and
delivering post-BDTAP follow-up support.



24                                  ANNEX B
22.   The work of this component was fully completed and all materials and reports required by the
TOR have been submitted to BAPEDAL. As noted in the previous aide memoire, the consultant has
provided BAPEDAL, and through them other departments and agencies, with a comprehensive set of
first-class materials for laboratory standards, procedures and QA/QC. In many respects the consultant has
exceeded the requirements of the TOR, especially with regard to training where seven times the specified
number of staff (from BAPEDAL and other agencies) from 27 provinces were trained.
23.   With regard to International Accreditation, the consultant provided the Environmental
Management Center (PUSARPEDAL) with a plan for achieving accreditation based on ISO guidelines;
systematic performance audits based on a questionnaire covering 15 criteria were recommended as
central to the process of accreditation. Despite the formal requirement of the TOR to achieve
international accreditation during the project, BAPEDAL senior management have accepted that this is
not be possible, given that overseas experience clearly indicates that a minimum of two years is required.
24.   As noted above, the issue of the MOU remained outstanding at the time of the mission. In brief,
the new draft - referring explicitly to the 39 laboratories to be funded by OECF and the 21 to be funded
by AusAID - is being circulated for comment/signature from the agencies involved. The details of what it
proposes are summarized in Annex 2.
25.   The estimated annual operating costs of these laboratories are substantial - somewhere between
Rp 10-20 billion per annum; details are given in Annex 2. The issue of how these costs will be funded
(especially in the current economic climate) or a substantial proportion recovered by user charges has not
been resolved by BAPEDAL. The need to address this issue is made more urgent by the near-term
implementation of the OECF and AusAID projects for laboratory upgrading and the consequent need for
BAPEDAL to establish a firm basis for operational funding. The mission considers it unlikely that
budgets will be able to support continuing outlays on the scale estimated by the BDTAP consultant.
26.   The issue of obtaining formal approval ("sign-off') for materials prepared by this component
(and others) still needs to be resolved. In the case of the laboratories - and with two new projects about to
commence - it is important that BAPEDAL senior management decide whether or not formal approval is
necessary before distributing the materials (e.g. laboratory manuals to other departments). If formal
approval is necessary, then this should be provided without further delay; if formal approval is not
necessary, then the relevant divisions in BAPEDAL need to be informed that they are free to proceed
with distribution without delay. This is also an issue that was raised by the last mission and remains
unresolved.
27.   Linked to this is the issue of distribution of these materials. The previous mission suggested that
CD-ROM technology be used to distribute the mass of material prepared by the labs component, given its
advantages of durability, integrity and low cost. This suggestion has been endorsed by the consultant but
so far no action has been taken to implement it or to devise an alternative. Given the vulnerability (to
fungus) of the diskettes on which the information is currently stored, it is important that the material be
transferred to more robust storage media without further delay. This issue should be resolved early in the
extended period of BDTAP.
28.   The consultant's final report raises many issues relating to sustainability of the Regional Labs
upgrading being funded by OECF and AusAID; many of these are practical operational, documentation,
financial and training issues that require attention by BAPEDAL's senior management (final report pp.
68-93). Even though the Bank-funded assistance to BAPEDAL has been completed, the mission
considers it important that these issues be actively addressed by senior management, so as to ensure the
consolidation of the results achieved under BDTAP and their continued application.



25                                  ANNEX B
BAPEDAL Training Program (Training)
29.   The consultant has completed and submitted all work and material requiTed by the TOR. Much of
the work, especially training plans and material, will be directly useable by BAPEDAL and, as part of the
ADB-funded BAPEDAL Network project, made use of by BAPEDALDA staff. The achievements of
this component have been significant in terms of preparing directly usable training materials, especially
given that BAPEDAL's Institutional Development and HRD divisions have only been established during
the course of BDTAP. However, much remains to be completed with regard to HRD and personnel
training and career planning.
30.   In the final months the consultant completed preparation of three curriculum clusters:
Institutional and Capacity Building (5 courses); Hazardous Waste Control (9 courses); and, Laboratory
Management (6 courses); these are in addition to material already submitted. Guidelines on
administrative and technical requirements for staff of BAPEDALDA were completed and signed by the
Minister. An outline staff training program for BAPEDAL staff (including BAPEDAL Wilayah,
BAPEDALDA and other agency staff) for the period 1997-2002 was prepared, drafts of training policies,
SOP manuals and standardized documents were completed, and a draft, a modular training evaluation
instrument prepared. Cooperation with the AusAID funded PCI project resulted in progress on
developing an MIS for Training and HRD.
Staff Acquisition and Human Resources Development and Management Program (SAHRM)
31.   This component was already completed at the time of the last supervision mission. The main
points noted by the last mission are repeated below. There appears to have been no action by BAPEDAL
management on these issues.
32.   Three main issues raised in the last aide memoire remain outstanding. There is still a lack of job
descriptions, except for staff at or above Echelon III. As a consequence of this, and lack of personal
information on staff, no usable HRD database has been established. It has therefore not been possible for
BAPEDAL (or the consultant) to develop career paths for staff. Assembling this information is clearly a
matter for BAPEDAL management to address. These issues have been partially addressed by continuing
work on the part of the PCI project; to-date, they have assembled full personal, professional and training
data for about 25 percent of BAPEDAL staff . Despite this effort, it is clear that much more remains to be
done before BAPEDAL has a usable HRD database.
Integrated Comments on Training and SAIIRM
33.   Outstanding issues requiring the attention of BAPEDAL senior management include:
* The urgent need to fully integrate all aspects of staff recruitment, training and career paths within
a unified HRD database, especially given BAPEDAL's plans to almost double its staff
complement during the next 2-3 years;
* The need to provide job descriptions for all staff below Echelon III;
* The need to include essential personal and educational details in staff records for all staff below
Echelon III; and
* The need to develop career paths and incentive programs to assist in retaining skilled and
committed staff.
34.   The need for full operational integration between Training and HRD has been noted in previous
aide memoires - this is being addressed, but much remains to be done. Given BAPEDAL's plans to
almost double staff size in the coming years, the mission considers it important for BAPEDAL senior



26                                 ANNEX B
management to address HRD issues raised by the consultant in the Final Report. In the coming years it is
possible that, without a functionally integrated Training and HRD system, BAPEDAL may fail to retain
the younger, more enthusiastic and committed staff that it has so far recruited, or fail to make best use of
their energy and skills.
35.   In addition, the two major points made by the Minister during the last mission are reemphasised,
as discussion with the Training consultant indicates that to-date they remain largely unaddressed:
* The need to improve practices for selecting candidates for training, so as to ensure that they were
"trainable," and that the training courses were effective in transmitting needed skills and
competencies, not just "fun."
* The need for a performance evaluation system that "works," i.e. one that links existing staff
skills, on-the-job performance, career paths and training achievements.
BAPEDAL Project Management Office (PMO)
36.   During the closing stages of the project the PMO ensured that all BDTAP consultants completed
their work, submitted material outputs to BAPEDAL, handed over equipment to BAPEDAL and
submitted their Final Reports. The PMO completed work and closed its operations at the end of June
1997.
37.   During the project the PMO has been successful in facilitating and maintaining communications
between BAPEDAL and BDTAP components, among the five BDTAP components, between BDTAP
components and other assistance projects in BAPEDAL, and between BAPEDAL and a wide range of
present and potential donors. Partially as a result of PMO's efforts, BAPEDAL now has available to it
funds and expertise from a significant number of donors, and partially through BAPEDAL there is also
significant support beginning to be implemented for strengthening regional environmental management at
the regional level, i.e. BAPEDAL Wilayah and BAPEDALDA.
LoAN CLOSURE.
38.   There was at the time of the mission a range of substantive issues associated with closure of the
loan, which occurred on July 31, 1997; matters associated with preparing the ICR are dealt with under a
separate heading. The major substantive actions required are:
* ensuring that any outstanding disagreements with consultants over final payments are resolved
and all invoices are processed to ensure payment within four calendar months of loan closure, i.e.
no later than November 30, 1997, after which the Special Account will be closed and no further
disbursements will be permitted under Bank regulations;
*  unambiguous confirmation by BAPEDAL of handover of all materials (reference, software,
databases and equipment) to the BAPEDAL units responsible for ongoing operation and
maintenance (the procedure implemented by Director of Program Development for SAHRM was
judged to be effective and was supposed to be the model for other contracts);
* identifying and collecting and (where appropriate) all reference materials prepared under the
project;
* ensuring that relevant materials are'promptly made available to projects that have recently or are
about to start, e.g. ADB, OECF and AusAID; and,
* preparing for a final financial audit of the loan.
The first of these has been accomplished, and all consultants report that they received payment in full.
The last one, final audit, can be deferred until after the new loan closure date, June 30, 1998. However,



27                                  ANNEX B
the annual project and special account audit reports will be due on December 31, 1997. The other three
matters still need attention.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
39.   The mission discussed the requirements for the ICR in early 1997 with Deputy I, the Directors of
Institutional Development and Program Development, PMO and BAPPENAS and provided them with
copies of OP, BP and GP 13.55 (the Bank guidelines for ICR preparation). Agreement was reached on
actions required, responsibility and schedule as described below (Table 2). The mission subsequently
modified the dates to reflect the closing date extension to June 30, 1998. New dates are shown in
brackets.
40.   The ICR will primarily assess: (i) the degree of achievement of project objectives; (ii) prospects
for the project's sustainability; (iii) Bank and BAPEDAL performance; (iv) project outcomes; (v) the plan
for the project's future operations; and, (vi) identify lessons leamt from implementation.
FUTURE ASSISTANCE TO BAPEDAL
41.   Possible follow-on work was discussed during the mission, but the forest fire emergency
precluded any decisions except to reopen the loan and expend the remaining balance (approximately
$300,000) for three projects: development of standard operating procedures for forest fires, development
of an information system for fires and similar environmental disasters, and establishment of a forest fire
research and training center in Palangkaraya, Central Kalimantan. TORs should be finalized and
submitted to RSI as soon as possible so that the work can be completed before the next dry season.
TABLE 2. ICR PROCESSING SCHEDULE
ACTION                        RESPONSIBILITY              TARGET DATE
Advise borrower on ICR steps and data  Bank (supervision mission)    02-03/97 (completed)
requirements.
Prepare/update plan and performance    BAPEDAL                       submit to Bank 06/97
indicators for operational phase of                                        [04/98]
project.
Accumulate data for ICR.            Bank (RSI)/BAPEDAL (PMO)         submit at start of ICR
mission
Conduct ICR Mission and review      Bank (RSI)/BAPEDAL                    08-10/97
operational plan; provide preliminary                                      [06/98]
views in aide-memoire.
Prepare draft ICR and submit to     Bank (RSI)                              08/97
BAPEDAL for comment                                                        [07/98]
ICR Workshop                        BAPPENAS/BAPEDAL/Bank                10/97 [07/98]
Prepare borrower's evaluation and   BAPEDAL/BAPPENAS                        10/97
comments on Bank's draft.                                                  [09/98]
Prepare ICR for internal review and  Bank (RSI)                             11/97
clearance.                                                                 [10/98]



28                                 ANNEX B
Print and distribute ICR to Bank staff,   Bank (RSI)                       12/97
borrower agencies                                                         [11/98]
Transmit ICR to Bank Board         Bank                                 01/98 [12/98]
OED comments to management and     Bank (Operations Evaluation             02/98
Board                              Departnent)                            [01/99]
BAPEDAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
42.   The annual revision of the Five-Year BAPEDAL Development Plan, required by loan covenant,
was submitted on April 22, 1997.
ANNUAL FINANCIAL AUDIT
43.   RSI received unqualified financial reports of BPKP audits on February 19, 1997 for FY 1996/97
for the Special Account and the project. The audit reports for FY 1997/98 are due December 31, 1997.



29                                   ANNEX B
ANNEX 1
SUMMARY OF OUTPUTS (1993-97) FROM ALL BDTAP COMPONENTS
This Annex summarizes the outputs of each of the six BDTAP components.
BDTAP Legal Mandate Development
The Amendment to Undang Undang 4/1982 had its second reading in DPR during July to September
1997, and was signed into law at the end of September. Regulations for the Draft Marine, Air and Water
Pollution Control Regulations, the Draft KepPres for Emergency Response, and the existing Water
Pollution Control and Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations will need to be revised to be in
accordance with the Amended Environmental Management Act. Many new and revised supporting
Guidelines (Pedoman) and Directives (Keputusan) will be needed. The Legal Drafting Team assisted
MLH and BAPEDAL during final debate of Amendments to WU 4/92 in the DPR during June -
September, 1997.
BDTAP Enforcement & Compliance Systems
The Enforcement and Compliance Systems Development Team has completed technical advisory
and training services to BAPEDAL as per their Terms of Reference.
Enforcement & Compliance Protocols completed include:
SOP's for Discharge Permit Writers
SOP's for Environmental Inspectors
SOP for Environmental Investigations
Model Waste Water Discharge Permits for 22 Industries.
Enforcement & Compliance Systems Advisory team technical assistance included:
BAPEDAL Management Information Systems Design
Hazardous Wastes Management Support
Guidance for Calculating LD5O Values for B3 Wastes
Emergency Response System Recommendations
Emergency Response System software
Recommendations for an Environmental Fund.
Assistance to AMDAL Directorate
Review of PT Freeport Environmental Audit
Support to JAGA NUSA enforcement cases
Workshops with BAPEDAL Wilayah 1, III and 111.
Enforcement & Compliance Systems Training & Transfer of Knowledge
Environmental Inspectors Training - Indonesia
Environmental Inspectors Safety Training - Indonesia
Internship Program with Environmental Protection Agency - in USA



30                                 ANNEXB
Kantor Wilayah Office Administration Training - 1, 11 & III.
BDTAP Regional Institutional Development Program
The Regional Institutional Development team have completed the substantive deliverables of
their Terms of Reference as agreed with BAPEDAL. Outputs included:
"Integrated Environmental Management." This Concept Paper presented concepts and options for
the decentralization of environmental management in Indonesia and served as the Team's
foundation policy and strategy document for subsequent work.
The Team prepared 26 Discussion Papers and 6 Working Papers on policy and strategy issues
related to the development of regional environmental management institutions and associated
human resources development and decentralization issues.
Development Plans for BAPEDAL Kantor Wilayah I, II & III were prepared jointly with the
Kepala and Staff of each BAPEDAL Kantor Wilayah Office.
Technical Operational Guidelines (10 volumes) were produced for reference use by BAPEDAL
Pusat and Wilayah personnel. These internal Guidelines should be updated annually by
BAPEDAL in the future, and a version developed and distributed as Environmental Management
Guidelines for use by BAPEDALDA and sectoral agencies.
A Legal Draft on Working Relationships between BAPEDAL Pusat & Wilayah, and a Legal
Draft on Working Relationships between BAPEDAL Pusat & MLH were completed and
submitted to BAPEDAL.
The Team supported training needs assessment certification, and curriculum design
recommendations related to the development of human resources for the BAPEDAL Wilayah and
BAPEDAL Daerah. This information was utilized by the BAPEDAL Training Program.
The program sponsored BAPEDAL staff training in:
HRD Planning - USA
Comparative Study - New Zealand
Opacity Training - Canada
Comparative Study EPA - USA
The Team organized workshops and seminars in support of the institutional development of
BAPEDAL Wilayah, BAPEDALDA and sectoral agencies involved in environmental
management.
BDTAP Regional Laboratory Development Planning, Certification and Training Program
The BDTAP Regional Laboratory Development team has completed field work, workshops and
seminars, prepared and submitted recommendations, working and discussion papers, and completed all
training programs as required in the Terms of Reference.
The Regional Laboratory Development Outputs included:
Final Report, June 1997
Summary of Pollution Sources in Indonesia and Classification
Regional Laboratory Survey



31                                  ANNEX B
Regional Laboratory Development Plan
Standard Operating Procedures for Laboratories (4 vols.)
Laboratory Development and Cost of Analysis (2 vols.)
Sampling Methods (3 vols.)
Quality Assurance and Quality Control Manual (5 vols.);
Good Laboratory Practice (3 vols.)
National and Intemational Accreditation Systems for Environmental Labs (4 vols.)
Training programs completed included:
Overseas Training 10 BAPEDAL Staff - Vancouver, Canada;
QA/QC Training for Regional Laboratory Managers at PUSARPEDAL
QA/QC Training for Regional Laboratory Managers in the Regions
Supply of Training Materials for Environmental Laboratories.
The Regional Laboratory Development team has supported BAPEDAL Workshops and Seminars
related to development of regional Environmental Laboratories, and provided technical advisory support
to BAPEDAL Deputy III Director 2.
BDTAP Training Program
The team completed research and field work, conducted workshops and seminars, and prepared
and submitted working and discussion papers, recommendations, standard operating procedures, and
training curricula as required by their Terms of Reference.
The Training team completed the following recommendations:
Training Information Management Systems
Pengembangan Jabatan Fungsional BAPEDAL
Training Needs and Existing Curriculum;
Training Management Recommendations and Standard Operating Procedures.
The team prepared a draft of Keputusan Kepala BAPEDAL 01/1997, Pedoman Syarat
Administratip dan Kualifikasi Teknis Para Pejabat BAPEDALDA Tingkat I dan Tingkat 11.
The Training team assisted in the formulation and delivery of Training of Trainers for AMDAL.
New or Revised BAPEDAL Training Curriculum Modules prepared by the Team with
BAPEDAL include:
Technical Training (23 modules)
Environmental Management Training (I module)
Management Training (3 modules)
Administration Training (2 modules)
Training of Trainers (2 modules).
The team has provided recommendations for BAPEDAL Training Programs for the period 1.997-
2002; and for a BAPEDAL Training Project Phase H.



32                                  ANNEX B
BDTAP Staff Acquisition & Human Resources Management Program
The Staff Acquisition & Human Resources Management Team has completed and distributed all
reports and recommendations required by their TOR. Team assisted BAPEDAL develop management
and administrative system for the recruitment, development, promotion of personnel, and to recommend
incentives for BAPEDAL to adopt to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future.
Recommendations and other outputs by the SAHRM team include:
SAHRM Final Report, November 1996
Recommendations for BAPEDAL ERM Policy and Organizational Structure
Public Information Brochure for Attracting Qualified Staff
Recommendations for the Design and Implementation of a Human Resources
Management Plan for BAPEDAL
Instruction Manual to Enable BAPEDAL Staff to Analyze Needs and Prepare
recruitment Procedures and Job Descriptions on a Consistent Basis
Performance Appraisal Procedures and Format
Assignment Plan for Urgent Staffing Needs
Techniques and Incentives to Attract and Retain Highly Skilled Staff
Job Analysis Procedures
Career Patterns in Accordance with GOI Regulations for Civil Servants
Organizational Management Information System (Computer Database)
Exploration of Prospects for Use of Retired Persons and Students
Hipunan Perundangan & Peraturan Negara Dalam Bidang Sumber Daya Manusia 1970-
1996
BDTAP Project Management Office
The Project Management Office assistance to BAPEDAL terminates with the closing of the
World Bank BAPEDAL Development Technical Assistance Project. The Component Programs of the
BDTAP have been completed on time and under budget.
PMO reports submitted to BAPEDAL are:
PMO Final Report, June 1997
BAPEDAL Donor Project Database, June 1997
BDTAP Financial Summary Report, June 1997.
BAPEDAL Five Year Development Plan, Updated Version to 1999, April 1997
BAPEDAL Development Technical Assistance Project documents and materials provided to
BAPEDAL for all of the BDTAP Programs 4nclude complete sets of:
Original Consulting Services Contracts
TOR, Inception, Quarterly, Annual and Final Reports
Reports and Recommendations and other Program Outputs



33                                  ANNEX B
Other Donor Project Reports:
ADB TA - Establishment of BAPEDAL Regional Network
ADB TA - Hazardous Wastes Management: Aceh and East Kalimantan
WB IEPA - Industrial Efficiency Pollution Abatement Project Feasibility Studies
WB EMTAG - BAPEDAL Development Plan
WB1 JIDP III - Institutional Analysis and Strengthening Strategy WB JUDP III -
Environmental Action Plan
WB JUDP III - Small Scale Industry Waste Reduction
WB JUDP III - Joint Wastewater Treatment for Industrial Estates
WB PMCA II - Implementation of Pollution Monitoring and Control Systems in North
Sumatra and West Kalimantan (partial set)
PMO materials provided to BAPEDAL for reference purposes include:
ADB, World Bank, OECF agency guidelines, manuals and documents for the
procurement and management of loan funded projects
Assorted AusAID, CIDA, GTZ, JICA and ODA agency documents.
The PMO library of Indonesian environmental laws, regulations and guidelines; and
assorted environmental management reference reports, books and papers.



34                                  ANNEX B
ANNEX 2
COMMENTS ON DRAFT REGIONAL LABORATORIES MOU AND RELATED
OPERATIONAL ISSUES
The draft Regional Laboratories MOU currently under review proposes that: (i) BAPEDAL will
pay for renovating the laboratories; (ii) individual laboratories will be responsible for paying for and
installing waste water treatment systems; (iii) these laboratories will undertake environmental quality
monitoring tasks, in addition to their normal (sectoral) duties; (iv) the laboratories will be responsible for
maintaining the equipment needed for environmental quality monitoring; (v) BAPEDALDA Tk. I will
coordinate provincial environmental quality monitoring and disbursement of funds for O&M, and
forward to BAPEDAL Pusat via BAPEDAL Wilayah; (vi) after review and discussion BAPEDAL Pusat
will submit the funding request (DUP-OM) to BAPPENAS and Department of Finance; (vii) approved
funds (DIP-OM) will be disbursed by the project manager (Pimpro BAPEDAL) to individual
laboratories; (viii) BAPEDALDA Tk. I and BAPEDAL Wilayah will be jointly responsible for oversight
of environmental quality monitoring work; (ix) and, BAPEDALDA Tk. I and individual laboratories will
be jointly responsible for reporting on environmental improvement efforts and laboratory results to the
provincial government, BAPEDAL Wilayah and their own departments.
This, Indonesian language, version of the Draft MOU conflicts, however, with the English
language version of a similar Draft MOU regarding the AusAID project. In this English language version
the individual departments are responsible for funding laboratory renovations (not BAPEDAL),
BAPEDAL is identified as responsible for providing the equipment and training (this is not specified in
the Indonesian language version), and there are various other minor differences between the two versions.
The mission considers it important that Indonesian and English language versions are identical in intent
and the topics covered, especially as the Indonesia language version will (as far as it is possible to tell)
apply to both the OECF and AusAID funded projects. The mission reminded BAPEDAL that that this
issue has been flagged for attention by management for some four years and yet still remains unresolved.
The estimated annual operating costs of these laboratories are substantial. The consultant
estimates direct annual costs as follows: Rp 1.25 billion for the 14 II-C class labs with 100 samples per
month for wet chemistry and metal analysis; and Rp 8.19 billion for the 24 II-A class labs with 100
samples per month for wet chemistry, metals and pesticides - a total of nearly Rp 10 billion per annum;
an alternative, even higher, estimate of Rp 20 billion has also been made by the consultant.5 The scale of
these costs raises several issues. First, how likely is it that BAPPENAS and Department of Finance will
be willing (or able) to provide this level of funding on a continuing basis, or even for the duration of the
two projects? Second, if they are not willing (or able) to provide adequate funding, how does BAPEDAL
propose to ensure that the labs (and the new equipment) can be used effectively? Third, how certain is
BAPEDAL that the three Departments will provide sufficient and timely funding for renovations - if this
is the intent of the English language MOU? Fourth, what provisions might be made for continuing O&M
funding beyond the life of the two projects? And, fifth, what consideration has been given to cost
recovery options to supplement central funding and/or finance the labs after the projects have been
completed? In this regard the consultant has raised the possibility of an "over supply" of analytic
services, if all 60 of the labs are up-graded to similar levels, with, consequently, a marked reduction in the
possibility of using payments for services to cover costs.
5   The recent devaluation of the Indonesian Rupiah will have a marked effect on these estimates, as many of the materials and
equipment required for routine operation are imported. Roughly speaking, an increase of approximately 50% can be
anticipated for all imported requirements.



35                              ANNEX C
ANNEX C: EVOLUTION OF BAPEDAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Figure 1. BAPEDAL Organization in 1992
Figure 2. BAPEDAL Organization in 1994
Figure 3. BAPEDAL Organization in 1999



FIGURE I - BAPEDAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE IN 1992
Chairman
r Secretariat
Deputy for                                                      Deputy for
Environmental                                                   Development
Pollution Control
Directorate for      Directorate for      Directorate for       Directorate for Dev.    Directorate for    Directorate for Dev.
Water and Land       Marine and Air        Hazardous            Control and           Technical            of Reference Lab. &
Pollution Control    Pollution Control    Waste                 Monitoring of EIA     Guidance            Data Processing
Water Pollution      Marine Pollution I    Hazardous             Institutional &      Cross Sectoral &    |Dev. of Reference
n Control  iil       -Lontrol ___            Waste                 _Infrastructure  _ Provincial             ILaboratory
Development         Cooperation
Land Pollution &    FAir Poilution        Emergency                                                       rDevelopment of|
Env. Destruction     Control              Response               Control of EIA       Training            Environment
Control                                   System Mgmt.           Quality                                 Information
|Catal Pollutionl                                                                  System & Env.
zSmall-Sle    l      Control                                                       _Incentive System      |Quality
|Activities Impact |                                                                  Development  |       Evaluation
[Control
_Domestic Waste|
iControl Mgmt. 



FIGURE II - BAPEDAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE IN 1994
I  CHAIRMAN         I
VICE CHAIRMAN
DEPUTY   DEPUTY                          DEPUTY EIA (AMDAL)
INSTITUTIONAL AND                                                  I       POLLUTION                          AND TECHNICAL
_CAPACITY EXtPANSION                                                L        CONTROL              .     _       ASSISTANCE
u  Directorate for Program  |  I    SECRETARIAT                       Directorate for Water &                 D         f
Development      l       l                       l               | Sea Pollution Control
Directorate for           Center for Env. Information |               Directorate for Air  |           F  Directorate for Env.  |
Institutional Dev.          and Compliance Systems |                   Pollution Control                  Laboratory Assistance
Directorate for Human              Environmental                     Directoratefor Hazardous               Directoratefor Technical
Resources Dev.                ManagementCenter                      & Toxic Management                        Development
BAPEDAL REGIONAL                        Directorate for Env.
OFFICES                           Degradation Control
I         T    11 .I  III



FIGURE III - BAPEDAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE IN 1999
CHAIRMAN I
VICE CHAIRMAN
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY *
I   Bureau for General                 Bureau for
Adm. & P. Relation                 Planning
Deputy for Environmental         Deputy for Environmental                Deputy for Institutional &        Deputy for Law Enforcement
Degradation Control *             Pollution Control *                     Human Resourse                  and Environmental Impact
_                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Capacity Building * _Assessment_
Directorate for Forest         Directorate for Water and          Directorate for Institutional      Directorate for Environmental
I         Fire          l               Soil Pollutiont                                                          & Dispute SolutionD
Directorate for Land            Directorate for Coastal            Directorate for Human           Directorate for Environmental
Degradation                  a  Marne Pollution                Resources Development                Impact Assessment
| Directorate for Protected          Directorate for Air               Directorate for Private  L     6Directorate for Environmental
Area Degradation                     Pollution                     Sector and Public Role           Laboratory Development
l Directorate for Hazardous |                                      |  Directorate for Technical
l    and Toxic Waste    2                                      |       Development
Inspectorate         BAPEDAL REGIONAL                   Center for Environmental     Center for Education & Training
OFFICES                        Data & Information            & Environmental Impact
I            II                                                 Management Facilities
*Indicates positions with joint appointments in Ministry of State for Environment



