Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19473
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHIINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2210-CHA)
June 9, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal      $1 = Y 3.76
At Completion     $1 = Y 8.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        Chinese Academy of Sciences
CICET      China International Center for Economic and Technical Exchanges
FILO       Foreign Investment and Loan Office
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
KDSP       Key Studies Development Project
LAN        Local Area Network
MOE        Ministry of Education
NCFC       National Computer and Network Facility
NSFC       National Natural Science Foundation of China
NSF        National Science Foundation
PAG        Programme Advisory Group
PI         Principal Investigator
PLMP       Pilot Laboratory Management Program
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SDPC       State Development and Planning Commission
SEdC       State Education Commission
SKLs       State Key Laboratories
SLs        Special Laboratories
SPC        State Planning Commission
SSTC       State Scientific and Technical Commission
TA         Technical Assistance
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
Vice President         Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
China Country Manager   Yukon Huang, EAP
Sector Manager         Alan Ruby, EASED
Staff Member           Sandra Erb, Operations Analyst, EASED



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................................                                                        iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                          ............................................................V
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  ...................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ... 12
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...................................................................                           13
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..................................................................                                  14
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................................                              15
G. ENVIRONMENT WITHIN WHICH PROJECT WAS APPRAISED AND APPROVED .......    1 5
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..................................................................                             15
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..................................................................                                 16
J. KEYLESSONSLEARNED ..................................................................                                 16
PART :I: STATISTICAL  TABLES ...................................................................                                   17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..................................................................                      17
TABLE  2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..................................................................     18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ..................................................................                           20
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL  ... 20
TABLE 5: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ..................................................................    21
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS ..................................................................                              22
TABLE 6B: PROJECT COSTS ..................................................................                              22
TABLE 6C: PROJECT FINANCING ..................................................................                          23
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS                                   ............................................. 23
TABLE 8: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS                                                   ..  24
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ......................... ......................................... 24
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                   ............................................ 25
ANNEX  A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE  ICR ................................................... 27
ANNEX  B: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE  MEMOIRE ..................................................................                           3 1
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
Wor]ld Bank authorization.



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2210-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Key Studies
Development Project in China, for which Credit 2210-CHA in the amount of SDR 92.9
million ($131.2 million equivalent) was approved on March 15, 1991 and made effective
on June 4, 1991. The credit was closed on December 31, 1998. There were three
extensions of the project for a total of two and a half years. The credit was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on April 12, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Sandra Erb under the supervision of Halsey L. Beemer,
Jr. in t:he Human Development Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region
(EAS]HD), and reviewed by Alan Ruby, Sector Manager, EASHD. The borrower
provided comments that are included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Association's supervision mission
in May 30-June 26, 1997 and continued through the final supervision in January 1999.
The ICR is based on materials in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft
ICR.






- v -
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2210-CHA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I .    In the early 1 980s the then State Planning Commission (SPC) initiated the State
Key Laboratories (SKL) program which concentrates scarce resources on existing
laboratories affiliated with universities and Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS)
institutes that: (a) work on key specialties of economic and social relevance; (b) excel in
research output, staff and facilities; (c) demonstrate links with industry; (d) play a
significant role in educating graduate students; and (e) as open laboratories, provide
opportunities for researchers from other labs as well as foreign researchers to work
collaboratively on projects of national and international importance. While initiated in
the institutes of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), the SKL program moved to the
unive:rsity sector which had, after the end of the Cultural Revolution, taken on the
responsibility of training students at the masters and doctoral levels and hence needed to
be substantially upgraded to perform these tasks.
2.    While progress had been made during the late 1970s and early 80s in restructuring
and improving the quality of scientific research and training, many problems remained.
These fell into four categories: (a) limited career prospects for those receiving advanced
scientific training because of the small academic scientific infrastructure; (b) difficulties
in ac(quiring the physical and intellectual inputs necessary for conducting research; (c)
inappropriate methods of training, for both scientists and technicians; and (d) poor
articulation between research institutes themselves and with end users of technology in
industry. The Key Studies Development Project was developed with these issues as
fundamental reference points and prepared to deal with many aspects of these problems.
Project Objectives
3.    Project Objectives and Scope. The project sought to support the Government's
efforts to reform the Science and Technology (S&T) Management System by promoting
technology development, increasing efforts in applied research, continuing progress in
basic research and reforming the S&T personnel system. To achieve this goal the project
set out to: (a) increase the production of scientific researchers trained to international
standards through masters, doctoral and post-doctoral programs; (b) enhance the quality
and productivity of research in strategic areas relevant to long-termn economic and social
development; (c) strengthen the management of scientific research at both the national
and laboratory level; (d) provide a modern scientific infrastructure for Chinese scientists
trained at home and abroad; and (e) encourage scientific cooperation across institutional
and niational boundaries.



- vi -
4.     The Association and the Government developed a project that was to support: (a)
research and training in SKLs and Special Laboratories (SLs) l; (b) a pilot laboratory
management program; (c) a national computer and network facility; and (d) a program
advisory mechanism.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     Graduate Training. One of the objectives of the project was to enhance the
training of graduate and post-graduate students in science and technology in selected
laboratories, to the highest international levels. By the end of 1997 the combined MSc
and Ph.D. enrollments surpassed the 1996 target by 6.5 percent.2 Similarly, the post-
doctoral enrollments for the period 1988 to 1997 surpassed the target by 38 percent.
Another positive trend for graduate education was the small but increasing number of
students that went directly on for the Ph.D. degree without first acquiring a MSc degree.
However, not all the numerical targets for graduate production were achieved. The goal
of masters degree students trained in project-supported laboratories was missed by about
12 percent. This was due, in part, to strict quotas for graduate students imposed by the
Ministry of Education (MOE). The ratio of MSc to Ph.D. enrollments decreased from
2.67 in 1992 to 1.61 in early 1997, a positive change, as Ph.D. students are normally
trained to the state-of-the art in their respective fields. The MOE recently adopted a
policy of expanding enrollments in higher education from the current 7 percent to 15
percent by 2010. Therefore, the increases in graduate enrollments are highly likely to be
continued.
6.     Women Students. At the time of project design approximately 25 percent of
scientific and technical personnel were women, although participation of women in
graduate programs was substantially less. The project set a target for female participation
in MSc and Ph.D. graduate programs of approximately 22 percent of total enrollment. At
the end of the project, overall figures showed modest increases in graduate training for
women. MSc degrees increases from approximately 18 percent in 1992 to 24 percent in
1997, Ph.D. degrees 7 percent to 14 percent and post-doc fellows from 0 to 8 percent for
the same period. (See Table 5) Anecdotal evidence indicates that the low representation
of women is due at least in part to the perception that job availability for women
graduates is increasingly affected by the freedom of managers to discriminate against
women in employment. Job discrimination against women in high level scientific fields
appears to be growing as the labor market forces appear to be strengthening. One
observed result of this is discipline switching by female science graduate students from
Special Laboratories (SLs) are distinguished from SKLs by their sponsorship and level of funding. Many of the SLs are not
eligible to be SKLs because their work is in basic science rather than applied sciences. They remain under the jurisdiction of
their representative host universities and do not receive additional special funding from the State.
2   In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) there were no development indicators. The list of key development indicators found in
Table 5 resulted from efforts made in 1994 by the Bank and the Ministry of Education to produce indicators with baseline data
from project preparation documents and the first set of laboratory annual reports, and targets for an expected closing date of
June 30, 1996. The project was extended for the first time for one year during which the ICR mission collected 1997 indicator
data.



- vii -
the theoretical, technical and research aspects of a discipline to those of design and
marketing of the final products of the research stream.
7.    Curriculum Development. The curriculum has become broader as the research
performed in the project supported laboratories became more modem and uses more
sophisticated equipment. In addition, young faculty that were able to attend conferences
and work abroad as a result of project-supported technical assistance activities have
tended to modernize and widen the scope of the courses they teach. Interaction with
other scientists abroad, through visits and the Internet, as well as academic committees of
the laboratories, also contributed to curriculum improvement. New courses were also
introduced as a result of the acquisition and capabilities of some of the new equipment.
The net effect of all of these changes is that graduate curricula currently have stronger
fundamental components than earlier, and the more specialized courses are not as narrow
as they once were. This helps avoid rapid academic obsolescence of the graduate
students trained under the previous narrower approach.
8.    Equipment. A total of US$116 million, about 88 percent of the credit was used
for the purchase of scientific equipment, primarily from foreign sources. Whereas most
of the equipment in earlier projects was ordered as complete sets of integrated
instrumentation, in the Key Studies Development Project (KDSP) individual pieces of
equipment were more often ordered to support a research activity or a teaching program.
This large injection of new equipment significantly improved the quality and quantity of
the research performed and graduate training provided at the laboratories
9.    The higher quality scientific equipment with the greater reliability of its
computerized operation and output permitted use by larger numbers of students without
requiring very detailed training in their operation. This allows for more time on research
and thus increases the utilization rate of the equipment as well as a greater number of
graduates that can be trained during a give period. The net effect has been, lab directors
report, to attract more and better graduate students to laboratories funded by this project.
Not only can they work on the most sophisticated instrumentation but they can complete
their research in shorter periods of time. The large number of specialists trained during
this project has provided a substantial part of the human resource foundation for China's
current expansion of its high level science and technology infrastructure. Without this
increase the large investments the Chinese government is currently making in high level
science and technology would not be sustainable.
10.  In some labs, the equipment acquired made possible research results which are up
to or surpass world standards. In many others, the quality and quantity of research have
both improved notably. The new equipment, especially the new mini-supercomputer, has
enabled China to enter new fields of inquiry and to reconceptualize problems in
innovative ways as a result of the gains and measurement and computation.
11.   Equipment Procurement. Traditional World Bank procurement methods are
inadequate for projects of higher education and scientific research. One of the results of



- viii -
the use of traditional World Bank procurement methods - which encourages aggregated
packages of identical equipment in order to obtain lower prices - is that all of the
equipment, especially computational instrumentation such as sophisticated workstations,
will become obsolete at the same time thus forcing a whole range of institutions to
upgrade their equipment at the same time. Such large scale, simultaneous up-grading is
expensive and can be avoided if procurement is staged. Optimal utilization of the
equipment can also be ensured if the staging is done to coincide with the needs of the
research agendas of the laboratories rather than to the dictates of the procurement process.
Bank procurement methods also encourages bundling of similar commodities into one set
of technical specifications to achieve a price advantage that puts pressure to compromise
on the technical specification. This meant that some lab directors were not able to get the
precise piece of equipment that was needed for their research. In addition, the procedures
for buying computers is an overly lengthy process which means computers are often out
of date by the time they arrive. The project preparation team worked out a modified
ICB/Intemational Shopping procurement process which could have overcome some of
these problems but the MOE and CAS, familiar with the traditional methods used in the
two earlier Bank-supported higher education projects, chose not to use the proposed
modified procurement process.
12.   Research Funding. One of the assurances received during preparation was that
as the project increased the quality of the research infrastructure, the government would
increase the amount of research funding available to the labs. Although no project funds
were used to directly support research, in is clear that the government provided an
increasing level of research funding, both the individual project-supported labs and the
research community more broadly. The available research funds in project-supported
labs more than doubled during the three year period 1994 through 1997, growing from a
laboratory average of Y 0.9 million for 1994 to Y 2.1 million for 1997. This increasing
level of research funding contributes to the confidence that the MOE and CAS have
regarding the sustainability of the project achievements.
13.   Peer Review Research. Fundamental to the design of the project was the
strengthening and broadening of the use of the model of principal scientist proposed, peer
and panel reviewed research funding. The State Development and Planning Commission
(SDPC), formerly the State Planning Commission, having decided on the key areas in
which the project could consider applications, established a series of peer review panels
which screened proposals, rejecting some and requesting substantial modifications in
most of the remainder. Individual laboratory directors were responsible for writing the
research and graduate training proposals which would be supported by this project.
These proposals were then submitted for peer review and finally a sample of the
proposals were reviewed and approved by the Bank appraisal team. The thrust of this
design component was to try to enhance the role of the individual laboratory director and
increase his or her responsibility for the research direction of the lab, the quality of the
research and the development of the graduate programs that would support the research.



-ix -
14.   This goal is in the process of being achieved. It is an observable fact that over the
life of the project lab directors have increased their responsibilities, in the development of
research agendas, seeking funding to support a sizable portion of the laboratory research,
and, to an increasing extent, the content of course material offered in their labs.
15.   Pilot Laboratory Management Program (PLMP). Improvement of laboratory
manag,ement was an explicit goal of the project, with the seven lab Pilot Laboratory
Management Program (PLMP) being the main vehicle to this end. UNDP contributed
$253,000 to support this component of the KSDP. In broad terms, the objectives of the
program were to provide a forum for lab directors from different fields to compare
experiences, to provide a limited amount of management training to lab personnel, to
encourage awareness of technology transfer possibilities, and to disseminate the lessons
of the project to the other participants in the KSDP. Although improvements in the
PLMP labs are visible, the overall impact of the PLMP program is harder to see outside
the seven laboratories chosen for participation in PLMP.
16.  It is clear that considerable efforts were made in the 1991-1995 period to make the
project a success and to propagate the lessons learned but it was not evident that
laboratories beyond the seven knew of PLMP lessons. Possible explanation for the
disconnect between the efforts expended by those involved with PLMP and the other labs
are: (a) the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) had limited resources
for follow-up activities; (b) the special resources going to the seven PLMP labs for
managerial improvements were not available to the other KSDP participants; and (c)
there were a good number of changes in lab leadership during the course of the project.
17.   The project did not produce any one model of good management, but it did call
attention to the importance of: (a) having strong leaders as lab directors (establishing the
"director responsibility system") and as chairmen of the academic committees; (b) using
the a,cademic committees effectively to set research and teaching directions, and to make
contacts with other parts of the technical community; (c) setting clear objectives for the
lab's work; (d) developing cooperative relations with industry; (e) handling effectively the
procurement of advanced imported equipment; (f) establishing effective rules and
regulations for safe and efficient lab operations; and (g) following the main project
guidelines - "opening, interchanging, collaborating and competing." One way to
capitalize on this component of the project would be to produce a manual for laboratory
management that incorporates the experiences of the PLMP labs and to widely
disseminate the manual.
18.   Joint Laboratories: One of the goals of the project was to encourage scientific
cooperation across institutional boundaries and to this end the project supported joint
laboratories. The joint laboratories were meant to bring together labs in different
universities or from a university and a CAS institute to focus on one research topic
through sharing instrumentation, faculty and graduate students and research funding, the
objective was to support the notion that science is a collaborative venture. Five of the
projiect's 133 labs were designated as joint laboratories. This effort was not completely



- x -
successful because of the strong preference for academic compartmentalization and the
pressure on lab directors to build fully integrated and complete labs so that their labs
could be accredited. Accreditation meant increased government support for research.
Since labs were accredited as individual and not joint labs, the incentives did not exist for
true partnerships.
19.   National Computer and Network Facility (NCFC). The project sought to
support the development of a prototype scientific computing facility that would
ultimately be expanded nationwide. The objective of the component was to facilitate
resource sharing amongst institutions by establishing an enhanced computation facility
linked by a demonstration network to the computer centers of Peking and Tsinghua
Universities and the Computing Center of the CAS. The strategy for implementing the
NCFC was to first construct the local area network (LAN) at each participating institution
and then establish the NCFC backbone network connecting the three institutions.
Procurement of the mini-supercomputer was to be contingent on the successful
completion of the network sometime between 1991 and 1993.
20.   The LANs were in place by 1993, the fiber optic network linking Peking and
Tsinghau Universities and some of the Beijing Institutes of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences was put into place by March 1994 but procurement delays prevented the mini-
supercomputer from being installed until June 1996. Despite the delays, substantial
progress has been made at the NCFC. There are nearly 200 science and technology
institutions connecting with NCFC including 123 institutes under CAS and several dozen
institutes of state ministries and commissions. The center currently has a CPU utilization
rate of 70 percent with parallel computing in full operation. There are several scientific
computer projects on going with support from the NSFC.
21.   A User's Committee of representatives from nine different scientific disciplines
was established in 1997. The committee has the responsibility for formulating policies
on the allocation and use of the supercomputer resources, allocation of time, examining
and approving users' applications for computing on the supercomputer, monitoring the
operation and services of the supercomputer and organizing academic exchanges for
users.
22.   One the major successes of the KSDP was the substantial increase of Internet
access to China. The establishment of the Internet link in April 1994 was the first multi-
institutional Internet link between the Beijing scientific community and the international
academic community. Solving the early developmental problems of establishing the
Internet link has allowed for easier startup for the number of links which have been
established since that time.
23.   Technical Assistance. The Programme Advisory Group (PAG), consisting of
five senior Chinese scientists and four scientists from abroad, was established in 1992
with support from UNDP to provide continuing high quality consultation and advice to
the MOE and CAS on the overall direction and progress of implementation in the various



- xi -
componaents of the KSDP. The PAG played an important role in helping to integrate the
diverse components of the KSDP and evaluating the results of the project, both at the
mid-term and at the final stages. The PAG was particularly important in the
establishment of the NCFC, providing excellent advice on the operation of a national
computing center, the establishment of the users committee, and a review of the technical
specifications of the mini-supercomputer which become the heart of the NCFC.
However, as an advisory committee, it did not have the executive power and
organizational resources to push project implementation. This was particularly apparent
when the PAG tried to establish horizontal lines of communications between labs to share
research methods, results and international specialists.
24.   Domestic and International TA Programs. Domestic and international
technical assistance programs were designed to promote collaborative research with
foreign researchers. This included attendance at international meetings, inviting foreign
experts to China to give lectures and provide advice on research work, short overseas
visits to research laboratories and personnel training. Data received from both the MOE
and CAS show that, in most cases, the overall numerical targets were reached. However,
the quality of these programs could have been better if the foreign specialist program had
organized tours for the world renowned specialists to several universities or institutes so
that they could deliver several keynote lectures with broad integrative themes in science
or laboratory management.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
25.   Project Outcomes. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. There are
increases in graduate students trained at high levels of quality, enhanced capacity for such
training in the future, and impressive research results emanating from the project.
Laboratory management has improved and more effective technology transfer strategies
are beginning. Overall, the project made a significant contribution to Chinese research
and advanced education capacities and to the modernization of thinking about research,
education, and laboratory management.
26.   Future Operations. Experience derived from the design and preparation of Key
Studies Development Project had a direct impact on the Bank's Technology Development
Project (Ln. 3847-CHA) and, to a less degree, the Higher Education Reform Project (Ln.
4474/Cr. 3213-CHA). The former used many of the targeting and review mechanisms
used in the Key Studies Project while the vast bulk of the universities supported in the
latter project were also in the Key Studies Project as well as one of the two earlier
University Development Projects. Future lending in the education sector is now being
discussed with the government and if such new lending develops the area of science and
technology is a possible area for further investment.



- xli -
Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned in this project are that:
(a)   with appropriate resources and careful planning it is possible to accelerate
China's scientific and technological development by training its graduate
students at international levels of proficiency and in increased numbers;
(b)   it is difficult to transfer managerial experience acquired in other countries
to China;
(c)   the scarcity of equipment has made the community maximize the amount
of new equipment purchased, at the expense of acquiring adequate
supplies of spare parts and consumables for the proper operation of that
equipment. This occurred in spite of built-in assurances to the contrary;
(d)   the sharing of major facilities, such as the mini-supercomputer at NCFC or
the joint laboratories, among a large variety of research and teaching
institutions, is difficult due to the strong compartmentalized organizational
structure within the S&T community;
(e)   the dissemination of managerial know-how within and among laboratories
is slow and more efficient means should have been adopted from the very
beginning; and
(f)   the PAG might have adopted a more pro-active role, akin to that of a
managerial Principal Investigator (PI) for the Project.



- 1 -
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2210-CHA
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Project Objectives and Scope. The project sought to support the Government's
efforts to reform the Science and Technology (S&T) Management System by promoting
technology development, increasing efforts in applied research, continuing progress in
basic research and reforming S&T personnel. To achieve this goal the project set out to:
(a) increase the production of scientific researchers trained to international standards
through masters, doctoral and post-doctoral programs; (b) enhance the quality and
productivity of research in strategic areas relevant to long-term economic and social
development (these were: energy, transportation and communication, raw and processed
materials, machinery and electronics, agriculture, biotechnology, new materials, health
and pharmaceuticals, environmental protection and natural geo-engineering and basic
science); (c) strengthen the management of scientific research at both the national and
laboratory level; (d) provide a modern scientific infrastructure for Chinese scientists
trained at home and abroad; and (e) encourage scientific cooperation across institutional
and national boundaries.
2.    Policy Context. In the early 1980s the then SDPC initiated the SKL program
which concentrates scarce resources on existing laboratories affiliated with universities
and CAS institutes that: (a) work on key specialties of economic and social relevance;
(b) excel in research output, staff and facilities; (c) demonstrate links with industry; (d)
play a significant role in educating graduate students; and (e) as open laboratories,
provide opportunities for researchers from other labs as well as foreign researchers to
work collaboratively on projects of national and international importance. While initiated
in the institutes of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the SKL program moved to the
university sector which had, after the end of the Cultural Revolution, taken on the
responsibility of training students at the masters and doctoral levels and hence needed to
be substantially upgraded to perform these tasks.
3.    While progress had been made during the late 1970s and early 80s in restructuring
and improving the quality of scientific research and training, many problems remained.
Major issues fell into four categories: (a) limited career prospects for those receiving
advanced scientific training because of the small academic scientific infrastructure; (b)
difficulties in acquiring the physical and intellectual inputs necessary for conducting
research; (c) inappropriate methods of training, for both scientists and technicians; and
(d) poor articulation between research institutes themselves and with end users of
technology in industry.



- 2 -
4.    Linkages between Project, Sector and Policy Objectives. In order to address
both the sectoral and policy consideration outlined above, the Association and the
Government developed a project that was to support: (a) research and training in SKLs
and Special Laboratories (SLs), (b) a pilot laboratory management program; (c) a national
computer and network facility; and (d) a program advisory mechanism.
5.    The major risks perceived at the time of appraisal were: (a) difficulties in
managing the project given its complexity. The project included a large number of
laboratories which conduct research in many diverse fields; and (b) the competitive
mechanism that was to allocate research funds might not function as expected so as to
provide sufficient research funds to project laboratories. The risks were seen to be
manageable due to the strong leadership and coordination that the government had agreed
to furnish as well as proposed improvements in the competitive mechanism for
monitoring the availability of research funds, and by the agreement of the Government to
take appropriate action when necessary to see that mechanism remained competitive.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    Graduate Training. One of the objectives of the project was to enhance the
training of graduate and post-graduate students in science and technology in selected
laboratories, to the highest international levels. A major increase not only in the quality
of the training was envisaged, but also in the numbers of students trained at the MSc,
Ph.D. and post-doctoral levels. By the end of the project the trends in graduate
enrollments at the SKLs and SLs were very positive. The sum of the MSc and Ph.D.
enrollments in early 1997 was 8042, which exceeded the project total target of 7545.
Similarly, the post-doctoral enrollments for the period 1988 to 1997 increased from 49 to
346 which exceeded the target of 250. The modern and efficient research equipment
acquired by the laboratories with project funds permitted more research to be done in a
given time then had been possible earlier and therefore, more students to be trained.
However, not all the numerical targets for graduate production were achieved. The goal
of 5659 masters degree students trained in project-supported labs was missed by about 12
percent. This is due in part to the strict enrollment quotas set by the MOE.
7.    The ratio of M.Sc. to Ph.D. enrollments decreased from 2.67 in 1992 to 1.61 in
early 1997, a positive change, as Ph.D. students are normally trained to the state-of-the-
art in their respective fields, whereas MSc ones are not. The MOE has approved a policy
of direct enrollment of some graduate students in Ph.D. programs without requiring them
to first obtain MSc degrees. This is an important step because it affords a graduate
student the opportunity to work on a longer and more substantial doctoral research project
which is more effective in producing highly trained research scientists and scholars. The
fraction of the total number of Ph.D. students admitted into such programs is relatively
small, of the order of 10 percent or less, and many of the laboratories have not begun this
approach yet. It would be desirable to increase this fraction to 15 percent or 20 percent
and to extend it to all project laboratories. Appropriate new screening procedures (such
as qualifying examinations) during the training of such direct Ph.D. students should be



-3 -
introduced in order to weed out those that are not able to perform at an acceptable level
and to direct them to other programs. In addition, the number of faculty approved for
supervising Ph.D. research should be further increased and the MSc degree further de-
emphasized. The post-doc program is still quite small with only about three post-doc
fellows per project-supported lab in average over the life of the project. Post-docs are a
very important component in the most advanced modem science and technology research
activities, and their numbers should be substantially increased in the future.
8.    Women Students. At the time of project design approximately 25 percent of
scientific and technical personnel were women, although participation of women in
graduate programs was substantially less. The project set a target for female participation
in graduate programs of approximately 22 percent of total enrollment. At the end of the
project, there were modest increases in graduate training for women. MSc degrees
increased from approximately 18 percent in 1988 to 24 percent in 1997, Ph.D. degrees 7
percent to 14 percent and post-doc fellows from 0 to 8 percent for the same period. (See
Table 5) Anecdotal evidence indicates that the low representation of women is due in
part to the perception that job availability for women graduates is increasingly affected by
the freedom of managers to discriminate against women in employment. Job
discrimnination against women in high level scientific fields appears to be growing as the
labor mnarket forces appear to be strengthening and the job assignment system which was
a product of the planned economy is fading. One observed result of this is discipline
switching by female science graduate students from the theoretical, technical and research
aspects of a discipline to those of design and marketing of the final products of the
research stream.
9.    Curriculum Development. The project has had a positive influence on the
curricula at the project laboratories. As the research performed in these laboratories
became more modem and uses more sophisticated equipment, the nature of the
curriclulum became broader. Young faculty having done work or attended conferences
abroad have tended to modernize and widen the scope of the courses they teach.
Interaction with other scientists abroad, through visits from and to laboratories abroad
and through the Internet, as well as suggestions from members of the academic
committees of the laboratories also contributed to curriculum improvement. New courses
were introduced as a result of the acquisition and capabilities of some of the new
equipment. The net effect of all of these changes is that graduate curricula currently have
stronger fundamental components than earlier, and the more specialized courses are not
as narrow as they once were. This helps avoid rapid obsolescence of the graduate
students trained under the previous narrower approach.
10.   One of the problems identified in the two earlier Bank-supported higher education
science and engineering projects is largely absent in the KSDP, and that was the
development of new narrow courses based strictly on the introduction of new pieces of
scientific or computational instrumentation. In the earlier two University Development
Project curriculum development and the introduction of new courses was most often the
result of individual new pieces of physical infrastructure rather than a more holistic



-4 -
approach which took the overall research goals of a lab or the institute as the guiding
model for developing the new courses. The lab directors in the KSDP who wrote the
project design proposals had to lay out a broad set of research objectives and graduate
training goals, and these design proposals drove curriculum development, with the new
instrumentation supporting these goals rather than new equipment driving curriculum
development.
11.   Equipment. A total of US$116 million, about 88 percent of the credit was used
to purchase scientific equipment, primarily from foreign sources. Whereas most of the
equipment in earlier projects was ordered as complete sets of integrated instrumentation,
in the KSDP individual pieces of equipment was more often ordered to support a research
activity or a teaching program. Some was designed by the laboratories and built in China
with some imported components. The equipment ranged from small instruments costing
a few thousand dollars or less to others in excess of $1.8 million. Some of it was state-of-
the-art when ordered and continued to be so after arriving and being put into operation.
Some of it became obsolete between the time of selection and delivery. This was the case
for most of the computer workstations, the introduction of which into the labs was
plagued by modifications in the procurement technical specifications, export license
delays, and initial hesitation to buy appropriate application software. Nevertheless, this
large injection of new equipment significantly improved the quality and quantity of the
research performed graduate students trained in the laboratories.
12.   Many of the lab directors who presented proposals for review to be funded by the
KSDP had had previous experience in the earlier World Bank projects. They realized that
the importation of expensive, state-of-the-art and totally integrated sets of research
equipment increased their research capacity but often locked them into a narrow spectrum
of scientific work which did not allow for the disaggregation of equipment sets. Based
on this experience, directors realized that disaggrated equipment sets were necessary to
move on to additional and newer topics with their concomitant new areas for graduate
training. It was evident to the ICR mission that most, if not all, the Key Studies-
supported research labs had been able to move beyond instrument driven research agenda
of the earlier period to more project and goal driven research and had thus been able to
achieve what might be considered a "second generation" of research direction and
capacity. Many of these university labs had been recipients of World Bank funds in the
early and mid 1980s and it is evident that the way they now do science differs from when
the World Bank first invested in them. Much of this can be attributed to the international
perspective that the technical assistance portions of the earlier projects brought to the
labs. Chinese scientists going abroad and international scientists coming to China as well
as Chinese graduate students returning to work in these upgraded labs will continue to
ensure high quality research.
13.   Equipment Procurement. One of the results of the use of traditional World
Bank procurement methods - which encourages aggregated packages of identical
equipment in order to obtain lower prices - is that all of the equipment, especially
computational instrumentation such as sophisticated workstations, becomes obsolete at



-5 -
the same time thus forcing a whole range of institutions to upgrade their equipment at the
samne time. Such large scale, simultaneous up-grading is expensive and can be avoided if
procurement was staged throughout the project. Utilization of the equipment can be also
assured if the staging is done to coincide with the needs of the research agendas of the
laboratories.
14.   During preparation the Association team worked out a modified ICB procurement
process which as tailored to the special needs of buying scientific instrumentation and
computational equipment. This process was based on prequalifying suppliers and then
asking for price quotes on specific bids and was meant to both speed up the process of
buying the equipment and develop a database of equipment producers for the Chinese
purchasers. However, the MOE, accustomed to the traditional ICB procedures used in
two previous university projects, decided not to use the modified ICB procurement
process. The CAS, with less experience in Bank procedures, chose to follow the lead of
the MOE. Had the MOE and CAS chosen the modified procurement method some of the
problems experienced could have been avoided.
15.   Student Access to Project Supplied Equipment. An additional important
improvement in the training of the graduate students has been their hands-on use of the
new scientific equipment. The higher quality and reliability of such equipment and its
coriputerized operation and output permits the efficient use by larger numbers of students
without requiring very detailed training in their operation. There are still some very
expensive and complex pieces of equipment which are operated only by very well trained
technicians, but even these are frequently used while the graduate students whose
sarmples are being analyzed or tested are present. The net effect has been to attract more
and better graduate students funded by this project. For the continued health of the
laboratories and of the quality of the graduate training they provide, it is vitally important
that this equipment be well maintained and periodically updated so that a state-of-the-art
operation can be sustained.
16.   Research Results of Project Laboratories. In some labs the equipment acquired
in the project has made possible research results which are up to or surpass world
standards. In many others, the quality and quantity of research have both improved
notably. In considering the impact on research it is helpful to understand these in terms
of gains in accuracy and precision of measurements and marked increases in
computational power and speeds. New equipment has enabled China to enter new fields
of inquiry and to reconceptualize problems in innovative ways as a result of the gains in
measurement and computation. The benefits are in both fundamental science and in areas
of potential and actual applications. An important measure of the adequacy of this
research is the number of papers published in peer-reviewed domestic and international
journals and as the indicators show, these numbers have increased substantially.
17.   The most important component of the training of graduate students in modern
science and technology is the original research they perform for their graduate degree
theses and dissertations , under the direction of qualified research advisers. The



-6 -
equipment acquired by the laboratories with the funds supplied by the project has been
instrumental in perrnitting such research to be conducted at an improved level of quality
and quantity.
18.   Research Funding. The opportunities for research funding in China usually
come from three types of sources: (a) first is the "vertical" dimension which includes
various sources of funds from the central government; (b) second are "horizontal" sources
which includes projects from other ministries, contract research, the sale of technology
and products from the labs and from local governments. These sources have been
increasing over time and now constitute an increasing portion of the research funding.
Although such activities may be beneficial in the short run, they can jeopardize the long
range soundness of laboratory and the quality of the training of its students, if it becomes
dependent on this type of funds; and (c) third, are fumds that come from the international
environment. In some cases, this involves foreign companies working with Chinese labs,
or with the larger institutions of which the labs are a part (or with the case of the Ford
Motor Company, with the NSFC). International sources of funds - from foreign
governments or international organizations - are also becoming quite important for labs
working on environmental problems.
19.   One of the assurances received during preparation was that as the project
increased the quality of the research infrastructure, the government would increase the
amount of research funding available to the labs. Although no project funds were used to
directly support research, in is clear that the government provided an increasing level of
research funding, both the individual project-supported labs and the research community
more broadly. The available research funds in project-supported labs more than doubled
during the three year period 1994 through 1997, growing from a laboratory average of Y
0.9 million for 1994 to Y 2.1 million for 1997. Despite the increases for research funding
in the KSDP labs, the national expenditures for R&D increased only slightly, in real
terms after correction for the relatively large scientific inflation rate. As privileged
institutions, it is likely that SKLs and SL did better than average in staying even with this
inflation.
20.   China's research policy in recent years has sought to incorporate meritocratic
criteria, usually applied through peer review, in its funding decisions. In the SKL
program, this has led to a hierarchical ranking of research centers (and projects) with
different amounts of resources flowing to different levels in the hierarchy. Accordingly,
Chinese laboratories have become very conscious of their rankings and very concerned
about maintaining or improving them. The accreditation process plays a key role in this
process.
21.   Peer Reviewed Research. Fundamental to the design of the project was the
strengthening and broadening of the model of principal scientist proposed, peer and panel
reviewed research funding. This model was introduced was introduced into China by the
U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) through the NSFC and was used as the primary
modality for deciding on how project funds would be distributed. The SDPC, having



-7 -
decided on the key areas3 in which the project could consider applications, established a
series of peer review panels which screened proposals, rejecting some and requesting
substantial modifications in most of the remaining. The thrust of this design component
was to try to enhance the role of the individual laboratory director and increase his or her
responsibility for the research direction of the lab, the quality of the research and the
development of the graduate programs.
22.    This goal is in the process of being achieved. It is an observable fact that over the
life of the project lab directors have increased their responsibilities, in the development of
research agendas, seeking funding to support a sizable portion of the laboratory research,
and, to an increasing extent, the content of course material offered in their labs.
23.    Accreditation. Although the World Bank did not play a role in the process,
accreditation of SKLs that was conducted by the NSFC on behalf of the SPDC, (which
considered the overall value of the labs to society) and the SSTC (whose primary interest
is in operational capabilities to conduct research). This accreditation process followed an
ear.ier review of the KSDP labs which determined that they had met the criteria for initial
designation as SKLs. Once accepted as a SKL, the laboratory was then eligible to be
cornsidered for accreditation. Once accreditation was achieved the SKLs were eligible for
subostantially increased core funding from the government and became favored recipients
of bloc funding for research projects. The accreditation review for all 75 SKLs in KSDP
has now been completed with all passing the accreditation process.
24.    The situation for the SLs is different. The Special Labs (SLs) were from the start
seen as a way to support basic rather than applied research in universities and therefore
had a less direct connection to the near-term economic development goals of the country
and did not receive additional foundational government funding as had the SKLs. These
wi l not be reviewed using the SKL procedures described above. Instead, they will be
subject to review as "open labs" by the MOE which, if they pass, will provide them with
a research support budget which will allow them to both carry on their own work and to
invite scientists from other research institutions to participate in research work. It is
reported that the SLs will be eligible for "211 "4, but this decision has yet to be made by
the Ministry of Education.
25.    Academic Committees. Academic Committees were established in all of the
laboratories. These Committees meet about once a year mainly to approve the research
projects of visiting scientists from other Chinese laboratories. In some cases they also
examine research proposals to be submitted to NSFC and other funding agencies and
suggest new areas of research. The central in-house research activities are determined by
These were in the following fields: energy, raw and processed materials, transportation and communications, machinery and
electronics, agriculture, bio-engineering, new materials, medicine and health care; and the environment and earth science
engineering.
The "21 1" Project refers to the selection of 100 leading universities that will be built up in order to reach international
standards in the 2 1" century.



-8 -
the professors, the ideas they have, and the research support they can generate from
NSFC and other agencies through competitive proposals.
26.   "Progress in Natural Sciences" began publication as a result of project support.
It started in 1991 with an initial budget of RMB 400,000, the journal combined two
previous publications which reported on the activities of the SKLs. It is published in
Chinese and English by the NSFC and reports research findings from the SKLs. The
peer-reviewed articles which appear in the journal cover the spectrum of science done in
the SKLs and therefore rivals the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) own "Science in
China" in scope, coverage and, reportedly, importance. The current rejection rate of
articles by its international editorial board is from 70 percent to 80 percent of
submissions. Of China's 3000 academic journals, "Progress" is one of 28 which is listed
in the Scientific Citation Index. With a domestic subscription of 3000 and international
subscription of 30-40, the journal is likely to play an increasingly important role in
disseminating the scientific results of China's strongest laboratories both in the CAS and
the universities of both the line ministries and the MOE.
27.   In 1997 the journal won a Third Prize for scientific journals given out by the
Chinese government. The pressure to increase distribution from the current once every
two months to monthly is great as the volume of good quality submissions is increasing.
The NSFC is continuing to support the publication of the journal with a subsidy of RMB
500,000/ year. Over the life of the project the international distribution of the journal was
assisted by the British publisher Francis and Taylor, a connection that was facilitated
from the start by the World Bank. Francis and Taylor continues to support the
international distribution since the closing of the project. This jury-reviewed journal with
large domestic and growing international distribution is one indicator of the strength the
research produced in the project-supported labs. Likewise the NSFC's decision to
continue its support to the journal is an indicator of the government's commitment to
sustain the momentum of the labs.
28.   Joint Laboratories. One of the goals of the project was to encourage scientific
cooperation across institutional boundaries and to this end the project supported joint
laboratories. The joint laboratories were meant to bring together labs in different
universities or from a university and a CAS institute to focus on one research topic
through sharing instrumentation, faculty and graduate students and research funding, the
objective was to support the notion that science is a collaborative venture. Five of the
project's 133 labs were designated as joint laboratories. This effort was not completely
successful because of the strong preference for academic compartmentalization and the
pressure on lab directors to build fully integrated and complete labs so that their labs
could be accredited. Accreditation meant increased government support for research.
Since labs were accredited as individual and not joint labs, the incentives did not exist for
true partnerships.
29.   Pilot Laboratory Management Program (PLMP). Improvement of laboratory
management was an explicit goal of the project, with the seven lab Pilot Laboratory



-9 -
Management Program (PLMP) being the main vehicle to this end. UNDP contributed
$253,000 to support this component of the KSDP. In broad terms, the objectives of the
program were to provide a forum for lab directors from different fields to compare
experiences, to provide a limited amount of management training to lab personnel, to
encourage awareness of technology transfer possibilities, and to disseminate the lessons
of the project to the other participants in the KSDP. Although improvements in the
PLM4P labs are visible, the overall impact of the PLMP program is harder to see outside
the seven laboratories chosen for participation in PLMP.
30.  It is clear that considerable efforts were made in the 1991-1995 period to make the
project a success and to propagate the lessons learned but it was not evident that
laboratories beyond the seven knew of PLMP lessons. Possible explanations for the
disconnect between the efforts expended by those involved with PLMP and the other labs
are: (a) the NSFC had limited resources to expend on follow-up activities; (b) the special
resources going to the seven PLMP labs for managerial improvements were not available
to the other KSDP participants; and (c) there were a good number of changes in lab
leadership during the course of the project.
31.   The project did not produce any one model of good management, but it did call
attention to the importance of: (a) having strong leaders as lab directors (establishing the
"director responsibility system") and as chairmen of the academic committees; (b) using
the academic committees effectively to set research and teaching directions, and to make
contacts with other parts of the technical community; (c) setting clear objectives for the
lab's work; (d) developing cooperative relations with industry; (e) handling effectively the
procurement of advanced imported equipment; (f) establishing effective rules and
regulations for safe and efficient lab operations; and (g) following the main project
guidlelines - "opening, interchanging, collaborating and competing." One way to
capitalize on this component of the project would be to produce a manual for laboratory
management that incorporates the experiences of the PLMP labs and to widely
diss,eminate the manual.
Naltional Computer And Network Facility (NCFC)
32.  Implementation of the Demonstration Computing Network. The project
sought to support the development of a prototype scientific computing facility that would
ultimately be expanded nationwide. The objective of the component was to facilitate
resource sharing amongst institutions by establishing an enhanced computation facility
linked by a demonstration network to the computer centers of Peking and Tsinghua
Universities and the Computing Center of the CAS. The strategy for implementing the
NC'FC was to first construct the local area network (LAN) at each participating institution
and then establish the NCFC backbone network connecting the three institutions.
Procurement of the computer was to be contingent on the successful completion of the
network sometime between 1991 and 1993.



-10-
33.   The LANs were in place by 1993, the fiber optic network linking Peking and
Tsinghua Universities and some of the Beijing Institutes of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences was put into place by March 1994 but the mini-supercomputer was not installed
until June 1996. The delays can be attributed to several problems: the limited budget
available for the purchase of the mini-supercomputer and the export license restrictions
placed on high speed computers purchased by China which remained in place until the
end of 1993 are chief among these reasons although the cumbersome Bank's two stage
ICB process also added to the delays.
34.   Despite the delays, substantial progress has been made at the NCFC. There are
nearly 200 science and technology institutions connecting with NCFC including 123
institutes under CAS and several dozen institutes of state ministries and commissions.
The center currently has a CPU utilitization rate of 70 percent with parallel computing in
full operation. There are several scientific computer projects on going with support from
the NSFC.
35.   One of the side effects of the KDSP points to the possibility of the emergence of
indigenous parallel processing supercomputers which may serve regional needs in ways
which the NCFC is unlikely to do. The development of the "Dawn 1000" at the
University of Science and Technology of China in Hefei is a case in point. Reportedly,
the Dawn machine, designed using architecture similar to the NCFC mini supercomputer,
is being made available to scientists in Nanjing and Shanghai as well as to those in
Anhui, and a second generation version is now under development. The current one has a
peak speed of 2.5 Gflops and an actual parallel Linpack performance of 1.6 Gflops which
puts it in a range of performance only a factor of about 2 below that of the SGI Power
Challenge at NCFC or of the IBM S-2 at Tsinghua University.
36.   Users/Allocations Committees. A User's Committee of representatives from
nine different scientific disciplines was established in 1997. The committee has the
responsibility for formulating policies on the allocation and use of the supercomputer
resources, allocation of time, examining and approving users' applications for computing
on the supercomputer, monitoring the operation and services of the supercomputer and
organizing academic exchanges for users.
37.   Internet Connectivity. One the major successes of the KSDP was the substantial
increase of Internet access to China. The establishment of the Internet link in April 1994
was the first multi-institutional Internet link between the Beijing scientific community
and the international academic community. The early developmental problems of
establishing the internet link experienced by the NCFC has allowed for easier startup for
the number of links which have been established since that time. One and a half years
after the operation of the NCFC network, the MOE network (CERNET), a spin-off of the
NCFC with its center at Tsinghua University linking many universities all over China,
was put into operation. Users at Peking and Tsinghua Universities have transferred off
the CASNET which was set up by NCFC and now have moved to the CERNET thus
providing better service to both universities and institutes of the CAS.



38.   Based on NCFC, CSTnet (originally CASnet) has evolved to cover the provincial
capitals all over China. At present, CSTnet has a 4Mbps international channel with the
United States Internet and a 128 Kbps channel with Japan Internet. There are
approximately 500 access networks with 50,000 computers directly linked to the network
ancl approximately 100,000 enduers. CSTnet has interconnected with CERNet, ChinaNet
ancd GBNet. CSTNet has networked with over 300 research institutes which are spread
across 30 provinces or cities nationwide in various sectors. (i.e. the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation, and Ministry of Science and Technology)
Technical Assistance
39    Programme Advisory Group. The PAG, consisting of five senior Chinese
scientists and four scientists from abroad, was established in 1992 with support from
UNDP to provide continuing high quality consultation and advice to the MOE and CAS
on the overall direction and progress of implementation in the various components of the
K'SDP. It met at least once each year during the course of the project, and was supported
by a secretariat established in the MOE's Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO).
The PAG was expected to support the SDPC's role in providing guidance to the Project at
the policy level as well. During project implementation the PAG was especially attentive
to the SKLs, the PLMP, and to the NCFC; its agenda also came to include the promotion
of the use of TA, making suggestions about the repayment of the loan, technology
transfer issues, and helping to speed up China's connection to the Internet. It was active
in reviewing the annual indicators of progress for each lab and made site visits to most of
the labs during the course of the project. In addition, it made study tours to North
Amnerica and to Japan. These roles proved to be invaluable for the supervision of the
project. Bank missions used the PAG reports to augment its supervisions, sought advise
from PAG members and used the group to push project goals forward.
4CI.  The PAG played an important role in helping to integrate the diverse components
of the KSDP. However, as an advisory committee, it did not have the executive power
and organizational resources to push project implementation. Laboratories visited during
the final evaluation were often unclear about the PAG's existence. Stronger integration of
the program components would have added additional value to the overall KSDP. This is
especially true with regard to a stronger central role in coordinating solutions to
pr ocurement problems and the setting aside of monies for spare parts, and in wiser and
more imaginative uses of TA funds. Although it is not clear that PAG was equipped for
these roles, the absence of a stronger central coordinating body meant that the promise of
the KSDP as an integrated national program, as opposed to an equipment acquisition
effort, was not fully met.
41.   Domestic and International TA Programs. Domestic and international
technical assistance programs were designed to promote collaborative research with
foreign researchers. This included attendance at international meetings, inviting foreign
experts to China to give lectures and provide advice on research work, short overseas
visits to research laboratories and personnel training. Data received from both the MOE



- 12 -
and CAS show that the overall numerical targets were reached. However, the quality of
these programs could have been better if the foreign specialist program had organized
tours for the world renowned specialists to several universities or institutes so that they
could deliver several keynote lectures with broad integrative themes in science or
laboratory management.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
42.   Project Concept and Design. The basic concept of the project, of providing IDA
assistance to qualified labs to help bring them up to international standards, was sound. It
accorded with Chinese national policies and dovetailed with national programs to raise
the levels of Chinese advanced education and research. The attention given to the
creation of a national supercomputer center and to upgrading the quality of lab
management were also sensible objectives which addressed Chinese needs. The idea of
having an overall steering or advisory committee also was sound given the scope and
complexity of the project, as was the idea of adding value to the project by having a lab
management development component.
43.   Degree of Achievement of Project Objectives. The objectives of the project
were unevenly met. Achievements in graduate education and in research performance are
quite impressive and are consistent with the logic of the project design. Progress on the
development of a national computer center was initially slow, but, since 1996 large
progress has been made in connectivity and organizational structure of the NCFC.
44.  In the area of laboratory management the progress made appears to be a product
of the confluence of the project's initiation and changes in the overall economic and social
environment in China. The PLMP program was a useful part of this process of upgrading
laboratory management, but its potential contributions to the project as a whole were not
fully realized. More active central direction and leadership could have strengthened the
component. The PAG, while performing many important roles envisioned for it, could
not function as an executive body that could pull the diverse elements of the project
together.
45.   The Role of China International Center for Economic and Technical
Exchanges (CICET). CICET is, formally, the executing agency for the UNDP
supported components of the project. Although the ICR mission did not have meetings
with CICET, it was discussed with some of the participants of the KSDP who voiced
considerable dissatisfaction with the ways in which funds were dispersed by CICET,
especially with regard to the payment of consultants. Payments were slow and the
bureaucracy involved was tiresome and burdensome. Much of the technical assistance
portion of the project would not have been possible without the funding provided by the
UNDP. But the necessity of using CICET to administer the funding became an
impediment to using this technical assistance efficiently.



- 13 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
46.   Prospects for Project Sustainability. The strong likelihood of project
sustainability can be seen in a number of areas: (a) key to the success of the project from
the point of view of the Chinese government has been the accreditation process that the
labs have undergone in order to be targeted recipients of increased funding. This
accreditation process, that project-support labs passed, is now complete and the additional
funds are coming to the labs, from the NSFC, the Ministry of Science and Technology
and line ministries with specific research projects. The yh Five Year Plan targeted S&T
funding for the accredited SKLs and the current plans for the I O' Five Year Plan is
reportedly going to target even more funds for the nation's SKLs; (b) the number of
graduate students produced by the project-supported labs, approximately 8000 at the MSc
and Ph.D. levels, have been trained to world standards and many are placed in labs all
over China teaching new graduate students and carrying on research projects; (c) the
NCFC as a national model for computing and networking has spawned computer
networks in other major cities and is the heart of the MOE's own Chinese Education and
Research Network (CERN); (d) the NSFC continues to use panel and peer review for the
distribution of the large bulk of its research fumding. Although this constitutes only a
small percentage of the overall Chinese research funding, it does indicate that the process
used by the SDPC to support labs under the Key Studies Project was seen as a success by
the Chinese government; and (e) the new equipment brought a stronger fundamental
comnponent to the graduate curricula and the more specialized courses are not as narrowas
they were at the start of the project. This trend helps to avoid rapid obsolescence of the
graduate students trained under the previous more narrow approach.
47.   There are, a couple of issues which may impede sustainability. First, the meager
faculty salaries and graduate student stipends are a problem for the project's
sustainability. The prospects of working in well equipped laboratories and doing world
class science in China - made possible by the project - is a powerful attraction for young
scientists. However, the gap between income levels in the Chinese academic world and
other career opportunities (e.g., academic opportunities abroad, careers in business)
continues to widen drawing good graduate students away. Until this gap is narrowed
many of the post-doc students that go abroad for training will not return to Chinese
laboratories in large numbers. Second, although there are to be increases in government
support for basic research, the growing importance of contracted applied research and
development for the participating labs, and the pressures to transfer technology, could
distort primary mission of promoting advanced graduate training in basic science. The
long standing problem in China of relating research to production remains.
48.   Overall, the prospects for sustainability of the project is likely. The government
of 'China has made a strong financial commitment to SKLs and the "211" project will
provide resources to many of the SLs. The laboratories and universities have developed
special incentives to keep good Ph.D. graduates i.e. improved housing, larger research
budgets, accelerated promotions and good graduate students. The government has
identified science and education as the key to achieving economic development in the 21l'



- 14-
Century and is targeting university labs, including the SKLs, to play a key role in this
effort. These targets are being supported by a number of priority programs which have
brought increased funding in the 90 Five Year Plan and can be expected to continue in the
I Oth Five Year Plan.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
49.   Bank, UNDP, and Borrower Performance. The project was designed with
close cooperation between IDA and the Chinese Government. The Bank Group
mobilized a team of qualified experts to work with MOE and CAS so that the laboratories
could participate on a large scale. IDA supervision missions combined with the PAG
supervisions allowed each laboratory to be visited as many a two or three times. This
provided continuous monitoring of the implementation of the project. The Bank and
UNDP both conducted a joint mid-term review of the project in January 1994, using a
team of qualified scientists to review the progress of the graduate studies and research
projects in the laboratories. The final ICR mission was also a joint Bank-UNDP effort.
Financial assistance from UNDP made it possible to continue the support of the PAG
which proved to be a excellent mechanism to assist IDA monitoring implementation of
the project.
50.   One of the main problems with the project was that of procuring the desired
equipment in a timely fashion. This problem is a function of both the Association's
performance and that of the borrower. The employment of ICB procedures by the Bank
for a project of this kind was inappropriate, as noted in the mid-term review. The delays
which are a part of ICB procurement, plus the pressures to bundle contracts to achieve
economies of scale often mean that instrumentation is often not the latest model or is not
exactly what is needed because of the homogenization of technical specification. On the
other hand, Chinese procedures also created more difficulties than were necessary,
especially procedures which required middle-men as procurement agents who increased
the distance between end users and equipment vendors. Likewise, the MOE decided not
to use the modified ICB process proposed during project preparation.
51.   The Role of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The
UNDP was instrumental in providing the financial support necessary to support most of
the non-equipment value-added components of the project, (e.g., the PAG, the PLMP and
the TA components). During the project design period it was not possible to convince the
SPC, and subsequently the MOE and CAS to use of IDA funds for these value-added
portions of the project. Hence the support provided by the UNDP was critical in trying to
introduce new lab management methods, in supporting the PAG' s activities, and the
technical assistance to introduce new ideas into the Chinese scientific system.
Cooperation between the UNDP and the World Bank was close and productive,
especially during the mid-term review and ICR mission when the UNDP participated in
both exercises. The UJNDP's role in actual project implementation was minimal.
Evolving country program objectives and changes in personnel contributed to this



- 15 -
problem. A more active interest on the part of UNDP in its share of the project -
including improving procedures with CICET - would have been desirable.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
52.  In line with a good record in designing, preparing and implementing the IDA
assisted education projects, the Chinese team demonstrated satisfactory performance in
preparing and implementing this project. A problem with the project was the failure to
achieve a higher level of coordination and integration of its many parts. This problem
was a function of the lack of a strong executive project coordinating body in China. It
was expected that the SPC would perform this function when the project was initiated,
ultimately the SPC did not play this role. Instead, it ceded it to MOE which was
organizationally ill-equipped for this task. These arrangements kept the project from
achieving the kinds of benefits from synergistic interactions which were envisioned at the
outset of the project. Difficulties in managing a project with such complexity was
identified in the SAR as a risk. Assurances by the government at the time of project
preparation that strong project coordination would be provided proved to be more
difficult to carry out during the implementation stage.
G. ENVIRONMENT WITHIN WHICH PROJECT WAS APPRAISED AND APPROVED
53.   The project was successfully appraised on June 3, 1989, presented to the Board
fo:r approval on January 29, 1991, signed March 15, 1991 and made effective on June 4,
1991. The lengthy time between appraisal, signing and effectiveness was the result of
decisions taken within the Bank based on realities in China especially within the
academic community, and had an impact on the project in several ways. Equipment
necessary to support new research and graduate training programs was delayed for some
two to three years. Equipment lists drawn up during project preparation in 1988 were
three years old by the time procurement started and had to be modified causing delays.
Some laboratory research agendas had, inevitably, changed over the period and no longer
focused on the targets agreed at appraisal. Graduate enrollments in major universities
dipped substantially in the 1989, 1990 and 1991 academic years and this reportedly
affected the quality of the students taken into the project-supported labs. It is important
in the review of this project to factor in the full impact of these delays, and the reasons
which caused them, when reviewing project indicators, duration of project
implementation, dates of closing, and so on.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
54.   Project Outcomes. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. There are
increases in graduate students trained at high levels of quality, enhanced capacity for such
training in the future, and impressive research results emanating from the project.
Laboratory management has improved and more effective technology transfer strategies
are beginning. Overall, the project made a significant contribution to Chinese research



- 16 -
and advanced education capacities and to the modernization of thinking about research,
education, and laboratory management.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
55.   Experience derived from the design and preparation of Key Studies Development
Project had a direct impact on the Technology Development Project (Ln. 3847-CHA)
and, to a less degree, the Higher Education Reform Project (Ln. 4474/Cr. 3213-CHA).
The former used many of the targeting and review mechanisms used in the Key Studies
Project while the vast bulk of the universities supported in the latter project where also in
the Key Studies Project as well as one of the two earlier University Development
Projects. Future lending in the education sector is now being discussed with the
government and if such new lending develops the area of science and technology is a
possible area for further investment.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
56.   Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned in this project are that:
(a)   with appropriate resources and careful planning it is possible to accelerate
China's scientific and technological development by training its graduate
students at international levels of proficiency and in increased numbers;
(b)   it is difficult to transfer managerial experience acquired in other countries
to China;
(c)   the scarcity of equipment has made the community maximize the amount
of new equipment purchased, at the expense of acquiring adequate
supplies of spare parts and consumables for the proper operation of that
equipment. This occurred in spite of built-in assurances to the contrary;
(d)   the sharing of major facilities, such as the mini-supercomputer at NCFC or
the joint laboratories, among a large variety of research and teaching
institutions, is difficult due to the strong compartmentalized organizational
structure within the S&T community;
(e)   the dissemination of managerial know-how within and among laboratories
is slow and more efficient means should have been adopted from the very
beginning; and
(f)   the PAG might have adopted a more pro-active role, akin to that of a
managerial Principal Investigator (PI) for the Project.



- 17-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             x
Sector policies                                       X
Financial objectives                                   x
Institutional development               X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender issues                                          x
Olher social objectives                                                            x
Environmental objectives                                                           X
Public sector management                                                           x
Private sector development                                                         X
[, Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
Li                              ~~~~~~x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification 
P-reparation assistance 
-Appraisal                          __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-Saipervision                     I    _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                                        X
Inplementation                                                     x
C;ovenant compliance                                               x
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



- 18 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                           Purpose                                 Approval         Status
Preceding Operations
University Development Project- (LN. 2021-CHA To strengthen science & engineering in 28  1981    Completed 1986
Cr. 1167-CHA)                               leading Chinese Universities.
Agriculture Education and Research Project - (Cr. To assist agriculture higher education and  1982  Completed 1989
1297-CHA)                                   research in 11 agricultural colleges and 7
institutions.
Polytechnic/Television University Project - (Cr.   To increase the number of students and to  1983  Completed 1992
141 1-CHA)                                  improve the quality of instruction in China's
17 polytechnic institutions and 28 television
universities.
Rural Health Medical Education Project (Cr. 1472- The educational component of this project  1984  Completed 1991
CHA)                                        was designed to enhance the quality of
education, training & curriculum.
Second Agricultural Education Project (LN. 2444- To improve and assist agriculture education  1984  Completed 1992
ClLA)                                        in 23 agricultural colleges, 12 agricultural
technical schools.
Second University Development Project (Cr. 1551- To increase technical & managerial     1985     Completed 1992
CHA)                                        personnel through policy & institutional
changes related to the engineering and
economic/finance subsector.
Provincial University Project- (Cr. 1671-CHA)   To provide direct assistance to 60 provincial  1986  Completed 1992
university in 28 provinces and planning
assistance for the higher educationsubsector.
Gansu Provincial Development Project - (LN.  Part of comprehensive plan to attain universal   1987  Completed 1995
2812) Education Component (Cr. 1793-ClIA)    nine-year basic education and to improve the
quality of instruction in primary and lower
secondary schools in Gansu Province.
Teacher Training Project (Cr. 1908-CHA)     To support the Govemment's efforts to       1988     Completed 1993
achieve UBE by expanding and upgrading in-
service training of lower secondary school
teachers with an emphasis on improvement in
quality of teachers.
Textbook Development Project-(Cr. 2006-CHA)   To support the textbooks upgrading program  1989   Completed 1995
by the Chinese govemment. Objectives are
to improve the education quality of textbooks
at all levels of schooling, to increase the
variety of available textbooks and to improve
.__________________________________________   the  efficiency  of textbook  production.
Vocational & Technical Education Project (Cr.    To improve the quality of technical &  1990     Completed 1995
2114-CHA)                                   vocational training in China through
supporting 59 secondary vocational/technical
schools in 10 provinces and 3 municipalities
Medium-Sized Cities Development Project (LN.   To assist Changzhou, Luoyang and Shashi  1991     Completed 1997
3286-CHA)                                   cities to improve overall sector planning and
l___________________________________________ - management including education.



- 19 -
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                         Purpose                               Approval        Status
Following Operations:
'Education Development in Poor Provinces (Cr.   To support three main goals for the  1992   To be completed
2339-CHA)                                 development of education in relatively poor             1998
provinces-Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hubei, Hunan,
Guizhou and Yunnan.
Effective Teaching Services Project (Cr. 2471-    To contribute to improved leaming at the  1993  To be completed
CHA)                                      lower middle level by providing teaching                1998
services, including instructional
methodology, teacher training and
management of teachers training and
assignment.
Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas (Cr.  To support the attainment of universal  1994  To be completed
2651-CHA)                                 primary education and expansion of coverage            2000
of lower secondary education in poor and
minority areas in 6 provinces: Xinjiang,
Sichuan, Inner Mongolia,Ningxia, Guangxi,
and Jiangxi.
Third Basic Education Project (Cr. 2831 -CHA)    To support the attainment of universal  1995  To be completed
primary education and expansion of coverage            2001
of lower secondary education in poor and
minority areas in seven provinces: Anhui,
Fujian, Gansu, Hebei, Henan, Jilin and
Qinghai
Vocational Education Reform Project (Cr.  To improve and increase the supply of skilled   1996  To be completed
2063/LN. 2898-CHA                         labor, raise the quality and efficiency of the         2002
VTE system and build up capacity for
monitoring and evaluation in four high
growth provinces andTianjin municipality.
Fourth Basic Education Project (Cr. 2954-CHA)   To increase access/equity for the absolute  1997  To be completed
poor in primary and junior secondary                   2002
education; to enhance the quality of primary
and junior secondary schooling, as well as
teacher training education and training
programs; to improve efficiency in the
delivery of education through improving
educational management at all levels
Southwest Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 3906-  The education component of the project will    1995  To be completed
CHA)                                      address low educational attainment among                2001
those in project areas by enhancing the
delivery of primary education to the poor
through primary school renovation and
construction, tuition assistance and
nutritional supplements for poor students,
provision of textbooks, instructional
equipment and fumiture and teacher and
management training.
Higher Education Reform Project Ln. 4474-CHA  The objective is to improve the quality and  1999  To be completed
Cr. 3213-CHA)                             relevance of undergraduate basic science and           2005
engineering programs through integrated
reform activities in curriculum and teaching
methodology.



- 20 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                   Date planned               Date actual
Identification                                               12/88                     12/88
Preappraisal                                                  5/89                     6/3/89
Appraisal                                                   9/07/89                   9/07/89
Negotiations                                                4/16/90                   4/09/90
Board presentation                                          2/20/90                   2/26/91
Signing                                                                               3/15/91
Effectiveness                                                                          6/4/91
Project completion                                          12/31/95                  6/30/98
Loan closing                                                6/30/96                   12/31/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95          FY96     FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate   10.0    65.0    121.2    129.2    131.2    131.25    131.2    131.2    131.2
Actual                0.0    10.5      35.9      81.3    107.1      119.2    128.2    131.9    132.86
Actual as%of          0.0    16.1      29.6      62.9      81.6      90.8     97.7    100.5    101.2
adjusted estimate
Date of final disbursement           4/12/99
5    Project was extended for the first time during FY97
6    Difference in Appraisal disbursements and actual disbursements is due to change in US dollar value
of SDR.



- 21 -
TABLE 5: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Estimated                     Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR        Base Line-I Base Line-2        Target      Actuals
1988        1992            1966       11/97
GRADUATE STUDENT ENROLLMENTS
Enrollment-MSC                                3197        3635             5659        4961
Enrollment-Ph.D.                              788         1361             1886        3081
Enrollment-Post Doc                            49          169             250         346
SUPPORT OF SCIENTIFC RESEARCH
Numbers of Researchers in Laboratory          2818        3717             7510        3708
Availability of Research Funds
per lab average annual fanding (RMB Million)  0.65      0.9              1.0         2.1
DEVELOP SCIENTIFIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Percentage of Lab Equipment Purchased & Installed  3.17   15.7             100        96.7
INTERNATIONALIZATION OF SCIENCE
Overseas Studies/Research & Intemational
Conference
Total for Laboratory                        327        1649                         4785
Total Supported by Project                  11          306           780+1386      2016
Foreign Specialists Visiting Labs:
Total forLaboratory                         330        1697                         5079
Total Supported by Project                   2          82              305         573
GRADUATE STUDENT ENROLLMENTS
ShiftinRatioofM.Sc.toPh.D.Degrees              5.4         3.7             <3.1        2.3
Percentage of Female Graduates to Total
-M.Sc. Program                             17.8        20.5              <22       23.8
-Ph.D. Program                              7.0          9.4            <22        14.9
-Post Doc. Program                          0.09         2.7                        8.1
SUPPORT OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
Research Publications
-Domestic Publications                     27           89              40          236
-Intemational Publications                  5           20               10          53
-International Conferences                  5           19               12          53
BUILDING LABORATORY MANAGEMENT
Establishment of Lab Academic Committee                                   137/142= 96%
Open Laboratory                                                           130/142= 92%
Percentage of Labs using Peer Review                                      115/121= 95%
DEVELOP SCIENTIFIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Accreditation of Laboratory                                            100/142= 70%
NOTE: In the original project documentation there are no development indicators. The list presented above
was the result of efforts made by the Association and the Ministry of Education in 1994 to produce
development indicators. The two different baseline data figures are for the pre-appraisal year of 1988 and the
post signing date of 1992.



- 22 -
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Item                               Local  Foreign    Total          Local Foreign     Total
Laboratory Component                427.0  555.6    982.6          452.9  630.2   1,083.1
Pilot Laboratory
Management Program                  0.3    4.3      4.5            0.0    2.2        2.2
National Computer and Network
Facility                            5.3   22.4     27.8           12.8   21.6       34.4
Program Advisory Mechanism            0.1    3.3      3.4            0.0    2.8        2.8
Total Base Cost                     432.7  585.6  1,018.3          465.7  656.8   1,122.5
Physical Contingencies               35.5   48.0      83.5
Price Contingencies                  83.5   59.5    143.0
Total Project Costs                 551.7  693.1  1,244.8
TABLE 6B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Item                               Local  Foreign    Total          Local Foreign     Total
Laboratory Component                 81.8  106.4    188.2          86.8   120.7    207.5
Pilot Laboratory Management
Program                             0.1    0.8       0.9          0.0      0.4       0.4
National Computer and Network
Facility                            1.0    4.3       5.3          2.5      4.1       6.6
Program Advisory Mechanism            0.0    0.6       0.6          0.0      0.5       0.5
Total Base Cost                      82.9  112.2    195.1          89.3   125.7    215.0
Physical Contingencies                6.8    9.2      16.0
Price Contingencies                  16.0   11.4     27.4
Total Project Cost                  105.7  132.8    238.5



- 23 -
TABLE 6c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate                       Actual/late estimate
Source          |Government I IDA | UNDP   Total               Government   IDA       UNDP   Total
Civil Works                   21.7          0.0      0.0     21.7           29.8          0.0      0.0     29.8
Equipment                     42.8       115.9       0.2    158.9            57.0      120.7       0.0    177.7
Books & Educational             1.8        2.8       0.0      4.6
M[aterials                                                                   0.1         1.2      0.0       1.3
Trmining and Specialist         5.8       11.8       1.4     19.0
Services                                                                     0.5        10.5      0.5     11.5
Graduate Education and
Laboratory Operations       33.7         0.7      0.0      34.4             9.0         0.0      0.4      9.4
Total Project Costs          105.8       131.2       1.6   238.6             96.4      132.4       0.9   229.7
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original    Revised
Agreement    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
type    Status     date        date          Description of covenant    Comments
3.0.1 .b       09        C      06/30/93               Adhere to the Implementation    Complied with
Program as in Schedule 4 of     01/04/94
Credit Agreement: (a) conduct
mid-term review
3.0l.b         10        C      06/01/91               (b)- Maintain FILO in SEdC and  Complied with
OEC in CAS
3.0l.b        03,10      C      06/01/91               (c)- monitor availability of funds    Complied with
to SKL's and SL's
3.0l.b       03, 10      C                             (d)- identify causes of shortages of   Complied
funds and if happening address
causes
3.03          12,10      C      08/01/91               Establish and Maintain Program  PAG duties have
Advisoiy Group (PAG)            been completed
with submission
of final report to
CAS and MOE
4.01.b (ii)    01        C      08/31/92               Fumish IDA certified Audit      Last Audit report
Report                          was for FY 97
and was received
08/25/98
4.01.c (iv)    09        C      08/31/92               Furnish IDA with opinion on     Complied with
Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
4.02           09        C      06/01/91               Monitor and evaluate project    Complied with
progress according to IDA
accepted indicators and targets.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP    complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation.
project or executing agency   12= Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 24 -
TABLE 8: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY            1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   Total
Preappraisal    4.8   46.7  160.6                                                                           212.1
Appraisal                          124.4                                                                    124.4
Negotiations                               24.2                                                              24.2
Supervision                                18.9   24.1   55.9   31.7   30.3   23.7   44.6    5.4   25.3  259.9
Completion                                                                             35.4                  35.4
Total        48   46.7  60       24.4 18.9   24.1   55.9   31.7   30.3   23.7   80.0    5.4   25.3  631.8



- 25 -
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
______________________   ________  __________   _______  Specialized  staff  Imple-         Devel-
Stage of project cycle       Month/   Number of   Days   skills represented    mentation       opment        Type of
year      persons    in field       /a           status /b      objectives    problems /c
Preidentification
Identification/Preparation    12/88        5          15       ED, 4 Cons.        NR             NR
Preappraisal                  6/89         7          20     ED,OA,5 Cons.        NR             NR
Appraisal                     9/89         5          16     ED, OA 3 Cons.       NR             NR
Negotiation                   4/90         4          0     ED, Eco.,Leg.DO       NR             NR
Posltappraisal             .         .
Postappraisal              .         .
Board approval                2/91                    0                                                     1 yr. board
delay of
project
Sigiing                       3/91                    0                           NR             NR
Effective                     4/91                    0                           NR             NR
Supervision I/Initial         4/91         1          7            ED             NR             NR
Supervision 2                 5/91         2          16         ED,TE              1             1
Supervision 3                 10/91        1          14           ED              2              1
Supervision 4                 9/92         1          14           ED               I             I
Supervision 5                 7/93         2          14         ED,ED              1             1
Supervision 6                 10/94        2          21         ED,OA             S              S
Supervision 7                 7/95         2          10         ED,OA             S              S
Supervision 8                 3/96         2          14         ED,OA             S             HS
Supervision 9                 2/97         1          2            ED              s              s
,Completion 10                 7/97         4          27     ED,OA,DO,OO           S              s
Supervision 11                1/99         2          2          ED,OA             S             HS
/a DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer;
RA: Research Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.






-27 -                         ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PREFACE
1.    Due to the cooperation among the departments related and the united efforts made
by the project institutions, the project has realized its planned objectives and
accomplished the missions with striking success. The borrower has no objections to the
project description and comment made by the Bank. For the project impact and project
sustainability the borrower will account as follows.
PROJECT IMPACT
Laboratory Establishment and Development
2.    With different groundwork and investment scale, SKLs had been intended to set
up in line with the national accreditation criteria and SLs had been built with reference to
SKL criteria. During the project implementation, operational mechanisms as "opening,
association, mobilization and competition" have been put into practice, and meanwhile, a
set of bylaws and regulations have been established and perfected. For increasing the
management and operation efficiency, experience for pilot programs of laboratory
management has been summarized and disseminated. Academic committees and
laboratory management committees with scientific research authorities and pundits have
been set up. Up to now, all the project SKLs have passed the State Key Laboratory
accreditation and obtained the stable funding sources for operation. Thus the capability
for getting national project has been strengthened, and the academic paper quality and
quantity have been considerably improved. Meanwhile, the scientific research has
boosted the teaching development. Specialized Laboratories have also developed in
respects of the scientific research and teaching. The Bank-funded NCFC has set up the
basic structure for Chinese science and technology going onto the international leading-
edge track and provided the economic and efficient tool for international communications
and resource sharing.
Staff Development
3.    Since the beginning of the project implementation, the basic infrastructure of the
laboratories has been improved owing to the newly procured equipment and established
management system, thus attracting and stabilizing a number of outstanding teaching and
research staff. With years of efforts made, a first rank, steady-going teaching and
research contingent has been developed with the well-known pundits as the head, middle-
aged staff as the mainstay and young scientists as the principal part. These staff come
from different scientific fields with optimized knowledge structure, reasonable age



- 28 -                         ANNEX A
distribution, competence for shouldering high-level project and powerful potentiality for
development. The project institutions have placed significant emphasis on nurturing
young academic leaders, providing necessary conditions and opportunities for turning
them into creative, active and adaptive teaching and research leaders. For ensuring the
regular operation of the laboratories and equipment operational efficiency, all the project
laboratories have brought up a group of independent and stable technical management
staff.
Disciplinary Development
4.    The improvement of the laboratory conditions has greatly boosted the
development of the scientific disciplines. Project laboratories use the newly procured
equipment to develop new experiment courses, further strengthening the student
adaptability for the scientific development. The opening of the laboratories attract
experts and scholars with different academic background to engage in collaborative
research and exchange leading to the overlapping and inter-inclusion of the scientific
disciplines. In that case, the research has brought along the development of the teaching
and the disciplines have become, as designed and expected, the basis both for teaching
and for scientific research.
Scientific Research
5.    With the implementation of the project, project laboratories have obtained much
competitive capability for getting national key projects of basic science and applied
science. For the past several years, funding sources for these laboratories mainly come
from various state funding projects and local cooperative projects. These projects have
provided laboratories with research opportunities and necessary funds, enhanced the
development of the teaching and scientific research, strengthened the connection with
industrial enterprises, pushed the scientific research achievements into application, and
obtained satisfactory social benefits and economic returns. Cooperation with domestic
and foreign enterprises in different approaches as collaborative research and
development, technology transferring and cooperative production, has increased the
pertinence and relevance of the scientific research.
Postgraduate Training
6.    The leading researchers with high professional skills and profound academic
attainment and the advanced research facilities attract more and more applicants for
postgraduate education. Therefore, postgraduate enrollment, with the level of
postgraduate training improved, and has been keeping a steady growth with striking
increases of Ph.D enrollment.
Domestic and International Academic Exchanges



- 29 -                        ANNEX A
7.    The implementation of the technical assistance activities provided project
institutions with more opportunities for international conference, study tours and
fellowship, allowing project institutions to be well informed of the latest academic
development and trends. Project laboratories have set great store by the regular academic
activities. Besides usual thesis selection, public answering for postgraduate dissertation
and. research subject identification, distinguished experts and scholars have often been
invited for lectures and extensive collaborative research activities have been engaged,
with academic ideology activated, academic vision expanded, new technology and ideas
informed and project laboratories influence spread.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
8.    Recently, the Chinese government has devoted much attention to the reforms and
development of higher education. From 1995, the "Project 211 " was launched for
strengthening 100 higher educational institutions and disciplines. In 1998, the State
Council set up a Science-Technology Leading Group with decision-makers from related
ministries as the members and the premier as the head, bringing forward the "Action Plan
of Educational Revival for the 21lt Century". The government has also increased
investment in education, allocating a one percent increase for education from central the
budget, that is, from 5.2 percent in 1997 to 8 percent in 2000. At the same time,
provincial financing is encouraged to increase the allocation for education. The
government awareness and input increase for education afford guarantee of the project
sustainability. For this, the project sustainability plan and related measures have been
made as follows:
(a)   Establishing the relevant follow-up management organizations, keeping
project laboratories in constant contact and making regular exchanges
among project laboratories. Drawing upon the experience and lessons of
the laboratory management to consummate the established laboratory
management system and mechanism in order to adapt to the modem
science and technological development;
(b)   Expanding the opening of the laboratories and improving the connection
and exchanges among the research staff, trying to catalyzing the
operational efficiency of the existing equipment and pushing equipment
utilization rate with annual increasing rate by 5 percent;
(c)   Increasing the number of the staff for training and conference attendance
abroad with annual increasing rate by 5 percent to 10 percent;
(d)   Setting down relevant preferential policies to increase the female
postgraduate enrollment;
(e)   Taking specific measures to encourage academic paper publications on
domestic and international journals and using awarding mechanisms to
push quality paper and treatise publications;



- 30 -                         ANNEX A
(f)   Increasing the number of laboratory staff for domestic and foreign training
to improve the academic level and professional competence of the
laboratory staff;
(g)   Enhancing the funding management for ensuring the laboratory
operational funding requirements; listing laboratory operation expenditure
in the institutional annual budget plan as special funds; and
(h)   Strengthening the partnerships between project laboratories and industrial
enterprises; making use of laboratory preponderance to develop social
services and to explore the funding channels.



-31-                          ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr.2110-CHA)
Aide-Memoire
May 30-June 26,1997
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Mr. Halsey Beemer (mission leader), Ms.
Sandra Erb (Operations Analyst, Consultant) and Aron Kuppermann (Senior Scientist,
Consultant) and visited Shanghai, Nanjing, Hefei, Harbin, Shenyang and Beijing June 3-
26, 1997 to review progress on the implementation of the Key Studies Development
Project (KDSP). The mission was augmented by a member of the Programme Advisory
Group (PAG), Mr. Stewart McIntyre, and by a project evaluation mission from the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) which consisted of Masatsugu Kimura,
Programme Officer, UNDP/Beijing, Liu Shenggang (Senior Scientist, Consultant), Ma
Weixiang, (Senior Scientist, Consultant), Richard Suttmeier (Senior Policy Specialist,
Consultant) and an Environmental Studies Team supported by UNDP and led by Jarad
Cohon (Senior Scientist, Consultant). While in Shanghai the joint World Bank/UNDP
team took part in the project-supported Technology Transfer Workshop at Fudan
University. Mr. Hu Wenbin (Education Specialist) and Ms. Yang Xiaohong,
(Disbursement Specialist) both of the Resident Mission Beijing participated in various
Beijing mission meetings. The mission expresses its appreciation to the State Education
Commission (SEdC), the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), and the National Natural
Sciences Foundation of China (NSFC) as well as educational and scientific authorities in
Shanghai, and Beijing municipalities and Jiangsu, Anhui, Heilongjiang, Liaoning
Provinces for the arrangements made and the hospitality extended the mission. Unless
otherwise indicated in the follow-up letter from the World Bank to the government, the
agreements recorded in the Aide-Memoire are final with the signature of the Task
Manager.
2.    The task manager would also like to recognize and thank the UNDP for its
continuing involvement in the project and their substantial support of the final project
evaluation. The UJNDP's funding of the technical assistance (TA) portion of the project
allowed for considerable value added to project components which had impact on all
project laboratories.
3.    Attached to this aide-memoire is the "World Bank/UNDP Mission Report". (See
project files.) This "Mission Report" provides additional details, explanations and



- 32 -                        ANNEX B
discussion to points made in the aide-memoire and therefore paragraph numbers are
provided to refer the reader to the specific expanded sections in the mission report.
I.    Summary.
4.    Project Outcomes. All parties associated with the project can take considerable
pride in its achievements. The most important of these are the increases in graduate
students trained at high levels of quality, the enhanced capacity for such training in the
future, and the impressive research results which emanated from the project. At a second
order of significance, the improvement of laboratory management and the beginnings of
more effective technology transfer strategies can be celebrated. Additionally, the
project's support of the peer review process for distribution of scientific funding
reinforced the governments policies of making such decisions based on the quality of labs
and scientific personnel rather than by administrative decision. Overall, the project made
a significant contribution to Chinese research and advanced education capacities and to
the modernization of thinking about research, education, and laboratory management.
(see Annex 1 for overall Project Development Indicators.)
5.    Project Concept and Design. The basic concept of the project, of providing IDA
assistance to qualified labs in order to help bring them up to international standards, was
sound. It accorded with Chinese national policies and dovetailed with national programs
to raise the levels of Chinese advanced education and research. The attention given to the
creation of a national supercomputer center and to upgrading the quality of lab
management were also sensible objectives which addressed Chinese needs. The idea of
having an overall steering or advisory committee also was sound given the scope and
complexity of the project, as was the idea of adding value to the project by having a lab
management development component. The addition of technology transfer objectives to
the project complicated the project design, but on balance was a useful addition.
6.    Degree of Achievement of Project Objectives. As the discussion which follows
indicates, the objectives of the project were met unevenly. Achievements in graduate
education and in research performance as a result of the project are quite impressive and
are consistent with the logic of the project design. Progress on the development of a
national computer center has been disappointing to all involved. The Chinese side was
slow in operationalizing their objectives for the center, specifying the type of equipment
they wanted, and in organizing users in order to develop sensible policies for the center's
utilization.
7.   In the area of laboratory management, the considerable progress that has been
made appears to be the result of both the project's initiation and changes in the overall
economic and social environment in China which were supportive of managerial
improvements. The PLMP program was a useful part of this process of upgrading
laboratory management, but its potential contributions to the project as a whole were not
as fully realized as they might have been had there been more active central direction and



- 33 -                        ANNEX B
leadership. The PAG, while performing many important roles envisioned for it, could not
function as an executive body that could pull the diverse elements of the project together.
8.    Opportunities Missed. It seems clear to the mission that the project could have
achieved even more if there had been an entity which could have played the role of Chief
Scientist or Principal Investigator (PI). Missing from much of the project was the overall
coordination of those components which would have genuinely contributed to the
comrnon needs of the Chinese scientific community. Such elements as an integrated
technical assistance program, a widely disseminated set of improved laboratory
management practices, or a national computing and network facility which served the
scientific communities of both the State Education Commission (SEdC) and Chinese
Academy of Sciences (CAS) labs. The SEdC and CAS implementation units were more
focused on individual lab equipment procurement issues than overall programmatic
strengthening. The Programme Advisory Group (PAG) and the National Natural
Sciences Foundation of China (NSFC) lacked the authority and mandate to play such a
role and the State Planning Commission (SPC), who initiated the project, turned over
implementation to the SEdC and CAS at an early stage. All this contributed to what the
mission considers to be opportunities missed for the project as a whole.
1I. Implementation Issues
9.    Project Extension. During meetings with the CAS and SEdC, as well as during
the site visits, it has been reported that upwards of US$ 800,000 of ordered and
contracted for scientific and computational instrumentation (evenly divided between the
CAS and SEdC) would not arrive in China until after the project closes June 30, 1997.
Over 80 percent of the equipment in question is spare parts and auxiliary equipment
specifically ordered by lab directors in order to carry out research programs underway or
envisioned in the near future. The CAS has requested that the project be extend in order
to be able to take delivery of this equipment and have its costs covered by project funds.
SEdC is willing to forgo the delivery of the US$ 400,000 of equipment and has not asked
for an extension.
10.   The mission strongly recommends that the SEdC reconsider their position and
join with the CAS in requesting the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in making a request for
an extension in order to allow for the full and complete delivery of project supplied
equipment
11.   Statement of Expenses (SOE) Review. Statement of Expenses (SOEs) for the
project were reviewed and the found that the procedures followed by the SEdC were
con-ect and in good order. Documentation has been maintained in good order, supporting
documentation is adequate and expediters were found to be eligible for Bank
disbursement. However, the mission was unable to cross check data gather from site
visits with supporting documentation in SEdC files and therefore the mission was not
able to carry out its planned full sample review. The mission is concerned that the SEdC
Finance Department may well be understaffed with seven staff for seven full Bank



- 34 -                        ANNEX B
projects. The over-stretched, because of the heavy work load in the Beijing, are not able
to upgrade their own computer skills or make site visits to project universities to review
the procedures being used at the university level. The review also found that
communications between FILO divisions needs to be improved. For instance, it is
reported that the TA Division is unaware of total level of project expenditure in this
category which must make it difficult for the TA Division to adequately develop its
annual program. FILO management might well consider increasing the training given to
the Financial Division and seeks ways to increase useful communications between
different divisions in FILO.
12.  Implementation Completion Review (ICR) Process. The mission asks the
SEdC and the CAS to complete its portion of the ICR report with special attention to the
development of an operation plan for the next stages of the project-supported State Key
Laboratories (SKLs) and Special laboratories (SLs) and the National Computing and
Network Center (NCFC). Now that the investment phase of the project is complete, both
SEdC and CAS should adopt an operational plan which will ensure that investments will
be sustained. As outlined in the Bank's guidelines on ICR preparation, the operation plan
should include indicators to monitor both performance and development impact. This
operational plan should be sent to the Bank along with the Part Two of the ICR report and
should arrive at the Bank by September 1, 1997.
III.  Mission Findings
13.  Impact of the Project on Graduate Training - Trends in Graduate
Enrollment. One of the most important objectives of the project was to enhance the
training of graduate and post-graduate students in science and technology in selected
laboratories, to the highest international levels. The trends in graduate enrollments at the
State Key Laboratories (SKLs) and Special Laboratories (SLs) have been very positive.
The overall project indicators for MSc, Ph.D. and post doc degrees have been exceed.(see
attached indicators for overall achievement). However, the mission believes that even
more students can be trained with the additional modern research equipment. What
seems to be impeding the attainment of these higher goals are the strict quotas for
graduate students imposed on the laboratories by State Education Commission (SEdC)
and the excessively severe entrance examinations for MSc candidates which screened out
well qualified students.
14.   Another goal of the project was to decrease the ratio of MSc to Ph.D. enrollments.
The indicators from early 1997 numbers shows that the MSc to Ph.D. enrollments have
decreased from 2.67:1 in 1992 to 1.61:1 in 1996. The mission viewed this as a positive
change, since Ph.D. students are normally trained to the state-of-the-art in their respective
fields and MSc students are not.
15.   The mission learned that the SEdC recently approved a policy of direct enrollment
of some graduate students in Ph.D. programs, without requiring them to first obtain MSc
degrees. The mission feels that this is a positive step, but the fraction of the total number



- 35 -                        ANNEX B
of Ph.D. students admitted into such programs is relatively small, of the order of 10
percent or less. It would be desirable to increase this fraction to 15 percent or 20 percent
and to extend it to all project laboratories.
16.   The post-doc program is still quite small with only about three post-doc fellows
per lab on average. Post-docs are a very important component in modem science and
technology research activities, and their numbers should be substantially increased in the
future.
17.   Women Students. Overall figures show modest increases in graduate training for
women. MSc degrees increased from approximately 21 percent to 26 percent, Ph.D.
degrees 7 percent to 14 percent and post doc fellows from 0 to 4 percent. The reasons for
the srnall representation of women at all levels are manifold. Efforts need to be made to
increase the numbers of women as full participants in the science and technology
mainstream of the workplace as well as to increase women's prominence in science and
technology. In order to achieve this goal it is recommended that a special scholarship
program be designed to attract women to careers in science and technology at the highest
levels. It is important to increase in this way the pool of highly trained personnel needed
for the country's development.
18.  Impact on Curriculum Development. The project has had a positive influence
on the curricula at the project laboratories. As the research performed in these
laboratories became more modem and used more sophisticated equipment, the nature of
the curriculum became broader. New courses were introduced as a result of the
acquisition and capabilities of some of the new equipment. The net effect of all of these
changes is that graduate curricula currently have a stronger fundamental component than
earlier, and the more specialized courses are not as narrow as they once were. This trend
is very positive, since it helps avoid rapid obsolescence of the graduate students trained
under this new approach.
19.   Student Access to Project Supplied Equipment. An additional important
improvement in the training of the graduate students has been their hands-on utilization
of the new scientific equipment. The higher quality and reliability of such equipment and
its computerized operation and output permits their efficient use by larger numbers of
students without requiring very detailed training in their operation. For the continued
health of the laboratories and of the quality of the graduate training they provide, it is
vitally important that this equipment be well maintained and periodically updated so that
a state-of-the-art operation can be sustained.
20.   Impact of Project on Research -- Research Results of Project Laboratories.
In some labs, there is no doubt that the equipment acquired in the project has made
possible research results which are up to or surpass world standards. In many others, the
quality and quantity of research have both improved notably. New equipment has
enabled China to enter new fields of inquiry and to reconceptualize problems in
innovative ways as a result of the gains in measurement and computation. The benefits



- 36 -                         ANNEX B
are in both fundamental science and in areas of potential and actual applications. An
important measure of the adequacy of this research is the number of papers published in
peer-reviewed domestic and international journals and, as the indicators show, these
numbers have increased substantially.
21.   The most important component of the training of graduate students in modern
science and technology is the original research they perform for their graduate degree
theses, under the orientation of qualified research advisers. The equipment acquired by
the laboratories with the funds supplied by the project has been instrumental in permitting
such research to be conducted at an improved level of quality and quantity
22.   Research Funding. Being participants in the KSDP, and having the status and
material benefits which came with participation, have clearly enhanced the prospects of
the labs in the competition for future funding. These benefits, though, vary considerably
from lab to lab depending on the field or discipline, the quality of the work, and the
quality of laboratory leadership. The opportunities for research funding in China at the
end of the project usually come from three types of sources: (a) first is the "vertical"
dimension which includes various sources of funds from the central government;
(b) second are "horizontal" sources which includes projects from other ministries,
contract research, the sale of technology and products from the labs and from local
governments. These sources have been increasing over time and now constitute an
increasing portion of the research funding. Although such activities may be beneficial in
the short run, they can jeopardize the long range soundness of the laboratory and the
quality of the training of its students. Great care must be taken not to allow the
laboratories to become excessively dependent on this type of funding; and (c) third are
source of funds that come from the international environment.
23.   The available research funds increased by a factor of 1.74 over the five year
period 1992 through 1996, growing from a laboratory average of 1.21 million RMB for
1992 to 2.1 million RMB for 1996. This is more than double the SAR target for 1996 of
1.0 million RMB. Despite the increases for research funding in the KSDP labs, the
national expenditures for R&D increased only slightly, in real terms after correction for
the relatively large scientific inflation rate. As privileged institutions, it is likely that
SKLs and SLs did better than average in staying even with this inflation.
24.   China's research policy in recent years has sought to incorporate meritocratic
criteria, usually applied through peer review, in its funding decisions. The mission
applauds this trend and encourages its further extension. As represented by the SKL
program itself, this has led to a hierarchical ranking of research centers (and projects)
with different amounts of resources flowing to different levels in the hierarchy.
Accordingly, Chinese laboratories have become very conscious of their rankings and very
concerned about maintaining or improving them. The accreditation process plays a key
role in this process.



- 37 -                        ANNEX B
25.   Accreditation. An important element in the future life of the SKLs is the
prospect of an accreditation conducted by the NSFC on behalf of the State Planning
Commission (SPC) (which considers the overall value of the labs to society) and the State
Science and Technology Commission (SSTC) (whose primary interest is in operational
capabilities to conduct research). This accreditation process follows the earlier review of
the Key Studies Development Project (KSDP) labs which determined that they had met
the criteria for initial designation as SKLs. Once accepted as a SKL, a laboratory is then
eligible to be considered for accreditation. The first round of accreditation review, which
was focused on the 80 SKLs which were not part of the KSDP, has now been completed.
The practices used for it will, in the main, be replicated for the 75 SKLs in the KSDP.
26.   The situation for the SLs is different. These will not be reviewed using the SKL
procedures described above. Instead, they will be subject to review as "open labs" by the
SEdC. The SLs will be eligible for "211" funding, but this decision will be made by
corresponding university authorities.
27.   Impact of Project on Laboratory Management - Pilot Laboratory
Management Program (PLMP). Improvement of laboratory management was an
explicit goal of the project. (See paragraph 26 of Mission Report for detailed PLMP
objectives). Although improvements in the PLMP labs are visible, the overall impact of
the PILMP program is harder to see outside of the seven labs chosen for participation in
PLMP.
28.   While it is clear that considerable efforts were made in the 1991-95 period to
make the project a success and to propagate the lessons learned, the mission was struck in
its site visits by the consistency with which labs responded to questions about PLMP with
puzzLed silence. Possible explanations for the curious disconnection between the efforts
expended by those involved with PLMP and responses to PLMP-related questions during
site visits are further discussed in paragraph 30 of the Mission Report and are briefly
restated here:
(a)   the NSFC had limited resources to expend on follow-up activities;
(b)   the special resources going to the seven PLMP labs for managerial
improvements were not available to the KSDP participants; and
(c)   there were a good number of changes in lab leadership during the course
of the project.
29.   Perhaps the biggest factor now operating among the KSDP labs for improved
managerial effectiveness is the review and accreditation processes being carried out by
the NqSFC on behalf of the SPC and the SSTC. Management practices are one criterion in
these, but more generally, overall lab performance - in a sense, the sum of management
practices - is being tested by authoritative outsiders wielding significant rewards and
punishments. Assuming that the integrity of this evaluation system can be maintained
and protected from politicking and the influence of personal relationships, lab
management should continue to improve. The mission recommends that the experiences



- 38 -                        ANNEX B
of the PLMP labs be incorporated into a manual for laboratory management to be widely
disseminated.
30.   Technology Transfer - Shanghai Exhibition. In the SAR, the importance of
technology transfer to the success of the KSDP was not emphasized. However, the
direction of China's policies for S&T in the 1 990s, and the rapid development and
growing technological complexity of China's industrial economy combined to insert the
issue of technology transfer as a far more central role than had been envisaged.
Accordingly, the importance of technology transfer issues was considered in the PLMP
activities and the PAG suggested that an exhibition be held at the end of the KSDP where
many of the participating labs could promote their research results, inventions, and
capabilities to industry. At the same time, a seminar was proposed wherein the present-
day understandings of technology transfer processes could be discussed by Chinese and
foreign experts.
31.   The exhibition was held in Shanghai at Fudan University from June 5-13, 1997,
with over 90 KSDP labs represented and over 1000 invitations issued to representatives
of industry. During the period, over 800 industrial visitors attended over the period. (See
Mission Report paragraph 38 for details of some immediate results of the exhibition.)
32.   The inclusion of technology transfer concerns in the KSDP is an understandable
and, in principle, useful element of the project. The mission did, however, have two
concerns about this addition. The first is that much of the discussion of technology
transfer seems to address only one part of what is the real objective of technology
transfer, viz., technological innovations in the economy and in the delivery of "public
goods" (e.g., environmental protection). A large literature and much experience suggests
that views of innovation which see technology transfer as being primarily a "supply
driven," "linear" process from research to production are quite inadequate. The second
concern follows from the first, and has to do with the suitability of academic
organizations as the primary agents for supplying technology. The mission therefore
recommends that the promotion of technology transfer objectives among the participants
in the KSDP be done with care, with due attention to current models of innovation and
with due consideration for the special strengths, and "comparative advantage," of the
laboratories.
33.   The overall record of technology transfers from the participating laboratories is
modest. This should not be surprising. The KSDP labs include a mixture of those whose
primary mission is basic research and those with more applied programs. In both cases,
the primary objectives of the project were related to graduate education and research.
While technology transfer can - and perhaps should - play a role in these activities, fully
developed attention to technology transfer would have involved a significantly different
project design, one which should have made innovation the focus of attention.
34.   National Computing and Network Facility (NCFC) -- Networking/Internet.
The rapid growth of computer networking in China has been quite impressive and was



- 39 -                        ANNEX B
not ant'icipated at the beginning of the project when the NCFC facility was first proposed.
There are now four networks operating in China with Internet connections. These include
the China Science and Technology Network (CSTnet), operated out of the NCFC, the
China E]ducational and Research Network (CERNet), which is sponsored by the SEdC
and links together 200 of China's institutions of higher education, CHINAnet, which is
operated by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, and the GBnet, operated by
Liantong (UNICOM) which serves the "three goldens" project. The NCFC facility is the
center of the CSTnet, which includes the NCFC backbone network, completed in 1993
made up of the local networks of CAS (CASnet), Tsinghua University (TUnet), and
Beijing University (BUnet).
35.   Mini-supercomputer. In addition to serving as the center of CSTnet, NCFC also
serves as a scientific database center and, of course, as a center for supercomputing.
There have been an inordinate number of delays in the selection and procurement of the
mini-supercomputer some but by no means all caused by export license difficulties.
Finally, the SGI Power Challenge System, arrived in June 1996. In August 1996 it was
put inlo trial operation and in January 1997 into formal operation. It is being used by
researchers at seven CAS laboratories and at Beijing University. Currently, its rate of
utilization is about 70%. The availability of this facility to a wider user community is yet
to be announced.
36.   Due to the delays in the acquisition by the NCFC of the SGI Power Challenge,
researchers at Tsinghua University obtained from the government non-World Bank funds
with which they acquired an IBM SP-2 parallel computer. Its performance is comparable
to that of the SGI Power Challenge. It currently has about 160 users, of which 130 are
from 'rsinghua University, 10 from Beijing University and 20 from other universities in
and out of Beijing. At any one time, 30 to 40 different jobs are running on this facility.
All users have remote access to it and it is being used at about 70% capacity. Thus,
Tsinghua University has shown its ability to rapidly acquire and put into operation a
major computational facility and make it available to a relatively large number of users
from diverse institutions. It is the opinion of this mission that these efforts deserve
further and substantial financial support which will permit an additional upgrade as the
Tsinghua computer becomes saturated and, of equal importance, to acquire the
comrmercial software packages which will significantly augment the usefulness of this
facility to the general scientific community.
37.   Users/Allocations Committees. In order to maximize the scientific output of
these computers, a users conimittee should be established at each, which should make
recornmendations about which hardware upgrades and software packages to acquire, and
on improvements on the computer's operation. In addition, allocation committees made
up of computational science experts should be organized for each of these computers to
review the proposals of prospective users and allocate time on them based on scientific
merit and appropriateness of the computational methods proposed. This is a more
effective way of ascertaining productive use of the computers than adopting charging



- 40 -                        ANNEX B
algorithms for this purpose. It is the opinion of the mission that the use of these facilities
should remain free to the end users, as is currently the case.
38.  It is also the opinion of the mission that utilization of the networks, including the
links to other countries, should be free of charge to the end users. The cost of utilizing
these links should be borne by the government. Users requiring the transfer of extremely
large data bases which may strongly impact the available bandwidth of the network
should be required to submit proposals for such activities which would be judged by
rigorous peer-review before this kind of utilization is undertaken.
39.   While the supercomputer is now coming into more general use, a series of
important policy issues have yet to be settled. The first of these is whether non-CAS
users will have the same opportunities on the machine as CAS researchers (who thus far
have had the overwhelming majority of the access). This problem may become more
severe with the introduction of the satellite telecommunications link which will greatly
facilitate remote access to the machine but which will not be available to the university
system. It should be noted that even in Beijing, the NCFC is already perceived by one
university SKL as belonging to the CAS and as being too expensive to use.
40.   The question of who kas access to the machine is closely related to the
development of policies and an organizational framework for users, and policies for
financing the Center's operations. Concerning the latter, the NCFC has proposed that
NSFC (or the SPC) support the Center at the annual rate of about RMB 2 million. In
return, it would offer access to users free of charge. The NSFC is more inclined to
support supercomputing as a cost included in individual projects, but also believes that an
appropriate solution to the operating cost problem would be to have a cost sharing
arrangement involving the SSTC, CAS, SEdC, as well as itself. It is not clear when a
decision will be made on this matter, but continued delay compromises the achievement
of this important objective of the KSDP.
41.   It is clear that the impact of NCFC is considerably less than had been expected.
Scientists outside of the Beijing region know little about NCFC and those who do know
about it do not consider using it. Especially disappointing is the fact that at least some
scientists from Beijing University with large scale computational needs do not find the
existence of NCFC as suitable to their needs. The experience of NCFC contrasts sharply
with Tsinghua's leadership in the development of its center and of CERNet which has
been made operational in a fraction of the time taken by NCFC which is not yet fully
operational.
42.   Inputs/Infrastructure -- Equipment. A total of $116 million, about 88% of the
funding from the World Bank, was used for the purchase of scientific equipment,
primarily from foreign sources. Most of it was ordered as complete pieces of equipment.
The acquired equipment ranged from small instruments costing a few thousand dollars or
less to others in excess of $1.8 million. Some of it was state-of-the-art when ordered and
continued to be so after arriving and being put into operation. Some of it became



-41-                          ANNEX B
obsolete between the time of selection and delivery. This was the case for most of the
workstations. Nevertheless, the impact of this large injection of new equipment on the
quality and quantity of the research performed at the laboratories and on the quality of the
training of graduate students and the number of graduate students trained was major, as
detailed in earlier sections of this report.
43.   "Progress in Natural Sciences" is published in Chinese and English by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and reports research findings from
the SKLs. Started in 1991 with an initial budget of RMB 400,000, the journal combined
two previous publications which reported on the activities of the SKLs. The peer-
reviewed articles which appear in the journal cover the spectrum of science done in the
SKLs and therefore rivals the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS's) own "Science in
China" in scope, coverage and, reportedly, importance. However, the mission found that
there was relatively limited recognition of the journal among visited labs. The NSFC is
continuing to support the publication of the journal with a subsidy of RMB 500,000/ year.
The international distribution of the journal has been assisted for the last three years by
the British publisher Francis and Taylor, although it is not clear as to how much longer
such a relationship will continue.
44.   Technical Assistance -- Programme Advisory Group (PAG). The
Programme Advisory Group (PAG) was established to support the SPC's role in
providing guidance to the Project at the policy level. PAG was especially attentive to the
SKLs, the PLMP, and to the NCFC; its agenda also came to include the promotion of the
use of TA, making suggestions about the repayment of the loan, technology transfer
issues, and helping to speed up China's connection to the Internet. It was active in
revieviing the annual indicators of progress for each lab and made site visits to most of
the labs during the course of the project.
45.   The PAG, as an advisory committee, did not have the executive power and
organizational resources to push project implementation as far as it might have gone. A
stronger integration of the program components would have added additional value to the
overall KSDP. This is especially true with regard to a wider dissemination of PLMP
experiences and a broader involvement of ordinary researchers in the PLMP, and to a
stronger central role in coordinating solutions to procurement problems and the setting
aside of monies for spare parts, and in wiser and more imaginative uses of TA funds.
Although it is not clear that PAG was equipped for these roles, the absence of a stronger
central coordinating body meant that the promise of the KSDP as an integrated national
program, as opposed to an equipment acquisition effort, was not fully met.
46.   Domestic and International TA Programs. Domestic and international
technical assistance programs were designed to promote collaborative research with
forei,gn researchers. Data received from both the SEdC and CAS show that, in most
cases, the overall numerical targets were reached. However, implicit in any program to
which the World Bank adds its name is an opportunity to reach beyond the original goals
and achieve new ones. The foreign specialist program could have been organized into



- 42 -                        ANNEX B
tours of China by world renowned specialists who could have prepared and delivered
several keynote lectures at each university or institute. The prestige of the Bank-
supported project could have been used to ensure that these were the best possible
speakers and that their talks were well prepared, dealt with broad integrative themes in
science or laboratory management, and interpreted.
IV. Issues Affecting Project Implementation
47.   Repayment of the Loan has reportedly been resolved with the government's
recognition that the importance of the project investments into the labs and the national
significance of the contributions of the labs was such that the government, and to a lesser
extent the universities or institutes, rather than the individual labs should bear the
repayment burden of the project credit. Therefore, the repayment ratio has been decided
by the MOF and the SPC to be 60% by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) with 40% from
the CAS, the SEdC or the appropriate line ministry. Of the 40%, the university or
institute itself has been asked to assume 20% or a total of 8% of the total repayment
burden.
48.   Resolution of this issue has been slow in coming and affected the implementation
of the project. Especially in the university-based labs, directors were initially hesitant to
use the technical assistance portion of project funds, thus depriving their institutions of
the benefits of attendance at internal conferences, participation in joint research activities,
or inviting foreign specialists to their labs.
49.   Equipment procurement, for the most part, went well with scientific and
computation instrumentation arriving at the project labs on time and being tested and
accepted. However, as with other Bank-supported higher education projects, the Bank's
procurement procedures often stood in the way of achieving the maximum scientific
impact from the expensive equipment. Chinese procurement procedures necessitated the
use of government-approved tendering companies which meant that the laboratory end-
user and equipment vendor had little or no chance to interact and provide the best
equipment appropriate for the scientific task which the lab was pursuing. Some labs
complained that the SEdC and CAS's practice of packaging individual requests for
sophisticated instrumentation into groups of similar types of equipment provided some
labs with less or more than they had requested or needed.
50.   Buying computing equipment using the Bank procurement procedure is especially
cumbersome and in the end, expensive. With the fast pace of development of
computational equipment and the slow pace of ICB (in this case further slowed by export
license issues and the delay in project effectiveness), the computer often arrived two to
three years after they were chosen by the lab directors. These procedures should be
changed in future projects with higher education components.
51.   The mission feels that the decision of the lab directors on the appropriate
instrumentation should be paramount and more freedom should be introduced into the



- 43 -                        ANNEX B
equipment procurement process in the support of science projects such as the Key Studies
Development Project. Increasing the authority and responsibility of the individual
scientists and lab directors was one of the fundamental reform design elements of this
project, and it is the mission's view that the equipment procurement methods necessitated
by Bark and Chinese government procedures and practices does not encourage this
reform in the role of Chinese lab directors.
52.   The roles of the CAS, SEdC and SPC were all important in achieving the level
of success evident in the final stages of the project. The SEdC (and more particularly its
Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and the CAS (and more particularly its
Office of External Financing (OEF), were instrumental in ensuring that the equipment
procurement procedures were followed, that technical assistance moved forward, and that
the progress of the project was monitored and supervised. The SPC played an initial and
vital role in setting the project on its course and then turning over to the SEdC and the
CAS the responsibility of implementing the project.
53.   SEdC and the CAS could have provided the substantive direction of a traditional
Chief Scientist or Principle Investigator of large and complex scientific undertakings in
other countries. Equipment procurement and TA administration are critical to the success
of such an investment-focused project as this one was, but the mission feels that aspects
of the project would have benefited from a scientific and managerial leader who could
have worked to resolve such issues as the slow development of the NCFC, the repayment
of the: credit by the lab directors, dissemination of the best practices from the PLMP
activities or the maximum beneficial use of technical assistance. Without such an entity,
project supervision by the SEdC and CAS tended to focus on issues such as equipment
procurement for individual labs and not the more programmatic issues which affected all
of the labs. Without such an entity as a Chief Scientist the mission feels that the project
lost the opportunity to develop some of the broad integrative practices that the PLMP or
the 'NCFC could offer in the way of improved lab management or increased computer
end-user utilization.
54.   Prospects for Project Sustainability. Coming as it did at a time of rapid
econDmic development and internationalization in China, the project can be thought of as
riding a wave of change which is likely to enhance its sustainability. China has more
wealth than it had at the outset of the project, and more resources are available for
advanced education and research. The Chinese government has indicated its intention to
increase support for education and research during the 9th Five Year Plan, and has
launched a series of national programs to support these objectives. This augers well for
the project's sustainability.
55.   There are, however, a number of issues which must be confronted if the promises
of sustainability are to be realized:
(a)   there is the problem of the future of the SLs. Although some of these will
qualify for "211 " program funds, their exclusion from the SKL



- 44 -                        ANNEX B
accreditation review means they will be ineligible in the near term for
possible elevation to SKL status and will thus lose the opportunity to
secure increased operating funds;
(b)   the meager faculty salaries and graduate student stipends are a problem for
the project's sustainability;
(c)   although there are to be increases in government support for basic
research, the growing importance of contracted applied research and
development for the participating labs, and the pressures to transfer
technology, hold the potential for distorting the primary mission - that of
promoting advanced graduate training in basic science - of the KSDP; and
(d)   the prospects for sustainability would be enhanced were there more
commitment among labs to cooperate and share equipment. (see
paragraphs 74-78 of the World Bank/UNDP Mission Report for further
details on each point.)
V.   Lessons Learned and Recommendations:
56.   Lessons Learned. The main lesson learned in this project is that with the
investment of appropriate resources and careful planning it is indeed possible to
accelerate China's scientific and technological development through the training of its
graduate students at international levels of proficiency and in increased numbers. In
addition, the following new understanding of the process involved includes the following
elements: (further details can be found in paragraph 79 of the Mission Report.)
(a)   It is difficult to transfer managerial experience acquired in other countries
to China;
(b)   The scarcity of equipment has made the community maximize the amount
of new equipment purchased, at the expense of acquiring adequate
supplies of spare parts and consumable for the proper operation of that
equipment;
(c)   The sharing of major facilities, such as the mini-supercomputer at NCFC,
among a large variety of research and teaching institutions, is a new
experience for China's S&T community, to which they are not accustomed
and which is not facilitated by their strongly compartmentalized
organizational structure;
(d)   The dissemination of managerial know-how within and among
laboratories is slow and more efficient means for its acceleration should
have been adopted from the very beginning;



- 45 -                        ANNEX B
(e)   The PAG might have adopted a more pro-active role, akin to that of a
managerial Principal Investigator (PI) for the Project; and,
(f)   The World Bank ICB procurement procedures are not adequate for
projects in higher education and scientific research.
57.   Recommendations. As a result of the lessons learned, the mission makes the
following recommendations for the near future.
58.   Regarding training:
(a)   The number of students accepted directly into Ph.D. programs should be
increased to between 15% and 20% at least at all 211 universities;
(b)   The ratio of Ph.D. to MSc degrees granted should be further increased;
(c)   An affirmative action program to substantially increase the fraction of
Ph.D. degrees given to women should be adopted; and
(d)   The number of faculty permitted to advise Ph.D. students should be
substantially increased, especially for 21 1 universities.
59.   Regarding research:
(a)   The SKLs should issue yearly reports summarizing their research
activities, the number of degrees granted, graduate enrollment, and a
comprehensive list of papers published;
(b)   The SL laboratories should be awarded enough financial support by that
University to ensure that the equipment acquired using the World Bank
funds be maintained in operational condition and utilized;
(c)   The sources of funds for SKLs and SLs for fundamental research should
be sufficient for them not to become so dependent on short range service
work so as to distort their main mission; and
(d)   The review of competitive project proposals to ministries and other
sources of governmental funding should be done according to the same
rigorous peer review methodology used by NSFC.
60.   Regarding management:
(a)   A management manual should be produced which incorporates the best
practices of the PLMP laboratories and distributed to all SKLs and SLs;



- 46 -                         ANNEX B
(b)   An overall administrator with a strong scientific background and of high
standing in the scientific community should be appointed for such future
projects as the KSDP; and
(c)   In future equipment acquisitions it should be required for approval that
appropriate funding for spare parts, supplies, and other maintenance costs
for four years of operation be set aside and not be available for other
expenditures until the last year of this period.
61.   Regarding the NCFC:
(a)   A fully operational user committee and under its aegis, an allocations
committee should be set up as soon as possible;
(b)   The utilization of the computer should be cost-free for the end user and the
operation costs should be borne by the government in order to ensure the
maximum scientific impact of that important facility be achieved;
(c)   Future investments in this kind of national facility should go to an
institution which has demonstrated the greatest competence in managing
such a facility and in making it effectively and extensively available to
users outside their university or academy; and
(d)   The use of the national network, including its links to other countries,
should be free of charge to the end user.
62.   Regarding technical assistance:
(a)   For the acquisition of major new pieces of equipment, costing in excess of
$500,000, experienced and unbiased technical assistance should be
required to ascertain that the equipment being acquired is appropriate for
the utilization intended; and,
(b)   Visits by foreign experts in the areas of interest for SKL and SL
laboratories should continue to be encouraged and funds appropriate for
paying for such visits should be made available.
63.   Regarding procurement:
(a)   The current World Bank ICB procurement procedures have been found to
be inappropriate for projects of higher education and scientific training and
research and should be modified.
Halsey L. Beemer, Jr.
June 26, 1997



