Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C/E   ZZ IV _ -
Report No.8206-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 29, 1991
Environment, Human Resources and Urban
Development Division
Country Department III
Asia Reglonal Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorizadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1990)
Currency name - Renminbi (RMB)
Currency unit - Yuan (Y)-100 Fen
Yl.00 = US$0.19
US$1.00   Y5.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAS       -    Chinese Academy of Sciences
FILO      -    Foreign Investment Loan Office (of SEdC)
IHE       -    Institutes of Higher Education
LAN       -    Local Area Network
NCFC      -   National Computer and Network Facility of China
NSFC      -   National Natural Science Foundation of China
OEF       -   Office of External Financing (of CAS)
PAG       -    Program Advisory Group
PIMP      -    Pilot Laboratory Management Program
SEdC      -    State Education Commission
SKL       -    State Key Laboratory
SL        -    Special Laboratory
SPC       -    State Planning Commission
SSTC      -    State Science and Technology Commission
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
GLOSSARY
Province  -    China is divided into 23 provinces, 5 autonomous regions
and three municipalities, Beijing, Shanghai, and Tianjin.
In the report, the term "province" refers to provinces,
autonomous regions and municipalities.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHIN
KEYS DVL PMNT PRJECT
Credit and Progect Summary
Borr,ower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:      Universities, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS)
Credit Amount:      SDR 92.9 million (US$131.2 million equlvalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlending Terms:    Credit proceeds will be onlent to universities and
research institutes at an annual interest rate of 1.5%
repayable over a period of 15 years, including 5 years
of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the repaying institutions.
Cofinancier:        The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is
expected to provide a grant to finance US$1.6 million
equivalent of training and technical assistance costs.
Project Obiectives
and Description: The Credit would support the Government's decision,
issued in 1985, to reform the management of scienoe
and technology programs. The proposed project would:
(a) increase the output of scientific researchers
trained to international standards through master,
doctoral and post-doctoral programs; (b) enhance the
quality and productivity of research in strategic
areas relevant to long-term economic and social
development; (c) strengthen the management of
scientific research at both the national and
laboratory level; (d) provide a modern scientific
infrastructure for Chinese scientists trained at home
and abroad; and (e) encourage scientific cooperation
across institutional and national boundaries. The
project consists of: (a) support for research and
graduate student training in 133 State Key
Laboratories (SKL) and Special Laboratories (SL)
affiliated with universities and with the Chinese
Academy of Sciences (CAS); (b) a pilot program to
assist seven of the project laboratories to improve
management efficiency and the quality of research and
training of graduate students in science; (c)
development of a demonstration computer network that
would link Qinghua and Beijing Universities and the
Computer Center of CAS, and establish an enhanced
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



- ii
computing facility at the CAS center; and (d) a
program advisory group (PAG) of Chinese and foreign
experts that would provide science and technology
advice to implementing agencies on the overall
direction and progress of all components.  The Credit
would finance the foreign exchange costs of equipment
and materials needed for research, spare parts and
maintenance, books and journals, travel, technical
assistance and training.
Bgnefits:           The project would, in general, improve the country's
science and technology programs. Given the vital
long-term link between scientific research and social
and economic development, the general Chinese
population will benefit from the application of
research results in industry, agriculture, health care
and other important sectors over the long-term. The
project would specifically benefit the research
laboratories included in the project through better
managed research programs, equipment and improved
scientific computing capacity. Furthermore, the
beneficiaries of tl.e project will also be the Chinese
science students and researchers at the master,
doctoral and post-doctoral levels, who will be
provided with the necessary inputs to utilize their
talents to the maximum and upgrade the quality of
their research.
Risks:               The project faces two risXSs.  First, difficulties in
managing the project may arise, given its complexity.
The project includes a large number of laboratories
which conduct research in many diverse fields, and
several different implementing agencies.
Implementation requires strong leadership and
coordination, which the Government recognizes and has
agreed to furnish. Staffing and structure of the
major implementing agencies have been agreed and a
project steering committee has been appointed to
provide oversight. The second risk arises because the
competitive mechanisms that will be used to allocate
research funds to individual laboratories is newly
established, and may not function as expected to
provide sufficient research funds to project
laboratories. This risk would be mitigated by the
project's proposed improvement of the mechanism for
monitoring the availability of research funds, and by
the agreement of the Government to take appropriate
action when necessary.



- iii -
Estimated Project Cost*:
Local     Foreign      Total
-(US$ million)-
Labo:atory Component                              81.8       106.4      188.2
Pilot Laboratory Management Program                0.1         0.8        0.9
Nati'  il Computer and Network Facility            1.0         4.3        5.3
Program Advisory Mechanism                         0.0         0.6        0.6
Total Base Cost                        ALI        112.2       195.1
Physical Contingencies                             6.8         9.2       16.0
Price Contingencies                               16.0        11.4       27.4
Total Project Cost                     105.7      132.8       238.5
Financing Plan*:
Government                                       105.8         0.0      105.8
IDA                                                0.0      131.2       131.2
UNDP                                               0.0         1.6        1.6
Total                                  105.8      132.8       238,6
Estimated Disbursement*:
IDA FY            1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
- ----- (US$ million) ----------
Annual             10.0    55.0    56.2      8.0     2.0
Cumulative         10.0    65.0   121.2   129.2   131.2
Economic Rate of Return:  Not Applicabie
MAP IBRD No. 21935 Location of Project Laboratories
*Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- iv -
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND ........... ... 1
A. Graduate Education.                                               1
Historical Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Present Structure and Status.                                  2
B. Science and Technology.                                          4
Institutional Structure.                                       4
Financing Research and Development (R&D).                      5
Recent  Reforms    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
C. Key Sector Issues.                                               9
Career Prospects.                                              9
Adequacy of Inputs .10
Appropriateness of Training .10
Communication Among Institutions and With Industry  . . . . . 11
II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND BANK INVOLVEMENT    ..12
A. Government Objectives .12
B. Bank Group Work and Strategy .12
C. Project Origin .14
D. Rationaie for Bank/IDA Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
III. THE PROJECT    ..15
A.  Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B.  Project Components   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Research and Training in SKLs and SLs (Laboratory
Component)   . . . . . . . . . .                         15
Pilot Laboratory Management Program (PIMP) . . . . . . . . .  20
National Computer and Network Facility (NCFC) .21
Program Advisory Group .22
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to China in
May, 1989 comprising B. W. Searle (Principal Educator and Task Manager);
T. Bassler (Operations Assistant); H. Beemer (Science Administrator,
Consultant); A. Kuppermann (Chemical Physicist, Consultant); Y. H. Kwong
(Education Economist, Consultant); S. McIntyre (Research Laboratory
Director, Consultant); and S. Karin (Computer Specialist, Consultant) and
an appraisal mission in September comprising M/M Searle, Bassler, Beemer,
Kuppermann and McIntyre. L. Mih assisted in cost analysis and preparation
of statistical material. Peer reviewers comprised: Messrs. P. Cadario
(AS3CO), R. Harbison (EM4HR), M. Goldman (ASTIF), G. Hunting (AS5PH), and
W. Rees (ASTPH). The Division Chief is Z. Ecevit (AS3EH) and the
Department Director is S. J. Burki (AS3DR).



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ......  ..  ..  .  ..  ..          ...   24
A.  Project  Cost  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    24
Summary of Costs  ....  .  .  .     . ......  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   . 24
Cost Estimates .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Contingencies   ....  .     .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
Foreign Exchange Costs  . . .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
B.  Financing  ....  .  .    .  .  .   . .......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
Investment Costs  ....  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
Financing Ongoing Research Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Cofinancing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    28
V.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ......  .  .   .........   .  29
A.  Project Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Laboratory Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Pilot Laboratory Management Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
National Computer and Network Facility of China .  . I . . . 30
Program Advisory Group  ....  .  .    ......  .  .  .    .  .  .   .  30
B. Annual Reporting and Eval.uation .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Annual Reporting .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Evaluation .             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
C.  Project Implementation .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Status of Project Preparation .         . . . . . . I . . . . . . . 31
Project Implementation Sozhedule   ... .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
D. Procurement  ....  .      .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
Equipment .                                                     32
Books and Educational Materials .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Technical Assistance .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Graduate Education and Laboratory Operations .    . . . . . . . 34
Bank Review   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
E.  Disbursements  ....  .  .    .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
Documentation of Expenditures .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Special Accounts  ....  .  .    .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  37
F.  Accounts and Audits  ....  .  .  .    . .....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .   .  37
VI.  PROJECT OUTCOMES. BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
A Outcomes   ..38
B.  Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    38
Special Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
C.   Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40



- vi -
TABLES IN TEXT                                                Page No.
1.1: Expenditures and Scientists in R&D Institutions (1985) ...  6
1.2:  Sources of Funds for Key Studies Development Project
Laboratories (1986-1988) .............................  7
1.3:  Annual Sources of Funds: A Project Comprehensive
University (1985) ..............7 ...................    7
3.1:  Distribution of Laboratories and Research Topics Among
Scientific Fields ...............                   17
3.2:  Current and Projected Number of Researchers in Project
Laboratories ...............                        19
3.3: Current and Projected Graduate Student Enrollments ....... 20
4.1: Summary of Project Costs By Component .................... 25
4.2: Summary of Project Costs By Category of Expenditures ..... 26
4.3: Financing Plan ........................................... 28
5.1: Training and Specialist Services - Laboratory Component.. 34
5.2: Procurement Arrangements ................................. 35
5.3: Disbursement Forecast .................................... 36
FIGURES
3.1: Distribution of Research Topics Among SKLs and SLs ....... 18
AMNEXES
Annex 1:  Project Laboratories
Annex 2:  Research Proposal and Peer Review Process
Annex 3:  Significance of Project-Supported Research for China's
Economic and Social Development
Annex 4:  Pilot Laboratory Management Program
Annex 5: Terms of Refere.ace for Program Advisory Group
Annex 6:  Annual Reporting
Annex 7:  Project Costs
Annex 8:  Guidelines for the Use of Technical Assistance Funds for
the Laboratory Component
Annex 9:  Outline of Proposed Special ICB Procedures
Annex 10: Draft Guidelines for Use of Discretionary Funds
Annex 11: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 12: Selected Documents and Data in Project File
Chart 1:  Project Management Structure
MAP IBRD No. 21935 Location of Project Laboratories



CHI
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Graduate Education
Historical Background
1.1       Over the past 40 years, higher education in China has undergone
dramatic changes as the Government has attempted to shape the system of
undergraduate and graduate education to meet changing development and
political needs. In the period 1949-1956, the focus of higher education
was on training skilled manpower for economic development and
industrialization. Using models of higher education structure derived from
the Soviet Union, the Government put in place a system of coexisting
general comprehensive universities, technical universities and research
institutes. The general comprehensive universities, run by the Ministry of
Higher Education, .zxere responsible for training political, economic,
cultural and scientific personnel, whereas the technical institutes and
universities, primarily run by and for the line ministries, were
responsible for training technical and managerial personnel. In response
to perceived needs, and following the Soviet pattern, research was
separated from teaching, curricula were highly specialized, study programs
were narrow, and few basic fot.ndation courses were taught.
1.2       Basic resedrch in the natural, engineering, agricultural,
military and medical sciences became largely the responsibility of the
newly created (or recently expanded) Chinese Academies of Sciances,
Agriculture, and Medicine as well as research units directly tied to the
line ministries. Graduate education was little emphasized because of its
length and cost and the relative lack of qualified faculty to act as
mentors. A relatively small number of senior professors each supervised
only a few graduate students. This model was used in both universities and
institutes. Between 1949 and 1956 about 12,200 students entered graduate
fields of study, and some 7,000 completed their studies. During the same
period, about 676,000 students entered undergraduate fields of study and
roughly 300,000 graduated.
1.3       During the ,eriod from 1949 to 1966, expansion of university-
based graduate education in the natural and engineering sciences placed
academic leadership largely in the hands of mentors who themselves had only
completed undergraduate education. These mentors had been schooled in
narrow curricula, had not been trained in research methods and, for the
most part, had not conducted much original research. Experience in
university laboratories was focused on prescribed experiments for
undergraduate curricula in sciences and engineering, using equipment more
suitable for student practice than for research. Under the circumstances,
it was difficult for mentors to teach graduate students methods useful for
original research.



2 -
1.4       Central funding and the assignment of graduates by the Ministry
of Education or line ministries encouraged the narrow curricular focus in
training. Graduates were placed either in teaching positions or research
institutes where their functions were driven by economic development goals
of the parent agency. They were often used to fulfill short-term manpower
requirements. In the natural, engineering and medical sciences, this need
to train for immediate job placement often froze the graduate to a rapidly
obsolescing stock of knowledge while not providing him or her with the
broad-based education necessary to deal adequately with a changing
technological environment.
1.5       It was not until after the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) that
the Ministry of Education initiated serious efforts to enlarge and
restructure the higher education sector so as to strengthen its capability
to train skilled manpower and to develop a research capacity within the
universities and technical institutes. The Government reintroduced a
nationwide university entrance examination system in 1977, created a
national system of undergraduate and graduate degrees in 1981, and
initiated substantial efforts to build research laboratories and computer
centers in laboratories in 1982. In 1985, the Ministry of Education was
elevated to the State Education Commission (SEdC) and charged with
providing policy guidance on all higher education and training. The
reforms begun in 1978 are being undertaken in recognition that new skill
mixes are necessary in an economy which is moving from central planning to
one more influenced by market forces. In a technological environment that
is evolving at an ever-increasing rate, the old structure and philosophy of
undergraduate education is no longer completely valid.
Present Structure and Status
1.6       Current Chinese graduate education largely reflects the
structure of the higher education system. In 1987, of about 755
institutions awarding graduate degrees, slightly over 50% were
universities. These institutions include both the 36 comprehensive
universities directly administered by SEdC and those under the jurisdiction
of line ministries, provinces and municipalities. The remaining graduate
degree granting institutions are research institutes, falling under the
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and other academies (15%), line
ministries (25%), and provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions
(10%). The infrastructure for awarding graduate degrees has grown
dramatically, from 370 institutions and 11,000 students iti 1978 to 755
institutions and 113,100 students in 1987.
1.7       Although many types of institutions award graduate degrees, the
bulk of students (almost 90% in 1987) are now studying for these degrees in
universities. Master and PhD programs each typically last two to three
years and both require a thesis. Entry is through competitive examination,
which is nationwide for basic courses and institution-based for specialized
courses. Not all faculty or researchers are permitted to supervise
graduate students. Authorization is granted by a committee of the State
Council to qualified full professors and, on an exceptional basis, to



associate professors. In 1987, about 43,500 faculty/researchers were
entitled to supervise masters students and 3,800 of these could supervise
PhD candidates. Limiting master and PhD supervision to senior faculty has
systematically deprived the recently trained and considerably younger PhD
holders of opportunities to supervise graduate students officially. In
practice, many younger scientists are working closely with graduate
students under the general guidance of senior faculty. This practice is
far from universal, however.
1.8       Many young PhDs have recently returned from overseas; they are
often the repositories of the most current scientific and technical
information and research techniques. Their graduate programs have exposed
them to a breadth of interdisciplinary course work not generally found in
China and to research and computing instrumentation that is only recently
becoming available locally. It is important that these researchers be
supported by policies that recognize them as an important new generation of
highly skilled scientists, engineers, economists and managers.
1.9       Several policy changes initiated in the past few years encourage
better utilization of Chinese graduate degree holders. A measure of
flexibility has been added to the ,ob assignment process, allowing for some
degree holders to seek their own job opportunities. The eventual delinking
of the job assignment process from the line ministries, which control most
of the institutes and universities which produce these graduates, would
assist in breaking down the inbreeding which characterizes much of the
hiring of teaching faculty and research personnel for universities and
research institutes. This process should also encourage universities and
institutps to strengthen and broaden curricula, knowing that their
graduating degree holders will not be automatically assigned to teaching or
research responsibilities within only one ministry, but will have to seek
employment in a larger arena where a greater array of skills and talents
will be necessary.
1.10      Another policy innovation has been the creation of post-doctoral
stations. These are positions created in universities, technical
institutes and research institutes that provide recent doctoral recipients
with two years of research funding, along with extra housing and other
benefits. Funding levels are modest by international standards, but
adequate to allow for support of small research groups. Available to those
who have earned their PhD in China or abroad, post-doctoral stations are
expected to encourage recent PhD recipients to initiate research work
within a Chinese institutional framework. The policy attempts to support
new PhDs (especially those returning from abroad) by allowing them more
time and funding to conduct research.
1.11      Finally, many laboratories have been designated "open
laboratories." In return for additional financial support from the State,
these laboratories agree to appoint an independent Academic Committee
responsible for major policy guidance, and to open their facilities to
researchers from other departments or institutions. An Academic Council
established for each laboratory, two-thirds of whose members must be from



outside the parent institution, plays a major role in funding decisions and
in maintaining quality through evaluation of theses and research proposals.
More than half of the research projects in an open laboratory are expected
to come from nationally awarded research grants; others are financed by the
open lab using its dedicated funds from the State.
1.12      Efforts to reform undergraduate and graduate curricula are being
made at both the national and institutional level. The reforms are aimed
at decreasing the large number of narrow specialties in which degrees are
conferred while increasing the number of basic or fundamental courses
students must incluee in degree programs. For example, SEdC, which must
approve new curricula, has recently reduced the number of narrowly focused
engineering degree programs from about 665 to about 100, broadening their
scope of concentration and increasing the number of required basic courses
in physics, chemistry, mathematics, computational science and, in some
cases, biology. Curricular reform has been carried out mainly by key
comprehensive universities which have been encouraged by SEdC to experiment
in course design and development of syllabi and educational materials.
Many of the experimental courses are taught by young PhDs or visiting
scholars who have recently returned from abroad. In the process of
broadening degree programs, SEdC has also added new programs focusing on
new emerging technologies, interdiscipliLary approaches to complex
scientific research and technology development (S&T) issues, and state-of-
the-art scientific fields. Although much has been achieved in the past ten
years, these reform efforts have been made difficult by the lack of
adequate teaching materials, appropriately stocked laboratories, and
faculty broadly trained in the new degree programs. In addition, some line
ministries resist changing programs that are narrowly targeted on specific
jobs.
B.  Science and Technology
Institutional Structure
1.13      The S&T system in China includes research and development (R&D)
organizations, education and training institutions, and service
organizations. (Service organizations include those responsible for
collecting and disseminating data and information, for setting standard
weights and measures, and so on.) S&T institutions may be subordinate to
governmental organizations, such as those directly responsible to the State
Council, various line ministries or CAS. Alternatively, they may be
subordinate to institutions of higher education at the national, provincial
or municipal level. Some are responsible to nonprofit groups such as
professional societies or social welfare organizations, and a substantial
amount of research is carried out by the military. An increasing number of
S&T organizations have affiliated commercial units which manufacture and
sell products directly or indirectly related to the S&T organization's
focus of research. These units have grown substantially in recent years
and continue to be viewed as making an important contribution to China's
economic development.



1.14      Major responsibility for policy formulation rests with the State
Science and Technology Commission (SSTC). SSTC was established in 1958 and
was originally expected to prepare broad plans for development of S&T, but
coordination with the State Planning Commission (SPC) proved difficult.
Thus, in the early 1980s, a joint SSTC-SPC planning bureau was formed to
better integrate economic and research planning. This bureau, which has
taken the lead in the formulation of the proposed Key Studies Development
Project, is unusual in the Chinese Government in that it provides a
structural bridge between two administrative entities.
1.15      SSTC currently comprises about 30 departments and affiliated
organizations and has about 1,000 stiff at the central level. In addition
to planning and policy formulation, the SSTC and its provincial level
counterparts are involved in S&T personnel matters (including certification
of the qualifications of technical staff at various levels), formal
assessment of research achievements, and promoting exchange of information
bot.L- domestically and internationally. SSTC has also launched development
programs in priority areas, including high technology (computer science,
remote sensing, biotechnology, and the TORCH program to support small high
tech firms) and the application of S&T to rural development through the
formation of the National Center for Rural Technology Development and
initiation of the SPARK program. (The SPARK program, which assists
development of village and township enterprises, was assisted by a Bank-
financed project that has been recently approved by the Board.)
Financing Research and DeveloRment (R&D)
1.16      In 1985 the Government spent almost 12 billion yuan (US$2.3
billion) on research and development. Table 1.1 on page 6 provides a
breakdown of numbers of research institutes, scientific manpower and
expenditures for research institutes under different sponsoring
organizations. In terms of expenditures, research institutes run by line
ministries were (and still are) the most significant, accounting for more
than half of the expenditures. Universities as a group provide the most
staff. Although the expenditure data for universities are not strictly
comparable to the remainder of the data (they were collected separately,
using somewhat different definitions), the table suggests that university
researchers are underfunded relative to those under other sponsorship.
Using a crude measure of dividing expenditures by number of scientists and
technicians, scientists in line ministry, CAS and locally run institutes
(but riot counties) spent roughly 20,000 yuan per person in 1985. More
specific data available to the mission suggest that about 11,000 yuan per
researcher is available to researchers in universities.
1.17      Sources of funds for research are diverse.  Table 1.2 on page 7
shows the sources of funds during 1986-88 for research in the laboratories
to be supported under the project. Increasingly, funds are being allocated
for specific research work, most of which is targeted to research
identified through central planning mechanisms. Of total funds,
institutions under line ministries spend about 40%, tniversities under SEdC
40% and those under local governments 20%. For CAS, in 1988 about 80% of



funds were from the CAS budget, 11% from contracts with enterprises, 2%
from NSFC and the remainder from other sources. Table 1.3 on page 7
presents data for one comprehensive SEdC university visited by the mission.
This university had available about Y 14 million for research expenses (cf
which 1 million yuan was for social science). More than half its research
funds came from special research projects funded by the state. This
university had 1,400 researchers, so the per capita funds available from
all sources were about Y10,000.
Table 1.1: EXPENDITURES AND SCIENTISTS IN R&D INSTITUTIONS (1985)
Sponsoring     Number of Research    Number of Scientists         Expenditures
Organizations      Institutions     and Technical PersonnelP     . (Y Million)
Line Ministries           932                 272,000                  6,050
Localbi                 4,706                 223,000                  4,007
County                  3,360                  23,200                    215
Universities            1,254                 426,000                    5990/
CAS                       122                  44,500                    851
Total         10.374                 988.700                  11.722
a/   It is estimated that about 25% of scientists and technical personnel
are women.
bI   Below national, above county level.
Cl   Includes only funds spent on R&D.  Hence, probably not strictly
comparable to other expenditure figures, which are more
comprehensive.
Source:   R. P. Suttmeier, Science and Technology Research in China, 1988,
unpublished draft. Data are from SSTC and SEdC.



- 7 -
lable 1.2: SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LABORATORIES (1986-1988)91
Source                                           Percentage
Research project funds from SSTC, SPC,
CAS and SEdC                                     25
Targeted funds from other ministries
and central government agencies                  29
Contract research for enterprises
and revenue from other services                  19
Targeted funds from local governments                   5
NSFC                                                    9
Other                                                  13
100
4 Does not include funds for graduate student training.
Source:   Science and Technology Bureau, State Planning Commission
Table 1.3: ANNUAL SOURCES OF FUNDS: A PROJECT COMPREHENSIVE UNIVERSITY
(1985)
Source                                  Amount             Percentage
(Yuan thousands)
SEdC PhD research funda/                  500                    3.5
SEdC support for research                 900                    6.4
University operating funds                200                    1.4
NSFC                                    2,000                   14.2
SSTC funded projects                    7,500                   53.2
Local governments                       1,000                    7.1
Contracts with enterprises              2.000                   14.2
Total         14,100                  100.0
Number of researchers: 1400
Average per capita expenditure: 10,000 yuan
a/   A significant percentage is applied to university overhead.
Source:   Mission data



-8-
Recent Reforms
1.18      Recognizing the importance of science and technology to economic
development, and the concomitant requirement to strengthen the pool of
skilled S&T personnel, China in 1985 issued a decision on Reform of the
S-%ience and Technology Management System, which calls for vigorously
promoting technology development; redoubling efforts in applied research;
ensuring steady, continuous progress in basic research; and reforming S&T
parsonnel administration. The decision grants increased decision-making
power and financial responsibility to research units and their directors;
announces the formation of Science Foundations to support basic and some
applied research and the awarding of grants through peer review to
introduce competition into financing of research, thereby improving
quality; advocates promoting S&T personnel on the basis of performance;
reduces institutional and other barriers to the free flow of scientists and
other scientific and technical personnel between institutions; and
strengthens links between researchers and production units.
1.19      To implement the proposed reform, recent State Council policy
directs research units in the 100 largest universities, ministry and
academy research institutes to establish or strengthen ties with export
related, foreign exchange earning enterprises and industries in coastal
provinces. These policies reflect the importance placed by the Chinese
Government on speeding up the process of moving the results of basic and
applied science from the laboratory into the economy.
1.20      In 1986, the State Council established the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (NSFC) to provVe grant funding throughout
China for research projects chosen through a peer review mechanism that for
the first time introduces competition into the funding of research. Policy
for NSFC is set by a 25-member Council comprising well-known scientists and
managers from SSTC, SEdC and CAS. Funding decisions are made by about 40
evaluation groups that draw on the services of almost 500 scholars. An
additional 10,000 specialists are available for initial technical review of
proposals. From 1986 to 1988 NSFC provided 258 million yuan for 8,690
research projects. While many projects are supported, individual grants
are small, on average about 30,000 yuan, which covers only direct research
costs, not equipment or salaries.
1.21      In general, the Government policy regarding provision of
recurrent costs for research is to encourage laboratories to find funds
themselves through two mechanisms, peer-reviewed competition organized by
NSFC and SSTC, and through contracts with industry. NSFC grants finance
only recurrent costs: SSTC grants are larger and often allow for the
purchase of equipment. The introduction of competitive procedures for
allocating scarce research funds is a significant advance. A November 1989
government report indicates that peer review procedures for financing
research have been adopted by 17 State ministries and departments as well
as a number of provinces and municipalities. The experience in other
countries indicates that peer reviewing is an important procedure for
selecting research studies that have a high probability of meeting their



objectives and supporting scientists with good track records. China, like
many other countries, sets aside special funds for young scientists to help
them establish the necessary track record. A major shortcoming of this
effort is that the grants do not finance equipment. The newly established
open laboratories (para. 1.11) will help solve this problem by allowing
researchers to use their research grants at laboratories already equipped
with the appropriate instruments.
1.22      In the early 1980s the State Planning Commission initiated the
State Key Laboratories (SKL) program, which concentrates scarce resources
on existing laboratories affiliated with universities and Chinese Academy
of Sciences (CAS) institutes that: (a) work on key specialties of economic
and social relevance; (b) excel in research output, staff and facilities;
(c) demonstrate links with industry; (d) play a significant role in
educating graduate students; and (e) as open laboratories (para. 1.11),
provide opportunities for researchers from other labs as well as foreign
researchers to work collaboratively on projects of national and
international importance. After prospective SKLs are identified, SPC
provides support for an organization phase, during which a lab is expected
to establish appropriate management procedures, including fulfilling the
requirements for becoming an open lab. The State also provides funds to
upgrade the level and quantity of equipment.
1.23      A first phase of the SKL program will be nearly completed by the
time of initiation of the proposed project. Of the 70 labs participating
in this first phase, about 40 have satisfactorily completed the
organization phase. The newly established laboratories are evaluated
according to SPC criteria, and if they meet these standai4s, they are
conferred the status of SKL, which entitles them to special grant funding,
currently about Y350,000 per year.
C. Key Sector Issues
1.24     'While great progress has been made in restructuring and
improving the quality of scientific research and training, many problems
remain. Major issues fall into four categories: (a) limited career
prospects; (b) difficulties in acquiring the physical and intellectual
inputs necessary for conducting research; (c) inappropriate methods of
training, for both scientists and technicians; and (d) poor articulation
between research institutions themselves and with end users of technology
in industry.
Career Prospects
1.25      Recently, for the first time, spaces in graduate programs are
remaining unfilled because research careers are no longer as attractive as
in the past. Not only is advancement slow, but transfer from one
institution to another is still difficult, and many scientists and
technicians, including many younger ones with high quality education,
report that their skills are underused. In some instances, women report



- 10 -
difficulties in being placed in top research laboratories and in finding
opportunities to use their training. In recent years, there has been a
tendency to accord higher status to advanced degrees obtained abroad than
to those obtained domestically, creating another cause for underutilization
of skills.
Adeguacy of Inputs
1.26      Virtually all laboratories report difficulty in acquiring, on a
regular and timely basis, the physical inputs necessary to conduct
research. Cumbersome methods for obtaining consumables and spare parts
slow the pace of research. Administrative difficulties often must be
resolved by laboratory managers and senior scientists, inappropriately
using their time and talents. Paradoxically, when laboratories do acquire
expensive equipment, it is often underused because of reluctance to
sharing. Scientists must also devote considerable time to clerical work
which is an inefficient use of their time.  Information, an essential
requirement for modern research, is difficult to acquire in China.
Domestic and foreign journals and books circulate, albeit not quickly, but
in many fields, keeping up requires even faster communication than that
achieved through journals. Telepbnne, fax, and computer networks now play
an essential role in modern science and China is short of adequate service
in all these areas. Time on high speed computers is also a necessity in
many areas of modern research, both basic and applied. The availability of
computer power is growing, but continuing attention must be paid to
expanding and updating the provision of this crucial input to research.
1.27      Funding levels and mechanisms also constrain research.
Laboratories must still rely to a certain extent on budgetary allocations
from SPC, SSTC, CAS or SEdC, although funding sources are gradually being
diversified to include significant levels of support from NSFC and
contracts with industry. The main sources of revenue are generally for
capital improvements or equipment purchases linked to the specific research
needs and priorities of the funding agency. Often there are shortages of
funds to support ongoing research and to enable researchers to undertake
basic science or to pursue new or neglected areas of inquiry. University
laboratories, in particular, experience a shortage of funds for consumables
and spare parts, and all institutions have difficulty acquiring foreign
exchange for these purposes.
Appropriateness of Training
1.28      As noted above (para 1.12), China is working to overcome a
tradition of excessively narrow specialties at both undergraduate and
graduate levels. Many graduate programs still do not provide the broad-
based training that is required to stay current in a rapidly changing
scientific and technological environment. Furthermore, many institutions
are not able to provide adequate hands-on experience with laboratory
instruments. Many graduate students do not have the opportunity, which
scientists in many fields consider essential to modern research training,
to design, build, use and modify equipment. Laboratory technicians also



- 11 -
lack the generalized training that allows them to adapt readily to
developments in scientific instrumentation.
Communication Among Institutions and With Industry
1.29      Within the research community, prior practice has been for
scientists to remain at a single institution throughout their working
career. Often this is the same institution at which the researcher has
been trained. The stimulation and cross-fertilization that comes from both
temporarily and permanently changing institutional affiliations has been
almost entirely absent.
1.30      Enterprise reform is improving the environment for technological
change in China. In addition, China introduced its first patent law in
1985 and is formulating a legal framework for other forms of technology
contracts. Despite these developments, there remain organizational and
incentive problems to linking work in the laboratory to the requirements of
enterprises. Mobility of scientists between research institutes and
enterprises is limited. It is estimated that of those scientists who work
in enterprises, only half are working in manufacturing entities. Lack of
labor mobility in general continues to work against the dissemination of
applied research and adoption of new technology.



- 12 -
II. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND BANK INyOLVEMENT
A. Government Objectives
2.1       The Government is undertaking a variety of programs, funded both
internally and externally, with the aim of strengthening the S&T system
(paras. 1.18-1.23). The World Bank is being asked to assist through the
proposed project and through studies to be supported by the Planning
Support and Special Studies Credit (Cr. 1835-CHA) (para. 2.6). The timing
of the proposed studies is such that they will be closely coordinated with
the work of the project. The project itself, through its support of
applied research, through its use of research proposal appraisal procedures
that require peer review, and through contemplated management changes,
would contribute directly to achieving the objectives of the Government's
reform programs.
2.2       Fundamental to the SPC's planning of the present project has
been a strong commitment to overcoming some of the structural differences
and outdated institutional goals of the institutes of the Chinese Academy
of Sciences and the universities. Through this project, SPC seeks to
enhance the graduate training programs of CAS and, within universities, to
support the recently created research infrastructure and thereby move the
universities toward a more comprehensive scientific environment in which
the best graduate training is done in conjunction with the most advanced
scientific and computational equipment. Through the proposed project, SPC,
SEdC and CAS seek to develop a comprehensive, complete and mutually
supportive education and research structure which will better serve China
in meeting the new and rapidly changing challenges of economic and social
development.
B. Bank Group Work and Strategy
2.3       The Bank Group has financed nine projects supporting higher
education in ahina, three of which are closely related to the proposed
project.  The first University Development Project (Ln. 2021-CHA/Cr. 1167-
CHA) assisted 28 universities administered by SEdC to increase the number
of graduates and the volume of scientific research work and to improve the
quality of research and university management. The Second University
Development Project (Cr. 1551-CHA) '-ad similar objectives for 34
universities, almost all of which are affiliated with line ministries. The
Provincial Universities Project (Cr. 1671-CHA) is providing similar
assistance to 60 universities administered by provinces.
2.4       Only one of the projects has been completed.  The PPAR for the
University Development Project (Report No. 7561, dated Dec. 30, 1988),
concludes that "it is possible to undertake a large-scale improvement and
modernization program in education and research within a short time if an
effective implementation structure is in place and a broad base of
professional manpower is already available for systematic upgrading"



- 13 -
(p. vi). The PPAR raises two issues. The first concerns equipment
utilization and replacement. It suggests that a phased operation might
have been preferable to the very large project so that experience could
have been gained gradually with large, sophisticated equipment and some
duplication c-.uld have been avoided. The present project has been designed
taking into account the modest absorptive capacity of individual
laboratories (para. 3.3) and the need to avoid duplication (para. 3.6).
The second issue concerns the failure of many of the students sent overseas
for long-term training to return to China on schedule although scholars
sent abroad for shorter periods have a very high rate of return. The
proposed Key Studies Development Project aims to improve the capacity to
train scientific researchers domestically, thus reducing substantially the
number sent abroad for long-term training, and to increase the opportunity
for active researchers to conduct research collaboratively with foreign
researchers, both in China and abroad. Thus, the project directly
addresses this second issue raised by the PPAR.
2.5       The Bank strategy in education calls for assisting the
Government in three areas:
(a) to build a modern education system that can produce the
innovative entrepreneurs and skilled v'orkers required for
China's goal of economic development through advances in
science and technology and improved quality of the work
force;
(b) to adjust the structure and functions of the education
system so that it can better adapt itself to the dynamic
changes taking place in the economy; in particular to
adjust to the more flexible employment policies and
practices and growth in the private and tertiary sectors;
and
(c) to strengthen the capacity of local education authorities
to carry out their new responsibilities under
decentralization, fiscal and otherwise.
The proposed project addresses all of these objectives by improving the
quality of training for scientific research personnel, by tightening the
links between research and graduate training, and by improving the
management of scientific laboratories that carry the major burden of
meeting the needs of industry for trained personnel.
2.6       Two studies which are closely coordinated with the project were
proposed by the Government for separate funding. The first, by the State
Science and Technology Commission, would address issues of science policy,
especially the identification of priority areas and criteria for allocating
funding and the refinement of indicators used to track progress in S&T
development. The second, by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (NSFC), would study means for strengthening the newly established
system for scientific grant funding. These studies have been approved for



- 14 -
financing by the Planning Support and Special Studies Credit (Cr. 1835-
CHA).
C. Project Origin
2.7       In 1986 the State Education Commission approached the Bank for
support for a project to improve graduate education, as a follow-on to
earlier university development projects. Subsequently, SPC decided to use
the project to support new laboratories under the State Key Laboratory
program (para. 1.22). A reconnaissance mission visited China in August
1988 and agreed with the Government that the project would support about 70
prospective State Key Laboratories chosen through a competitive process.
During an identification mission in November 1988, agreement was reached to
include a further group of university-based laboratories, designated
Special Laboratories (SLs), that were worthy of support but did not meet
all of SPC's criteria for becoming SKIs.
D. Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement
2.8       The changing economy of China requires a corresponding
strengthening in the country's science and technology capacity. The
proposed project contributes towards this purpose. A key to this effort is
strengthening the institutional mechanisms through which scientific
research and training of future scientists are conducted. The Bank has
been involved in projects in such countries as China, Brazil and Korea,
assisting governments in improving their higher education subsectors, in
particular the science and engineering disciplines. This is particularly
the case in China where the proposed project would continue the support for
development in science education begun under several previous projects
(para. 2.3). 'If the 48 universities to be included in the Key Studies
Development Project, about 80% have been supported by previous Bank
projects. Because of these earlier projects, as well as through China's
own efforts, there are now large numbers of science and engineering
graduates who are well qualified to undertake graduate education, and
significant numbers of young PhDs who have been trained overseas and are
ready to propel scientific R&D in China to an internationally competitive
level.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives
3.1       The proposed project would: (a) increase the production of
scientific researchers trained to internationial standards through master,
doctoral and post-doctoral programs; (b) enhance the quality and
productivity of research in strategic areas relevant to long-term economic
and social development (these are: energy, transportation and
communication, raw and processed materials, machinery and electronics,
agriculture, biotechnology, new materials, health and pharmaceuticals,
environmental protection and natural geo-engineering and basic science);
(c) strengthen the management of scientific research at both the national
and laboratory level; (d) provide a modern scientific infrastructure for
Chinese scientists trained at home and abroad; and (e) encourage scientific
cooperation across institutional and national boundaries.
B. Project Components
3.2       The project would comprise four components: (a) research and
training in State Key Laboratories and Special Laboratories; (b) a pilot
laboratory management program; (c) a national computer and network
facility; and (d) a program advisory mechanism. The Credit would finance
primarily the foreign exchange costs of the equipment, experts, travel,
books and journals, raw materials and other consumables, spare parts and
maintenance that would be required to conduct the specific research
projects proposed by project laboratories. The project would also provide
for technical assistance and a small amount of equipment for the pilot
laboratory management program and establishment of a program advisory
group, which are described below in more detail.
Research and Training in SKLs and SLs (Laboratory Component)
3.3       The laboratory component would finance research and graduate
student training in 133 laboratories affiliated with 48 universities and
with 22 CAS institutes.'/ Seventy-five of the laboratories are candidate
SKLs. For these labs, the project would finance laboratory "construction"
or formation, a formal process during which the laboratory acquires the
management structure and procedures, equipment, and appropriate level of
skilled researchers to meet the State's rigorous standards for final
designation as an SKL (para. 1.22). SLs are distinguished from SKLs by
their sponsorship and level of funding. Many of the SLs are not eligible
to be SKLs because their work is in basic rather than applied sciences.
1/   The laboratories are listed in Annex 1 and their locations indicated
on IBRD Map No. 21935. They are located in 19 provinces and
municipalities.



- 16 
They remain under the jurisdiction of their respective host universities
and do not receive additional special funding from the State. In these
labs, great importance would be given to developing a strong research
program as a means of providing modern training for graduate students in a
wide variety of fields. Some SLs would be considered for accreditation as
SKLs.
3.4       Key to achieving the overall project goal of integrating
advanced scientific research with high quality graduate education is the
incorporation of the following innovations: (a) the introduction of a peer
review process both to select those laboratories to be included in the
project and to screen requests for advanced and appropriate scientific and
computational instrumentation; (b) the creation of an Academic Committee
(para. 1.11) for each laboratory; (c) strengthening of the management role
of the laboratory director with increased responsibility for finance and
administration and delegation of decision making to a level closer to the
actual process of education and research; (d) a continuous and rigorous
monitoring, reporting, and evaluation process organized by the SPC in
consultation with NSFC and carried out by SEdC and CAS to assure that the
goals set by the SKLs and SLs are being pursued with purpose and vigor, and
that the achievements of the laboratories are recognized nationally and
internationally and incorporated into China's larger goals of economic and
social development. Each laboratory would determine how its technical
assistance funds would be used, following State guidelines. Funds would be
spent for collaborative research (bringing foreign scientists to
laboratories in China and sending Chinese scientists abroad), visits by
university scientists to give lectures and review graduate education
programs, seminars, workshops, and attendance of Chinese scientists at
international conferences.
3.5       Project laboratories, although identified as new for purposes of
funding under the project, are building on existing infrastructure and
accomplishments. The proposed laboratories have fixed assets worth
(original value) Y648 million (US$125 million), of which Y564 million is
instruments and equipment. The remainder represents 184,300 m2 of
laboratory buildings. According to SPC records, since 1983 these entities
have published 747 treatises, presented or published 2,840 papers at
international forums or in international (refereed) journals, e i presented
or published 18,000 papers at domestic forums or in Chinese journals.
Almost 500 items have been granted patent rights in China or abroad and 325
projects have won state awards.
3.6        SKLs and SLs were chosen through a rigorous selection procedure
that included examination of the laboratory's past achievements and plans
for research and graduate student training. The evaluation was carried out
by peer review groups of prominent Chinese scientists through review of
written proposals and site visits. Each lab has submitted a proposal
comprising a laboratory-wide profile and individual research proposals
which include a budget to finance the proposed research work. A particular
focus of the review was the appropriateness of the equipment for the
research proposed, and the absence of other local sources of equivalent



- 17 -
capabilities and facilities. The guidelines for laboratory proposals and
the peer review process are summarized in Annex 2. The SKLs and SLs to be
established under the project would be expected to carry out research of
international quality in a way that makes rational use of scarce resources,
to train researchers to that international standard, to strengthen the
management of research, to provide a modern scientific infrastructure for
their researchers, and to do research in selected areas of importance for
China's long-term economic and social development.
3.7       Table 3.1 presents the number of laboratories and the number of
individual research topics falling in each of the 10 fields covered by the
project (para. 3.1). About one-fourth of the laboratories and the research
topics are in fields broadly character;.ed as machinery and electronics.
The remainder are more evenly spread, 'th more attention given to
environment and geo-engineering, and basic sciences, and relatively less to
biotechnology and health and pharmaceuticals. The distribution of SKLs and
SLs among the fields is shown in Figure 3.1. A discussion of the
contribution of the work of individual laboratories to China's economic and
social development, prepared by SPC, is presented in Annex 3.
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH
TOPICS AMONG SCIENTIFIC FIELDS
Number of        Number of
Field                                      Laboratories   Research ToRics
1.  Energy                                          11              37
2.  Transportation and communication                 10             31
3.  Raw and processed materials                     13              41
4.  Machinery and electronics                        34            135
5.  Agriculture                                     10              22
6.  Biotechnology                                     6             36
7.  New materials                                   12              60
8.  Health and pharmaceuticals                        3             17
9.  Environment and geo-engineering                 17              80
10. Basic science                                   17              62
Total                   1               521
Source: Mission data.



- 18 -
Figure 3.1
of Labs
100
80-_
40
20                                                         t
0                          E
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10
Distribution of Research Topics Among SKLs and SLs
_ SKL   inSL
Note: Number corresponds to field Identified in Table 3.1
3.8       The current and projected number of researchers in project
laboratories is shown in Table 3.2 on page 19. On average, SKLs have about
80 researchers. SLs tend to be smaller, with 65 researchers on average.
Project laboratories already play an important role in educating graduate
students. Collectively, the laboratories have abeut 2,000
faculty/researchers authorized to supervise master and doctoral students.
Table 3.3 on page 20 presents data for prevent and projected enrollments,
nationwide as well as for project institutions and laboratories.  Total
enrollments in project SKLs and SLs is not expected to rise. However, a
shift in the ratio of masters to PhDs from about 4:1 to about 3:1 would
occur. The projected steady enrollment in project laboratories is in
contrast with the present policy to reduce graduate enrollments nationwide
by 5S. The Government is thus protecting the levels of enrollment in these
institutions which have been deemed to be of exceptional quality and
designated to conduct research and training in scientific areas of national
importance.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: CURRENT AND PROJECTED NUMBER OF RESEARCHERS'I
IN PROJECT LABORATORIES
1990      1991      1992
SKLs
Universities                   5,625     6,146     6,667
(56 labs)
CAS                             824      1,024     1,239
(19 labs)
SLs
(58 labs)                   3,761     4,282      4,803
Total              10,210    11,452    12,709
aI   "Researchers" includes staff researchers of laboratories as well as
graduate students undertaking research.
3.9       In addition to improving the quality of training and shifting
the ratio of PhDs and Masters toward the former, the investment in SKLs and
SLs would be expected to improve the productivity and quality of work of
laboratories in several ways, addressing many of the issues raised earlier
(paras. 1.24-1.30). Project laboratories would become open to researchers
from other Chinese institutions and technical assistance funds would allow
an increase in collaborative research with foreign researchers.
Utilization rates for expensive equipment would also be increased through
more widespread sharing of equipment among scientists and across
institutions. Movement of researchers would become customary, resulting in
better utilization of skills and more attractive career prospects, and
information exchange would be improved. The investment funds made
available under the project would continue the process of equipping
outstanding laboratories in China, a process that must be both incremental
and continuous, if these laboratories are to continue to remain at the
forefront of research and provide training comparable to that of
universities abroad. To improve communication of research results among
laboratories, and contribute to openness, NSFC has established a journal of
research abstracts that will report on research undertaken in China and
initially will focus on the results of work in project SKLs and SLs.



- 20
Table 3.3: CURRENT AND PROJECTED GRADUATE STUDENT ENROLLMENTS
1988 Enrollments     ___1992 Enrollments
Type of Institution             Masters   Doctorates   Masters   Doctorates
SEdC/Line Ministries/
Provinces
Institutions of Higher         88,300     8,700        74,000      9,500
Education (IHE)
of which IHE in Project        44,200      5,700       39,000      6,555
of which SKLs and SLs in IHE   5,484       1,370        5,300      1,580
Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAS Institutes                  5,428      1,469        4,500      2,,20
of which CAS Institutes         2,689        782        1,629      1,014
in Project
of which CAS SKLs                 501        190          401        214
Pilot Laboratory Management Program (PLMP)
3.10      With grant financing from UNDP, the project will provide special
support to a small group of project laboratories in undertaking
experimental initiatives in the management and administration of scientific
research and graduate education. The main objectives of the component are
to: (a) increase operating efficiency of the pilot labs in key aspects of
laboratory management; and (b) improve the quality of scientific research
and enrich the learning experience in the labs, particularly for graduate
students and post-doctoral researchers. Seven laboratories have been
selected to participate on the basis of their reputations for producing
excellent research and their capacity and willingness to experiment with
new management techniques. The laboratories include two CAS SKLs, three
university SKLs and two university SLs. They are located in different
geographic areas and undertake research in a variety of disciplines. The
pilot labs are listed in Annex 4 and locations are indicated on IBRD Map
No. 21935.
3.11      The key laboratory management areas to be addressed under this
component are technology transfer, internal and external communications,
personnel management, professionalism and staff training, financial
management and laboratory safety. The program would also monitor
implementation of both the open labs program and post-doctoral stations.



- 21 -
The areas to be covered are described in Annex 4. Beginning in 1991
through a series of workshops with Chinese and foreign management
specialists to be coordinated by the NSFC, the directors of the pilot labs
will develop and carry out management plans focusing on priority issues for
their own laboratories in the management areas identified above. In
addition to workshops for managers, special training activities may be
organized for laboratory technicians from the pilot labs and for staff
designated to perform administrative and secretarial work. An initial
planning workshop for the pilot program would be held in spring 1990 and
would be financed by project preparation funds (already approved) from the
UNDP umbrella project CPR/86/003 for which the Bank is the executing
agency. A more detailed description and implementation plan for the
component is included in Annex 4. The program would be expected to
identify measures to improve the efficiency of procurement and increase
personnel mobility within and between laboratories. It would also identify
training needs for support staff and assist in adapting existing courses or
developing new courses to meet these needs. SPC has agreed to support
dissemination of successful programs to other project laboratories and then
nationwide.
National Computer and Network Facility (NCFC)
3.12      The project will support development of a prototype scientific
computing facility that ultimately would be expanded nationwide. The
objective of the component is to facilitate resource sharing among
institutions by establishing an enhanced computational facility linked by a
demonstration network to the computer centers of Beijing and Qinghua
Universities and the Computing Center of CAS. The introduction of the
computational power of a networked mini-supercomputer will allow the
Chinese academic community to work on scientific and technological problems
of a more advanced and complex level than has been possible up to now.
3.13      The strategy for implementing the NCFC is first to construct the
local area networks (LAN) at each participating institution (to be financed
by the Government), and then to establish the NCFC backbone network
connecting the three institutions. The Government is supporting the first
phase because work is already underway, the technology is straightforward,
and high priority is being given to making the LANs operational quickly.
Selection of the advanced scientific computers to be housed in the NCFC
computer center would be undertaken later to permit the most advanced
computer possible to be acquired. Procurement of the computer would be
contingent on successful completion of the network. The proposal for
procurement of the computer would include a full justification of the need
for a computer of the size proposed ani satisfactory arrangements for
managing its use. The proposal would be expected between 1991 and 1993.
It would require the Association's no objection. The project will provide
for development of facilities, equipment and technical assistance. UNDP
will provide grant financing to support technical assistance.
3.14      The CAS has been selected through a competitive peer review
mechanism to establish the computing facility. A national center would be



- 22 -
established to operate the facility and the proposed network. CAS has
completed a detailed proposed implementation plan for the development of
the backbone network. The proposal specifies: (a) cost estimates and
equipment list; (b) configurations of computers and LANs; (c) project
management arrangements; (d) plan for future expansion of computing
resources on the network; (e) plans for future growth to accommodate
changing technology and geographic as well as institutional expansion; and
(f) plans for eventual connection to international academic research
networks such as BITNET.
Program Advisory Group
3.15      This fourth component would establish a Program Advisory Group
(PAG) of nine persons, including both Chinese and foreign experts, to
provide continuing, high quality scientific advice to SEdC and CAS on the
overall direction and progress of implementation in the various components.
The PAG would support the SPC's role in providing guidance to the project
at the policy level as well as help to integrate the implementation
activities of SEdC and CAS. The group would be chaired by a leading
Chinese scientist. The other eight PAG members would be highly qualified
Chinese and international researchers, science educators, arnd laboratory
directors. Draft terms of reference for the FAG are provided in Annex 5.
The PAG would be established within six months of Board approval. The
foreign costs of the PAG would be financed by UNDP.
3.16      Design of the PAG component is built on prior experience in four
education projects2/ with two bodies that played a similar role: the
International Advisory Panel (IAP) and the Chinese Review Commission (CRC).
For each of the four projects, an IAP and CRC were established with
appropriate membership. The groups were separately constituted, but met
together regularly. In each case, the IAP was assisted by an externally-
based secretariat. The role of the IAP extended beyond providing advice to
assisting universities in recruiting foreign specialists and orgarizing
workshops in China. The experience with IAPs has been judged quite
successful but also quite expensive. The Chinese authorities and the Bank
agree that it is no longer necessary to provide external assistance to PAG
in carrying out its functions. Therefore, building on the overall
experience with IAPs and CRCs, several sign.ficant changes have been made
in the structure of the proposed advisory group. First, there is a single
group, with a majority membership from China and a Chinese chairperson.
Second, the secretariat will now be located in China. And finally, the PAG
will concentrate on providing advice and assistance to the agencies
implementing the project. In particular, the PAG would: help to ensure
that SKLs and SLs develop in a sound and well coordinated manner; give
advice to SEdC and CAS concerning the development of scientific research
2/   University Development, Ln. 2021-CHA/Cr. 1167-CHA; Polytechnic/TV
University, Cr. 1411-CHA; Second University Development, Cr. 1551-
CHA; and Provincial Universities, Cr. 1671-CHA.



- 23 -
and graduate education in SKLs and SLs; review the results of PLMP and
assist in developing plans for dissemination of successful interventions;
review the design and operation of the National Computer and Network
Facility; and provide such other advice as requested by the implementing
agencies during project implementation.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
Summary of Costs
4.1       The total cost of the project including contingencies is
estimated at Y1,244.8 million or US$238.5 million equivalent. The
estimated costs by project cJmponent and category of expenditure are
summarized below in Tables 4.1 on page 25 and 4.2 on page 26. Detailed
costs are presented in Annex 7.
Cost Estimates
4.2       Base costs are expressed in mid-1990 prices and grouped into
five categories. Civil works includes construction or expansion of
buildings to house SKLs, SLs and the computer center for the NCFC.
EguiRment includes the purchase of new items as well as spare parts and
maintenance. The books and materials category is broadly defined,
including books and journals, computer software (except that purchased with
computer hardware), patents, instructional audio and videotapes, and page
charges for publishing articles in international journals. Training and
specialist services is the cost of foreign experts, exchange visits and
domestic and overseas training. Graduate education and laboratory
operations includes costs associated with graduate training, as well as
expenditures for consumables, local travel and other program costs of
research and education.
4.3       The bulk of the project costs (97%) are under the laboratory
component. These costs were estimated through the research proposal and
peer review process (para. 3.6 and Annex 2) and based on budgets approved
by SPC for each laboratory. Civil works costs and requirements were
estimated by the laboratories and reviewed by the capital construction
bureau of SEdC or CAS as appropriate. Equipment costs were based on
detailed lists and estimated unit prices of similar imported or locally
available items. The costs of books and educational materials were
estimated by individual laboratories based on their own experience and
knowledge of required items to support research in their particular fields.
The costs of technical assistance and specialist services were estimated
for the laboratory component by lab directors based on previous experience.
For the PLMP, NCFC and project advisory mechanism components, technical
assistance was costed according to UNDP budgetary guidelines. Costs for
graduate education and laboratory operations were estimated by individual
researchers and laboratory directors. Under the laboratory component, the
average estimated total base cost per laboratory in all expenditure
categories was US$1.42 million, of which about 57% was foreign cost (Annex
7, Table 3). Project-financed goods will be exempted from import duties
and taxes.



- 25 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS-I BY COMPONENT
(in Mid-1990 Prices)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total Foreign
----- Y Million -----   --- US$ Million ----
Laboratory Component   427.0   555.6    982.6   81.8  106.4   188.2         57
Pilot Laboratory          0.3      4.3      4.5    0.1    0.8       0.9     89
Management Program
National Computer and    5.3    22.4       27.8    1.0    4.3       5.3     81
Network Facility
Program Advisory          0.1      3.3      3.4    0.0    0.6       0.6    100
Mechanism
Total Base Cost      432.7   585.6  1.018.3   829  112.2   195.1         57
Physical Contingencies  35.5    48.0       83.5    6.8    9.2    16.0       58
Price Contingencies      83.5    59.5    143.0   16.0   11.4    27.4        42
Total Project Cost  551.7   693.1  1.244.8  105L7   32.8   238.5         56
a/ Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
Contingencies
4.4       Physical contingencies represent 8% of base costs.  Price
contingencies were estimated on the basis of 1990 costs and the
implementation schedule in Annex 7 and expected annual price increases as
follows: local costs - 10.0% for 1991, 8.0% for 1992 and 5.0% thereafter;
foreign - 9.0% for 1991, 1.1% for 1992 and 2.95% thereafter. Total
contingencies are estimated at about 22% of base costs. The project cost
includes the indirect cost of import duties and taxes on materials for
locally manufactured equipment, which have not been identified separately
because the amount is negligible.
4.5       In addition to the calculation of contingencies according to the
Bank's operational guidelines, project costing includes an unallocated
amount of about US$0.5 million in the base costs of the laboratory
component. These funds would be designated for SEdC and CAS to apportion
as needs arise during implementation. Such needs might include training



- 26 -
for project implementation staff, unexpected equipment needs, or speci4l
studies. Draft guidelines for the use of these funds (Annex 10) were
agreed at negotiations.
Foreign Exchange Costs
4.6       Foreign exchange costs are estimated at about Y693.1 million
(US$132.8 million equivalent). Based on an analysis of expenditures of
other projects in China and the implementation and counterpart funding
arrangements for the project, the foreign exchange component for the major
categories of the proposed project was estimated as follows: (a) civil
works 0%; (b) equipment 75% (based on an assessment of locally available
items and sophisticated items that would need to be imported); (c) books
and educational materials 63%; (d) training and specialist services 72%;
and (e) graduate education and laboratory operations 2%.
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS" BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(in Hid-1990 Prices)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Foreign
- ---- Y Million -----   --- US$ Million ----
Civil Works             92.6      0.0      92.6    17.7    0.0    17.7       0
Equipment              166.5    511.9    678.3    31.9   98.1   130.0       75
Books and Educ           7.4     12.3      19.6     1.4    2.4      3.8     63
Materials
Training and            22.9     58.1      81.0     4.4   11.1    15.5      72
Specialist Svcs
Graduate Educ and      143.6      3.3    146.8    27.5    0.6    28.1        2
Lab Operations
Total Base Cost    433.0    585.6  1.018.3    82.j  112.2   195.1        58
Physical Contingencies 35.5      48.0      83.5     6.8    9.2    16.0      58
Price Contingencies    83.5      59.5    143.0    16.0   11.4    27.4       42
Total Project Cost 552.0    693.1  1.244.8   105.7  132.8   238.5        56
LI Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 27 -
B. Financing
Investment Costs
4.7       Bank Group financing would be an IDA Credit of SDR 92.9 million
(US$131.2 million equivalent) which would cover 55% of the total investment
costs of US$238.5 million equivalent. UNDP is expected to finance US$1.6
million of training and technical assistance costs. The counterpart
funding required would be US$105.8 million equivalent (44% of total project
costs). Of this amount, approximately 75% would be provided by SEdC, 20%
by CAS and the remaining 5% by line ministries and local governments.
Agreements have been reached with all participating laboratories and with
their sponsoring agencies to make available the required counterpart
funding for civil works (100%), locally procured equipment (27% of total
equipment), graduate education (98%) and other costs that would be financed
locally (Table 4.3 on page 29). Credit funds of about SDR 90.3 million,
equivalent to US$127.3 million, would be passed on to universities and
research institutes through SEdC and CAS at an interest rate of 1.5% per
year, repayable over a period of 15 years, including a five-year grace
period.   The remaining funds equivalent to US$5.5 million would be onlent
directly to SEdC and CAS on the same terms. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the repaying institutions.   At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that Credit proceeds would be made available to project
laboratories through SEdC or CAS on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Financing Ongoing Research Costs
4.8       All agencies participating in project implementation (SEdC, CAS,
line ministries, a provincial government, NSFC) have agreed to supply all
required counterpart investment and training funds (para. 4.7). The
situation regarding financing of research costs is less clear. This is
necessarily so because of the Government's policy of devolving to
laboratories responsibility for finding their own funding (para. 1.21).
The research proposals presented to SPC as part of the laboratory proposals
have already been peer reviewed and, in principle, should be financed by
the project. However, the Government has not agreed that project funds
should cover the full research costs. It is also clear that the facilities
being constructed using project funds will be able to support additional
research efforts beyond those contained in project proposals. Therefore,
it becomes important to examine the issue of availability of funds for
covering research costs, outside the project.
4.9       A mission survey of budgets of 43 representative project
laboratories compiled information on sources of research funds. Three
central sources, NSFC, SSTC and SPC, accounted for about 42% of research
funds. Another 36% came from sponsoring agencies (SEdC, CAS, line
ministries). Smaller amounts come from the individual universities, local
governments, and industry. Laboratory directors and scientists report that
the financial resources available to individual laboratories are not fully
adequate to allow efficient use of both instruments and trained scientists.



- 28 -
SPC expects that, becauso project financed laboratories will have better
equipment and better trained scientists they will qualify for additional
funding in competition both domestically and overseas for research grants.
Agreement was reached that the adequacy of funds for research would be
monitored on a laboratory by laboratory basis. Indicators would be
developed for this purpose and reviewed annually by PAG. PAG would be
expected to immediately call to the attention of SPC, SEdC and CAS as
appropriate any shortfalls found to occur. If insufficiency of funds
results from the inability of the lab to qualify for funds available
competitively, SPC or SEdC as appropriate would institute measures to
correct the situation. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the availability of research funds of the laboratories assisted under
the project would be monitored in accordance with indicators acceptable to
the association; and (b) if it is determined that there is a shortfall, the
causes would be identified and appropriate measures taken to address the
causes.
Cofinancing
4.10      The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has indicated
its willingness to provide a grant equivalent to US$1.6 million to finance
the full foreign costs of the PIMP and PAG components and a portior, of the
technical assistance (US$0.08 million equivalent) for the NCFC component of
the project. A formal request f.oPr financing and proposal for
implementation has been prepared and submitted to the UNDP. The
Government, the Bank and UNDP have agreed that the Government would be the
executing agency for the grant. If the UNDP grant does not become
available, the Government will finance the required activities.
Table 4 3: FINANCING PLAN
Government   IDA    UNDP   Total    IDA
---------- US$ million ---     -- Financing
Civil works                            21.7      0.0    0.0    21.7        0
Equipment                              42.8    115.9    0.2   158.9      73
Books & educational materials           1.8      2.8    0.0      4.6      61
Training and specialist services        5.8     11.8    1.4    19.0      62
Graduate education and laboratory    33.7        0.7    0.0    34.4       2
operations
Total Project Costs               105.8    131.2    1.6   238.6       55
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 29 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
Laboratory Component
5.1       The SEdC has formed a Leading Group to coordinate development of
university laboratories. The Group is headed by a Vice Chairman of SEdC
and comprises representatives of SEdC departments of foreign investment and
loans (FILO), finance, higher education, construction and equipment, and
science and technology. In addition, an inter-departmental Working Team
has been established to carry out administration. The team's main
functions will be to: (a) prepare written procedures for project
implementation; (b) coordinate and assist the universities in procurement
and staff development; and (c) coordinate project reporting and monitoring.
With respect to the project laboratories being established in universities
other than those directly under SEdC, the team will liaise with the line
ministries and provincial governments concerned. SEdC has asked each
participating university to establish a project implementation office to
assist project laboratories.  In about two-thirds of the universities, such
offices already exist for implementation of the Bank-supported university
development projects.
5.2       In CAS, under the auspices of a Leading Group for the project,
the Office of External Financing (OEF) of the International Cooperation
Bureau will be primarily responsible for implementation and for
coordinating the activities of various departments. The planning bureau
will oversee procurement. The capital construction bureau will oversee
civil works. The bureau of education will help to arrange domestic
training and staff development activities. The bureau of international
cooperation will assist with international exchange visits.
Academic/scientific bureaus of CAS (e.g., Biology, Mathematics and Physics)
will provide guidance as necessary on specific research proposals. At the
institute level, the deputy director concerned will have chief
responsibility in formation of the lab. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that FILO and OEF will be designated and maintained as the project
implementation units throughout project implementation.
Pilot Laboratory Management Program
5.3       The National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) would be
responsible for management of the PLMP. This would include planning
activities and coordinating technical assistance shared by more than one
laboratory, maintaining contact with pilot laboratory directors, monitoring
the progress of programs, and reporting to SEdC, CAS, SPC, UNDP and the
World Bank. A small unit within NSFC would be established to handle these
tasks.



- 30 -
National Computer and Network Facility of China
5.4       Management of the NCFC will be carried out under the direction
of SPC by three bodies operating at different levels of generality. A
Management Committee, headed by a vice president of CAS, and including
representatives from SPC, SEdC, CAS, NSFC and Beijing and Qinghua
Universities, will be responsible mainly for strategic management and broad
policy guidelines. An Academic Committee of experts from CAS and the two
universities, NSFC, and the Ministry of Communications, including
prospective users of the NCFC, will be responsible for technical issues.
The Network Center will be responsible for day-to-day management of the
NCFC.
Program Advisory Group
5.5       The PAG would be organized and administered by SEdC.  FILO would
serve as the secretariat for PAG and would take major responsibility for
recruitment of the Chinese members. Recruitment of the international
members would begin shortly after Board approval of the project according
to procedures agreed with UNDP end .'EdC. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the PAG will be established and maintained throughout
project implementation according to selection procedures and terms of
reference agreed with the Association.
B. Annual Reporting and Evaluation
Annual Reporting
5.6       To provide effective monitoring and evaluation, SEdC, on behalf
of the entire project, will assemble data on project implementation and
submit an annual report to the Association, the PAG, UNDP as well as other
related agencies. Data on laboratories would be collected by SEdC and CAS.
NSFC would report on the PLMP, and the CAS Computer Center would provide an
assessment of progress on the NCFC. The annual report is expected to
include (a) a description of the project status and plans for the coming
year; (b) reports on the PLMP and NCFC; (c) data on expenditures at
individual laboratories; and (d) indicators of progress in laboratory
"construction" or formation, equipment utilization, availability of funds
for research, and degree of openness (para. 1.11). The format of the
annual progress report is included in Annex 6. Progress on the key
indicators of equipment utilization, availability of research funds, and
openness would be reviewed by the PAG annually. A mid-term review of
project implementation would be held in mid-1993 with representatives from
SPC, SEdC, CAS, NSFC, PAG, NCFC, UNDP and the Association. It is expected
that, beginning in August 1992, SEdC would provide to the Association for
review and comment an annual progress report on project implementation in
accordance with indicators and a schedule accpetable to the Association.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a mid-term review of
project implementation would be held in mid-1993.



- 31 -
Evaluation
5.7       Two types of evaluation would be conducted at the end of the
project:  (a) accreditation of SfLs; and (b) overall assessment of
outcomes. Accreditation, which would measure candidate SKLs within the
project against established standards, would be carried out by CAS and SEdC
or responsible ministries entrusted by SPC in the same manner as for all
other candidate SKLs (in particular, the 63 SKLs already established and
not included in the project). Outcome assessment would use a set of
indicators to draw conclusions about the appropriateness and cost-
effectiveness of various investments made by the project. It would focus
on measuring improvements within individual laboratories that result from
inputs and activities funded by the project and undertaken between 1990 and
1993. Among the outcomes to be measured are: (a) number and
qualifications of graduate students trained; (b) increased participation of
women in graduate training and faculty staff upgrading; (c) capacity to
conduct high quality research; (d) openness of the laboratory to outside
scientists, both Chinese and foreign; and (e) efficiency of utilization of
equipment. In-depth monitoring in these areas in the first year of the
project would be for pilot laboratories only. After trial and
modification, this monitoring would be expanded to other project labs. The
degree of change is expected to vary greatly among laboratories because at
the start of the project some labs will already be more firmly established
or producing a higher quality of research and better trained scientists
than others. SEdC and CAS would collect data for the evaluation, using a
combination of quantitative statistical analysis and qualitative review by
experts in undertaking both accreditation and impact assessment.
5.8       Responsibility for preparing the project completion report would
rest with SEdC in consultation with the PAG. SEdC would compile
informatinn from laboratories under its jurisdiction, and from CAS, NSFC
and NCFC. The report would be submitted to the Association within six
months of the closing date (June 30, 1996).
C. Project Implementation
Status of Proiect Preparation
5.9       Project preparation is well-advanced.  Each SKL and SL
participating in the project has prepared a detailed proposal and budget
which has been reviewed by teams of Chinese experts and formally approved
by SEdC or CAS and SPC. Detailed equipment lists have been compiled for
the laboratory component. The seven pilot laboratories have been
identified and held an initial planning meeting in November 1989. SPC,
SEdC, CAS and the Association have agreed in principle to the terms of
reference for the PAG and the Government is beginning the identification of
Chinese members. The project proposal has been approved by UNDP/Beijing
and is being forwarded to New York for final approval.



- 32 -
Prolect Implementation Schedule
5.10      The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 11.  All
civil works included in the project would be procured by standard
government procedures and completed by mid-1993. Procurement of equipment
would be phased and all major contracts are expected to be awarded by mid-
1993. Direct purchase of books and educational materials are expected to
be carried out during mid-1991 through 1994. Overseas training would take
place from 1991 through 1994. Local training would be conducted throughout
project implementation. Within six months after the Closing Date, SEdC
would submit a project completion report to the Association.
D. Procurement
5.11      The main items to be procured are: (a) equipment; (b) books and
educational materials; (c) training and specialist services; and (d) items
and services for graduate education and laboratory operations. Most of the
equipment and materials to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit
would be procured following ICB procedures. Some specialized items, spare
parts, books and educational materials would be purchased through
international shopping. SEdC and CAS would each coordinate and assist
their respective laboratories in procurement. For ICB, SEdC and CAS would
use the services of the International Tendering Company or another
government agency suitable to the Association. For other procurement, CAS
wouid use the Oriental Scientific Instrument Import Export Corporation
(OSIC), an experienced procurement agency within its organization. The
appraisal mission reviewed the legal status of OSIC and its capacity to
handle the procurement tasks assigned to it, and found OSIC to poss ss the
required experience and capabilities.
Eauipment
5.12      Equipment and materials, with an estimated value of about
US$92.1 million (70% of the Credit amount) would be procured through ICB.
Scientific research equipment, which must conform to specific functional
parameters and specialized requirements of individual research activities,
would be procured following a two-step procedure. This procedure,
described in Annex 9, is designed to accommodate the special nature of the
instruments intended to be procured under the project, providing tne
flexibility needed for scientists to acquire items conforming to the exact
specifications required for individual research activities, and at the same
time retaining competition to meet the objectives of procurement under ICB.
Under all ICB procedures, local manufacturers would be permitted to
participate, where appropriate, and would be eligible for a 15% margin of
preference or prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in evaluation
of bids. A limited number of highly specialized instruments, spare parts,
and instruments where standardization is warranted, would be procured
through LIB or international shopping, as appropriate. Specifically, goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate not tc exceed the equivalent of US$12.5 million may be



- 33 -
procured under contracts awarded through LIB; proprietary items, spare
parts, auxiliary equipment and accessories, and goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$25,000 per contract up to an aggregate not
to exceed the equivalent of US$1.5 million, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of prices from at least three suppliers;
items needed for standardization, or of a highly specialized nature, up to
an aggregate of US$11.5 million may be procured through international
shopping in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.13      Technical support services (TSS) would be included in the
bidding and contracts from suppliers for an agreed list of major items
(computers and sophisticated research equipment) to be procured under the
project. Such services, which would be for an extended period beyond the
usual warranty, would include stocking of spare parts, services of
expatriate maintenance experts as and when required, and training of
Chinese scientists and engineers in the operation and maintenance of the
equipment or instruments. SEdC and CAS would identify the equipment
requiring technical support services and discuss and agree on the list with
the Association before initiating the procurement process. TSS would be
procured as an associated service at the time of equipment purchase.
Books and Educational Materials
5.14      Books and educational materials estimated to cost US$4.6 million
equivalent, including inter alia computer software, patents and page
charges for publication of research papers in international journals, would
be procured through international shopping and, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$3 million equivalent, would be procured on the basis of
comparison of prices from at least three suppliers or through direct
purchase.
Technical Assistance
5.15      Each laboratory will arrange its own technical assistance under
the Research and Training component subject to regulations of SEdC and CAS
respectively (Annex 8). Each project lab will make its own contacts with
overseas labs and will arrange exchanges and visits for scholarly work, and
any other training mutually agreed upon. These exchanges and training
programs will be carried out by laboratories using existing CAS and SEdC
procedures. Estimated numbers of persons and months for the laboratory
component are shown in Table 5.1 on page 34. Arrangements for procuring
expert services under the other three components (Pilot Laboratory
Management Program, National Computer and Network Facility, and Program
Advisory Group) would follow procedures agreed with UNDP.



- 34 -
Table 5.1 TRAINING AND SPECIALIST SERVICES
L(ZORATORY COMPONENT
Fellowships     Scientific Exchange       Specialists
Total              Total           Total
Number   Months    Number   Months           Months
SY.>
University        200    1,600      280        420             90
CAS              756    1,185       630      1,050            135
SLs
University        130    1,040      170        255             80
Total     1,086    3,825    1,080       1,725           305
Graduate Education and Laboratory ODerations
5.16      Consumables, travel and other items and services needed to
support graduate education and laboratory operations, which are estimated
to cost US$28.1 million equivalent, are predominantly local costs and would
be financed by the Government and procured locally except for special
chemicals and other imported consumables which would normally be of small
value, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million, and would be procured
following procedures outlined in para. 5.12. The procurement arrangements
to be used for the above categories are summarized in Table 5.2 on page 35.



- 35 -
Table 5.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement method             Total
Category of Expenditure            ICB         LCB       Other         cost',
(US$ million)
Civil Works                                               21.7         21.7
Equipment                           92.1        --        101.2       193.3
(92.1)                 (24.5)     (116.6)
Books & educational materials         --        --         4.6          4.6
(2.8)       (2.8)
Training and specialist services    --          --         19.0        19.0
(11.8)      (11.8)
Total                          92.1         --       146.5         238.6
(92.1)                 (39.1)      (131.2)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the prospective amounts financed by
the Bank Group.
at   Totals represent total estimated costs per category including price
and physical contingencies.
Bank Review
5.17      All goods contracts of an estimated value of US$200,000 or more
would be subject to prior review by the Association. All other contracts
would be subject to ex-post review by the Association.
E. Disbursements
5.18      The proposed Credit of US$131.2 million would be disbursed over
a period of about four years (Table 5.3 on page 36). The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1995. Disbursements will be made
against the following categories of expenditures: (a) equipment, books,
and educational materials - 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% of local expenditures for other



- 36 -
items procured locally; (b) training and fellowships, incldding overseas
study tours--100% of total expenditures; (c) specialist services--100% of
foreign expenditures; and (d) graduate education and laboratory operations-
-100% of foreign expenditures. It is expected that the Credit would
disburse quicker than other China education loans/credits because all major
contracts, most of them already well prepared, are scheduled to be awarded
by mid-1993.
Table 5.3: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Disbursement
IDA                  Disbursement          Cumulative    profile (%)
fiscal year         Semester   Cumulative       as % of      rhina education
and semester        --- (US$ million) ---        total           projects
FY91
2nd                10.0        10.0            8                 8
FY92
1st                40.0        50.0           38                16
2nd                15.0        65.0           50                33
FY93
1st                50.2       115.2           88                49
2nd                 6.0       121.2           92                62
FY94
1st                 6.0       127.2           97                70
2nd                 2.0       129.2           98                76
FY95
1st                 1.0       130.2           99                83
2nd                 1.0       131.2          100                90
FY96
1st                 -         131.2          100                94
2nd                 -         131.2          100               100
Closing Date:  June 30, 1996



- 37 -
Doc-umentation of ExRenditures
5.19      Withdrawal applications for goods and services with a contract
value of US$200,000 or more will be supported by full documentation. Other
disbursements against contracts, each valued at less than US$200,000, and
programs not undertaken by contract such as overseas fellowships would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). SEdC and CAS will be
responsible for preparing withdrawal applications for submission to the
Association. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications will be
aggregated in amounts of US$500,000 or more, prior to submission to the
Association.
Special Accounts
5.20      To facilitate disbursements, the project would have two special
accounts. One would be used for CAS expenditures, including NCFC, and the
other would be for SEdC laboratories and remaining expenditures. The
accounts would be established in a bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and maintained in U.S. dollars with an
authorized allocation of $8 million for the SEdC account and $2 million for
the CAS account, each to cover expected eligible expenditures during any
four-month period. Applications for replenishment of each account would be
sent monthly from FILO or OEF reflecting disbursements from the Special
Account for agreed expenditures, or when the remaining balance to the
account is reduced below 50% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.21      Project accounts and details of the Special Accounts would be
maintained by SEdC and CAS. Accounts and documentation supporting
statements of expenditure will be maintained separately and will be readily
available in SEdC and/or CAS for review by visiting Bank missions.
Accounts and statements of expenditure for each fiscal year will be
prepared by FILO and OEF, consolidated by FILO and audited by the Audit
Administration of the People's Republic of China (MAPRC). A single annual
audit report prepared by AAPRC with separate opinions on the SOEs would be
submitted to the Association within eight months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.



- 38 -
VI. PROJECT OUTCOMES. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Outcomes
6.1       By project completion in 1995, it is expected that:
(a) The physical infrastructure of 133 major scientific
laboratories around China will have been significantly
upgraded through the acquisition of state-of-the-art
scientific equipment, updated libraries and other
infrastructure improvements.
(b) Practical low-cost approaches to the improvement of
research management and laboratory administration will have
been developed and tested in seven key laboratories and a
significant start made in introducing similar measures in
other SKL and SL laboratories.
(c) An advanced scientific computing facility will be
functioning and a prototype computer network will connect
three leading scientific research centers in Beijing,
providing greatly enhanced computational capacity and
expanded opportunities for cooperative research and
exchange of data among the three institutions.
(d) A fully detailed technical plan and organizational
structure will have been prepared for the expansion of the
prototype network into a National Computer and Network
Facility.
(e) A large number of Chinese scientists will have been
provided with additional education and research experience
in China and abroad, and international contacts will have
expanded through study tours and international exchange
programs.
B. Benefits
6.2       The immediate beneficiaries of the project will be Chinese
science students and researchers at the master, doctoral and post-doctoral
levels, who will be provided with the necessary inputs to utilize their
talents fully and upgrade the quality of their research. The research
laboratories included in the project will benefit through better equipment
and better managed research programs. Given the vital long-term link
between scientific research and social and economic development, the
general Chinese population will benefit from the application of research
results in industry, agriculture, health care and other important sectors
over the long term.



- 39 -
SRecial Considerations
6.3       Evironment.  Research and training aimed at better
understanding and addressing environmental issues of national or
international significance is the focus of 17 of the 133 laboratories (138)
to be supported under the project. CAS will establish an SKL in
environmental geochemistry. Several higher education institutions are
jointly establishing SKLs in Beijing and Nanjing to study pollution control
measures. In geo-engineering, research areas of key labs will include,
among others, atmospheric physics and river mouth sedimentation. Three
laboratories will carry out research o- natural disasters, and two
laboratories in northwestern China will study soil erosion and agricultural
development of arid regions.
6.4       Particination of Women.  Women scientists play an increasingly
important role in China both as researchers and managers of science
facilities. At the present time, about 25% of scientists and technical
personnel are women. The project is expected to markedly increase career
opportunities for women. In order to ensure the project's impact on a
satisfactory participation of women, the share of women in graduate
training and career de-elopment will be specifically monitored.
C. Risks
6.5       The project faces two risks.  First, difficulties in managing
the project may arise, given its complexity. The project includes a large
number of laboratories which conduct research in many diverse fields, and
several different implementing agencies. However, this risk can be
mitigated by means of strong project leadership and coordination, which the
Government recognizes and has agreed to furnish. Staffing and structure of
the major implementing agencies have been agreed and a project steering
committee has been appointed to provide oversight. The second risk arises
because the competitive mechanisms that will be used to allocate research
funds to individual laboratories is newly established, and may not function
as expected to provide sufficient research funds to project laboratories.
This risk would be mitigated by the project's proposed improvement of the
mechanism for monitoring the availability of research funds, and by the
agreement of the Government to take appropriate action when necessary.



- 40 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Assurances were obtained that:
a)   the Government would make the proceeds of the Credit
available to respective laboratories through SEdC or CAS on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para.
4.7);
b)   (i)  the availability of research funds for individual
laboratories would be monitored in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Associe.tion; and
(ii) when it is found that a laboratory has insufficient
funds, the causes would be identified and appropriate
measures taken to address the causes (para. 4.9);
c)   the Foreign Investmant Loan Office of SEdC and the External
Financing Office of CAS would be designated and maintained
as the project implementation urits for their respective
parts of the project throughout project implementation
(para. 5.2);
d)   a Program Advisory Group (PAG) would be established
according to selection procedures and terms of reference
agreed with the Association and maintained throughout
project implementation (para. 5.5); and
e)   a mid-term review of irnplementation progress will be
conducted in mid-1993 with representatives of the
Association, UNDP, SPC, SEdC, CAS, NSFC, PAG and NCFC
(para. 5.6).
7.2       Subject to the above conditions the Key Studies Development
Project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 92.9
million (US$131.2 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with 35 years
maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



- 41 -
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Laboratories
Annex 2: Research Proposal and Peer Review Process
Annex 3: Significance of Project-Supported Research for China's
Economic and Social Development
Annex 4: Pilot Laboratory Management Program
Annex 5: Terms of Reference for Program Advisory Group
Annex 6: Annual Reporting
Annex 7: Project Costs
Annex 8: Guidelines for the Use of Technical Assistance Funds for
the Laboratory Component
Annex 9: Outline of Proposed Special ICB Procedures
Annex 10: Draft Guidelines for Use of Discretionary Funds
Annex 11: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 12: Selected Documents and Data in Project File
CHART
Chart 1: Project Management Structure



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA
Key Studies Develonment Proiect
Project Laboratories 1/
Institution
Lab No.     Lab Name                                       Research Field           City and Province
Al       Shanxi institute of Coal Chemistry                Energy                   Taiyuan, Shanxl
Coal Conversion S&T
A2       Lanzhou Institute of Chemical Physlis             Raw Materials            Lanzhou, Gansu
Carbonyl Compounds & Selective Oxidation
A3       Shenyang Institute of Metal Research              New Materials            Shenyang. Liaoning
Quiclk-solidifying Non-equilibrium Alloys
A4       Institute of Chemistry                            New Materials            Beijing
Engineering Plastics
A5       Shanghai Institute of Metallurgy                  New Materials            Shanghai
Information Functional Materials
A6      Institute of Physics                               New Materials            Beijing
Magnetics arid Magnetic Materials
A7       Shanghai Institute of Ceramics                    New Materials            Shanghai
High Performance Ceramics and Ultramicrostructure
A8       Xian Institute of Optics and Precision Mechanics  Electronics              Xian, Shaanxi
Transient Optical Techniques
A9       Chengdu Institute of Optics and Electronics       Mechanics                Chengdu, Sichuan
Fine Processing Optic Techniques
AlO      Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica              Pharmacology             Shanghai
New Medicine Research
All     Institute of Genetics                              Agriculture              Beijing
Plant Cell and Chromosone Engineering
A12      Institute of Zoology                              Agriculture              Beijing
Comprehensive Treatment of Rodents and Pests
A13     Institute of Chemical Metallurgy                   Blo-engineering          Beijing
Bio-chemical Engineering
A14      Northwestern Institute of Soil and Water Conservation  Agriculture         Yangling, Shaanxi
Loess Plateau Soil Erosion and Arld-land Farming
Al5     Institute of Microbiology                          Bio-engineering          Beijing
Initial Development of Microbe Resources
A16      Institute of Atmospheric Physics                  Environment              Beijing
Boundary Layer Physics and Atmospheric Chemistry
A17      China University of Science and Technology        Calamity Prev/Cont       Hefei, Anhul
Research of Fire Disasters
A18      Institute of Geochemistry                         Environment              Gulyang, Guizhou
Environmental Geochemistry
A19      Computer Center                                   Computer Science         Beijing
Sclence and Engineering Calculations
A20      Beijing University                                Prev&CureJDisasters      Beijing
Rainstorm Monitoring and Prediction
A21      Belilng University                                Raw Materials            Beijing
Rare Earths Chemistry and Applications
1/ Each laboratory Is affiliated either with a research institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) or a university
under the auspices of the State Education Commission (SEdC), a line ministry, or, in one case, a province. Laboratories
of CAS are A1-A19 In the above list. The participation of all other laboratories In universities Is being coordinated by SEdC.



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Institution
Lab No.     Lab Names                                      Research Field            City and Province
A22      Beijing University                                 Computer                 Beijing
Word Processing
A23      Beijing University                                 Communication            Beljing
Zone Optic Communications Network and Coherent Optic Fiber Communications
A23      Shanghai Jlaotong University                       Communication            Shanghai
Zone Optic Communications Network and Coherent Optic Fiber Communications
A24      Beijing University                                 Basic Science            Beijing
Turbulent Flows
A25      Qinghua University                                 Energy Resource          Beijing
Coal High Efficlency. Low Pollution Burning Techniques
A26      Oinghua University                                 Energy Resouce           Beijing
Power System and Large Generation Equipment Safety Control
A27      Oinghua University                                Communication             Beijing
Microwave and Digital Communications
A28      Qinghua University                                Transportation            Beijing
Automotive Safety and Energy Conservation
A29      Qinghua University                                 Machinery                Beijing
Precision Testing
A29      Tianjin University                                 Machinery                Tianjin
Precision Testing
A30      Qinghua University                                 New Materials            Beijing
New Ceramics and Refined Technologies
A31      Oinghua University                                 Chemical Engineering     Beijing
Monocarbide Chemical Engineering
A31      Tianjin University                                Chemical Engineering      Tianjin
Monocarbide Chemical Engineering
A32      Nankai University                                 New Materials             Tianjin
Absorption Separation Functions of High Polymers
A33      Dalian University of Technology                   Chemical Engineering      Dalian. Liaoning
Refined Synthesis of Dyes and Surface Active Agents
A34      Dalian University of Technology                   Basic Science             Dalian, Liaoning
Analysis of Industrial Equipment Strucuture
A35      Jilin University                                   New Materials            Changchun, Jilin
Ultra-hard Materials
A36      Jilin University                                   Basic Science            Changchun. Jilin
Computations In Theoretical Chemistry
A37      Shanghai Jiaotong University                      Machinery                 Shanghai
Vibration, Percussion and Noise
A38      Fudan University                                   Electronic Engineering   Shanghai
Special ICs and Systems
A39      Tongjl University                                  Environment Science      Shanghai
Pollution Control and Its Conversion Into Resources
A39      Nanjing University                                 Environment Science      Nanjing, Jiangsu
Pollution Control and Its Conversion Into Resources
A40      Tongji University                                  Raw Materials            Shanghai
Study of Cement Materials
A41      East China University of Chemical Technology      Organisms                 Shanghai
Biological Reactors



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
Institution
Lab No.     Lab Names                                       Research Field           City and Province
A42      East China Normal University                      Geology                   Shanghai
River Mouth and Coastal Power Sedimentation
A43      Nanjing University                                Geology                   Nanjing, Jlangsu
Endogenic Ore Deposit Metallogeny
A44      Nanjing University                                 Medicine                 Nanjing, Jiangsu
Bio-medical Techniques
A45      Nanjing University                                 Basic Science            Nanjing, Jiangsu
Modern Acoustics
A46      Southeast University                              Communication             Nanjing, Jiangsu
Mobile and Multi-station Wireless Communications
A47      Zhejiang University                               Machinery                 Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Fluid Transmission and Control
A48      Zhejiang University                               Automatic Control         Hangzhou, Zheilang
Industrial Control Techniques
A49      Zhejiang University                                Machinery                Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Modern Optical Instruments
A50      Shandong University                                Biochemistry             Jinan, Shandong
Fermentation Engineering
A51      Huazhong University of Science and Technology     Machinery                 Wuhan. Hubei
Plastic Shaping Simulation and Techniques for Molds
A52      Zhongshan University                              Agriculture               Guangzhou, Guangdong
Biological Prevention and Control
A53      South China University of Techrology               Raw Materials            Guangzhou, Guangdong
Pulp and Paper Making
A54      Chengdu University of Science and Technology       Raw Materials            Chengdu, Sichuan
Hlgh Polymer Materials Engineering
A55      Xian Jiaotong University                          Energy Resources          Xian, Shaanxi
Power Equipment and Electric Insulation
A56      Xian Jiaotong University                          Raw Materials             Xian, Shaanxi
Metal Strength
A57      Xian Jiaotong University                          Machinery                XVan, Shaanxi
Machine-building System Engineering
A58      Lanzhou University                                 Agriculture              Lanzhou, Gansu
Arid Farming Ecology
A59      Southwest Petroleum Institute                      Energy Resources         Chengdu, Sichuan
Geo:ogy and Development of Oil and Gas Deposits
A59      Chengdu College of Geology                         Energy Resources         Chengdu, Sichuan
Geology and Development of Oil and Gas Deposits
A60      Southwestern Jlaotong University                  Transportation            Chengdu, Sichuan
Tractive Dynamics
A61      Beijing Institute of Technology                    Prev&Cure/Disasters      Beijing
Prevention and Control of Explosion Disasters
A62      Xidian University                                 Communication             Xian, Shaanxi
Comprehensive Operational Network
A63      University of Electronic Science and Technology of China  Communication     Chengdu, Sichuan
Wide-band Optic Fiber Communications
A64      Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics  Computer                Beijing
Environment for Software Development



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Institution
Lab No.     Lab Names                                      Research Field           City and Province
A65      Harbin institute of Technology                    Machinery                Harbin, Heilong]iang
Modern Welding Production Techniques
A66      Northwest Polytechnic University                  Machinery                Xian. Shaanxi
Solidification Techniques
A67      Beijing University of Science and Technology      New Materials            Beling
New Metallic Materials
A68      Northeast University of Technology                Machinery                Shenyang, Liaoning
Rolling and Continuous Rolling Automation
A69      China Textile University                          Raw Materials            Shanghai
Modification of Fiber Materials
A70      Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications  Communication          Beijing
Program-controlled Exchange and Communications Networks
A71      Wuhan Technical University of Surveying and Mapping  Geology               Wuhan, Hubei
Remote Sensing Data Engineering for Survey and Mapping
A72      Central South University of Technology            New Materials            Changsha, Hunan
Powder Metallurgy
A73      University of Petroleum                           Raw Materials            Beijing
Heavy Oil Processing
A74      Qinghua University                                Environment Science      Beijing
Environment Simulation and Pollution Control
A74      Research Center for Eco-environmental Sciences    Environment Science      Beijing
Environment Simulation and Pollution Control
A74      Beijing University                                Environment Science      Beijing
Environment Simulation and Pollution Control
A74      Beijing Normal University                         Environment Science      Beijing
Environment Simulation and Pollution Control
A75      Jilin University of Technology                    Transportation           Changchun, Jilin
Simulation of Automotive Dynamic State
Bi       Beijing University                                Basic Science            Beijing
Organic Molecular Engineering of Biology
B2       Beijing University                                Basic Science            Beijing
Math and Its Applicatlons
B3       Beijing University                                Geology                  Beijing
Quaternary Period Lab
B4       Beijing University                                Basic Science            Beijing
Electronic Optics-Electronic Microscope
B5       Qinghua University                                Civil Engineering        Beijing
Large High-dam Structure
B6       Oinghua University                                Basic Science            Beijing
Partical Techniques and Radiation Imaging
B7       Beijing Normal University                         Computer                 Beijing
Fuzzy Data Processing and Computers
88       Nankal University                                 Basic Science            Tianjin
Basic Math and Probability Statistics Research
T9 llanjin University                                      Basic Science            Tianjin
Testing of Electron Optic Mechanics
BIO      Northeast Normal University                       Agriculture              Changchun, Jilin
Grassland Ecology Engineering



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Institution
Lab No.     Lab Names                                      Research Field            City and Province
B11      Zhejiang University                               Machinery                 Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Sensor Technologles
812      Fudan University                                  Basic Science             Shanghai
Physical Chemistry
B13      Fudan University                                  Basic Science             Shanghai
Math Disciplines
B14      Fudan University                                  Basic Science             Shanghai
Nuclear and Molecular Physics Based on Accelerators
1S5      Tongji University                                 Civil Engineering         Shanghai
Modernization of Urban Planning and Design
B16      Nanjing University                                Meteorology               NanJinr, Jiangsu
Medium-scale Disastrous Weather Forecasting
B17      Nanjing University                                Environment Science       Nanjing, Jiangsu
Development of Coastal Lands, TIdelands and Islands
B18      Nanjing University                                Basic Science             Nanjing, Jiangsu
Center for Astronomical Data and Computational Physics
819      Southeast University                              Civil Engineering         Nanjing, Jiangsu
Architectural Design and Modelling Assisted by Computers
B20      Zhejiang University                               Electronic Engineering    Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Electric-Electronic Techniques
821      Zhejiang University                               Chemical Engineering      Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Chemical Engineering for Secondary Resources
B22      Xiamen University                                 Medicine                  Xiamen, Fujian
Tumor Cell Engineering
823      Wuhan University                                  Agriculture               Wuhan, Hubei
Virus Bo-prevention and Cure
B24      Wuhan University                                   Basic Science            Wuhan, Hubei
Ionosphere
825      Wuhan University                                  Basic Science             Wuhan, Hubel
Rare Earths and the Chemistry of Bo-electrolysis
B26      Huazhong University of Science and Technology     Machinery                 Wuhan, Hubei
New Electric Motors
B27      Huazhong University of Science and Technology     Computer                  Wuhan, Hubei
External Storage Systems
828      Zhongshan University                              Biochemistry              Guangzhou, Guangdong
Plant Genetic Engineering
829      Zhongshan University                              Agriculture               Guangzhou, Guangdong
Breeding of Cash Animal Aqua-products
830      Sichuan University                                 Agriculture              Chengdu. Sichuan
Bio-prevention of Grassland Rodents and Pests
B31      Chengdu University of Science and Technology      Raw Materials             Chengdu, Sichuan
Leather Engineering
B32      Xian Jiaotong University                          New Materials             Xlan, Shaanxi
Eletronic Materials and Devices for Refined Functions
B33      Xian Jiaotong University                          Energy Resources          Xian, Shaanxi
Machinery for Fluid
834      Xian Jiaotong University                          Medicine                  Xian, Shaanxi
Electronic Techniques and Devices in Modem Medicine



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Institution
Lab No.     Lab Names                                      Research Field           City and Province
835      China University of Geosciences                   Geology                  Beijing
Mineral Rock Materials -- Development and Use
B36      China University of Geosciences                   Geology                  Beijing
New Boring Techniques
837      Chengdu College of Geology                        Prev&CurelDisasters      Chengdu, Sichuan
Prevention of Geological Disasters and Geological Environmental Protection
638      Beijing Institute of Technology                   Machinery                Beijing
Science and Engineering of Colors
639      Beijing Institute of Technology                   Electronic Engineering   Beijing
Information Collection and Processing
640      Beijing Institute of Technology                   Machinery                Beijing
Automotive Dynamics and Release Testing
841      Beijing Institute of Technology                   New Materials            Beijing
Research in Anti-combustion Material
B42      Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics  Machinery              Beijing
Soft Manufacturing Technologies
B43      Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics  Basic Science          Beijing
Fluid Dynamics
644      Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics  Machinery              Beijing
Mechanics and Mechanisms of Robots
845      Belijng University of Aeronautics and Astronautics  Electronic Engingering  BeiJing
Electronic Systems and Testing Techniques
646      Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics  Energy Resources       Beijing
Thermal Power Engineering
647      Harbin institute of Technology                    Computer                 Harbin, Heilongjiang
Computer Interface and Interface Systems
B48      Harbin institute of Technology                    Basic Science            Harbin, Heilongjiang
Non-linear Optic Data Processing
649      Harbin Institute of Technology                    Automatic Control        Harbin. Heilongjiang
Intelligence Control Systems
650      Northwestern Polytechnical University             Machinery                Xian, Shaanxi
Design and Manufacture of Computer Accessories
B51      Northwestern Polytechnical University             Machinery                Xian, Shaanxi
Dynamics and Strength
652      Northwestern Polytechnical University             Electronic Engineering   Xian, Shaanxi
Acoustic Engineering and Testing
653      Northwestern Polytechnical University             Machinery                Xian, Shaanxi
Thermal Engineering Data Processing
B54      Beijing University of Science and Technology      Raw Materials            Beijing
Solid Electrolyte Metallurgical Testing Techniques
B55      Hehal University                                  Water Conservation       Nanjing. Jiangsu
Development and Exploitation of Water Resources
B56      Jinan University                                  Medlclne                 Guangzhou, Guangdong
Tissue Transplant and Immunization
657      China University of Mining and Technology         Energy Resources         Beijing
Coal Resource Characteristic
B58      Hangzhou University                               Basic Science            Hangzhou, Zhejiang
Industrial Psychology



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research and Training in SKLs and SLs (Laboratory ComRonent)
Research Proposal and Peer Review Process
1.        The State Planning Commission in consultation with the
Association developed detailed guidelines and organized a systematic review
to select the laboratories that would participate in the Key Studies
Development Project. The review was conducted in stages, beginning with
expressions of interest from 500 university labs and 124 CAS institutes.
Successive reviews of laboratory qualifications reduced the numbers of labs
to 184 and 70, and then to 146 and 23. Review of final proposals,
described below, resulted in the final choice of 114 university-based labs
and 19 CAS-based labs. (Many of the labs involved more than one
university; one which involves both universities and a CAS lab is counted
as a university-based lab).
2.        SPC prepared guidelines for proposal preparation which were
based on the following general principles for project design:
(a)  Selecting high priority fields--Research fields to be
supported under the project must be expected to make
important contributions to economic growth and
modernization in China, as judged by qualified experts.
(b)  Qualifications of laboratories--Laboratories should have
appropriate qualifications. Select.on criteria for project
laboratories should include: number and qualifications of
key staff; a proven track record in research and in the
training and development of new researchers; an adequate
starting base of scientific instruments; good use of
existing facilities; and capacity to manage research.
(c)  Translating research into practice--Proposals should
indicate how research projects to be undertaken are
expected to be translated in practice.
(d)  Concentrating resources--Project resources should be
distributed so that excessive duplication of effort is
avoided, resources allocated do not exceed absorptive
capacity of the receiving entity, and resources are not
spread so thinly as to reduce effectiveness.
(e)  Developing young researchers--A major function of key labs
should be to help young researchers become mature
researchers. Over time post-doctoral researchers should be
given full responsibility for being project leaders.
Laboratories would be expected to have agreed numbers of



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
graduate students and post-doctoral researchers and to plan
adequate programs for their training.
(f) Increasing professional interaction- -Because scientific
research is a cooperative enterprise, opportunities for
interaction need to be assured both among scientists within
China and with researchers abroad.
(g) Assuring funding for research--Laboratories undertaking
research projects of major importance to national
development need assured sources of funding for ongoing
costs of research. Continuation of such funding should not
be automatic but should depend on performance.
(h)  Good laboratory management--To be productive, laboratories
must be well-managed. Good management includes: setting
realistic objectives, devising medium-term plans for
accomplishing these, monitoring performance, exercising
control over funds, ensuring efficient and safe use of
equipment, staffing appropriately and providing staff with
opportunity for growth and development.
(i)  Equity--Laboratories should provide equal opportunities for
employment regardless of gender, age or other
characteristics unrelated to training and qualification.
Promotion should be based on performance. Research
productivity should be recognized through authorship of
papers, presentations at conferences and other suitable
means.
3.        The guidelines distributed by SPC specified that final proposals
to be submitted by candidate laboratories should include both an overall
feasibility report on the laboratory (providing detail on current
conditions as well as plans for managing staffing, training and finances)
and a description of the content and arrangements for proposed research
projects. The guidelines were distributed by SPC in January 1989 to
candidate SKLs and SLs through the State Education Commission (SEdC) and
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). Completed proposals were then returned
via those same channels and reviewed in several stages.
4.        The first stage of evaluation was conducted by committees of
experts.  For each candidate SKL or SL, a committee of a few experts was
organized by SEdC or CAS. The total number of experts was about 200 for
SEdC, of which about 30 came from CAS laboratories and industries; and 68
for CAS, of which 31 came from institutions not affiliated with CAS,
including research institutes, comprehensive universities and industries.
The experts' reputations were usually well known in their fields and to the
staff of the laboratories they reviewed. The procedures used by these
committees of experts to appraise the proposals were similar regardless of
whether they reported to SEdC or CAS. They typically involved an analysis



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
of the proposal, a visit to the laboratory, a redraft of the proposal, more
feedback and a third and final draft.
5.        The appraisal crlteria adopted by the committee of experts
included, among others, competence of the laboratory to perform the
proposed research, appropriateness of the research to the goals of the
laboratory and the project, availability of counterpart funds, management
structure and training plan. Particular attention was paid to the
equipment budget and trying to bring it in line with the policies adopted
by SPC for the amount of foreign exchange to be allocated to each
laboratory to achieve objectives of economy and efficiency and also assure
sufficient funds. They suggested consolidation of research projects when
appropriate and elimination of some when lacking focus. In some instances,
they recommended adding topics of research.
6.        In the second stage of evaluation, the reports of the first
stage were analyzed by another committee. Both for SEdC and CAS
laboratories, this was an administrative committee which evaluated the
proposals according to the basic financial, management and training
guidelines. The nature and cost of the equipment to be acquired was,
again, a very important focus of attention.  Out of the deliberations of
these administrative committees came recommendations to the SPC about which
of the laboratories and research projects should be supported and at what
level.
7.        The third and final review stage was then done by the SPC, based
on criteria related to the overall planning of the project. SPC formed an
Expert Committee consisting of 18 representatives from SEdC, CAS, industry
and several of the line ministries. The net outcome of its evaluation was
a list of 75 approved SKL programs and 58 SL programs and their
corresponding budgets. This list was submitted to the Association for its
consideration. Of the SKLs, 55 are from SEdC, 19 from CAS, and one is
joint. A total of 522 research projects in 133 laboratories was approved.



- 51 -
ANNEX -3
Page I of 4
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Significance of Project Supported Research for
China's Economic and Social Development
(Prepared by SIC)
1.        In the area of raw and processed materials and new materials,
research and development of plastics, refined ceramics and new metallic
materials will be strengthened. In particular with regard to organic
materials, a number of key labs will be built, paying attentjon not only to
new plastic materials (e.g., "research in engineering plastics" undertaken
by the Chemistry Institute of CAS and "engineering for high polymer
materials" undertaken by Chengdu S&T University) and functioning high
polymer materials (e.g., "high polymer materials with absorption and
separation functions" undertaken by Nankai University), but also to
research on paper-making techniques needed in light industry and the
textile industry (e.g., 'engineering for pulp and paper making" undertaken
by South China Technical University) and dye techniques (e.g., "refined
synthesis of dyes and surface active agents" undertaken by Dalian Technical
University). Textiles are major exports by China. The key lab for
"Modification of Fiber Materials" to be set up in China Textile University
can be expected to help bring improvements. In addition, special emphasis
is on the research and development of organic raw materials, as for
instance the lab for "carbonyl synthesis and selective oxidation" to be set
up in the Lanzhou Chemistry and Physics Institute of CAS, the lab for
"monocarbide engineering", a joint Tianjin University-Qinghua University
sub-project, and the "heavy oil processing lab" to be built by the
Petroleum University.
2.        In the area of inorganic non-metal materials, great attention is
being paid to new ceramic materials which have broad prospective uses. Two
key labs will concentrate separately on basic research and technological
development. Research in cement techniques is very active internationally.
Tongji University, which is famed for its civil and architectural
engineering departments, will build a lab devoted to cement research. In
the area of specialty materials, Jilin University will build a key lab for
research in "ultra-hard materials'.
3.        Metals will still be in a dominant position among materials.
Important current trends are to enhance their performance and develop new
varieties through continuous technological innovation. There are 3 such
key labs planned: "quick-solidifying non-equilibrium alloys" to be built
by the Metal Institute of CAS; "new metallic materials" to be built in
Beijing S&T University; and "powder metallurgy technologies" (for
manufacturing new metallic materials) to be built in the Central South
Polytech University. The Physics Institute of CAS has an edge in magnetic
research in the country. It will build a "magnetic and magnetic materials"
lab. China has an abundance of rare earth elements, Beijing University



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
will build a "chemistry of rare earth materials and applications" lab for
deepgoing research. In the research of more traditional materials such as
steel, Xian Communications University will set up a key lab for "metal
strength".
4.        Sensing technology is a critical element in automation, and
sensitive materials form the basis for its technologies. To this end, the
Shanghai Metallurgical Institute of CAS will build a key lab for research
in "information functional materials".
5.        In the area of communications, computer, and electronic
technologies, the proposed sub-projects mainly focus on communications,
consisting of 6 key labs located in 7 universities. Based on a particular
institute's advantage and the expertise of the lead person, the Experts
Panel recommended a measure of division of work, as follows. "Prog&om-
controlled exchange technology and communication networks" for Beijing
Postal and Telecommunications Institute; "microwave and digital
communications technology" for Qinghua University; "mobile and multi-point
wireless communication networks" for Southeastern University; "wide-band
optic fiber transmission and communication systems" for Chengdu
Telecommunications Engineering College, with stress on transmission; "zone
optic fiber communication networks and coherent light communications" for
Shanghai Communications University and Beijing University; and "theory of
comprehensive operational network and critical technology" for Xian
Electronics S&T University. The building of these laboratories will play
an important role in promoting the development of basic technologies in the
communications field. In the computer field, the emphasis is on practical
applications. Two examples are the lab for "word processing techniques" to
be built in Beijing University and the lab for "computation for sciences
and engineering" to be undertaken by the Computer Center of CAS. The
latter will focus on the application of computational math to our economic
reconstruction. In the area in which electronic techniques are linked to
electronics, optics and machinery, there are several key labs proposed:
"special ICs and systems" for Fudan University; "refined processing optical
techniques" for the Chengdu Optical Electronics Institute of CAS; and
"transient optic techniques" fnr Xian Optical Machinery Institute of CAS.
6.        In machine building and automatic control, there are proposed
labs for "modern welding production techniques" for Harbin Polytech
University; "rolling techniques and the automation of continuous rolling"
for the Northeast Polytech Institute; and "solidifying techniques" for the
Northwestern Polytech University. (These involve the development of
several basic techniques in the shaping process of machine-building.)
There are also: "vibration, percussion and noise" for Shanghai
Communications University; "fluid transmission and control" and "techniques
of industrial control" for Zhejiang University; and "precision testing
techniques and instruments" for Tianjin and Qinghua Universities. These
labs will surely contribute to the development of modern machine-building
techniques and industrial automation.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
7.        Energy and transportation are priority areas.  In energy, the
focus is on coal burning and conversion techniques and power generation
systems and safety equipment. The former includes key labs for "coal
conversion science and technology" (Shanghai Coal Chemistry Research
Institute, CAS) and "high-efficiency and low-pollution techniques in coal
burning" (Qinghua University). The latter includes key labs for "power
systems and safety control for large generation equipment" (Qinghua
University) and "power equipment and electric insulation" (Xian
Communications University). In transport, the "tractive dynamics' labs for
the Southwestern Communications University, "automobile safety and energy
conservation" lab for Qinghua, and "simulation of automotive dynamic state"
lab for Jilin Polytech University will contribute to the development of the
locomotive and the automobile.
8.        In the area of agriculture, health care, medicine and bio-
engineering, attention is paid to the problem of soil erosion on the loess
plateau and the development of arid and semi-arid regions. Proposed sub-
projects include "loess plateau soil erosion and arid-land farming"
(Northwest Water and Soil Conservation Institute, CAS) and "arid farming
ecology" (Lanzhou University). To boost and maintain high grain yield, the
Institute of Heredity of CAS and the Northwest Botany Institute will
jointly set up a lab for "plant cell and chromosome engineering and crop
breeding". To prevent rodents and pests, the Institute of Zoology, CAS and
the Shanghai Institute of Entomology will jointly build a key lab for
"research in comprehensive treatment of agricultural pests" and Zhongshan
University will build a lab for "biological prevention and cure".
Additionally in agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries, several
specialized labs will be set up. In bio-engineering, the emphasis is on
two weak links, namely, initial development of microbe resources and
biochemical engineering. The sub-projects proposed include: "initial
development of microbe resources" (the Microbe Institute, CAS), "bio-
chemical engineering" (Chemical Engineering and Metallurgical Institute,
CAS), and "biological reactors" (East China Chemical Engineering
Institute). In medicine and health care, two key labs will be built to
develop new medicines: 'new medicine research lab" (Shanghai Pharmaceutics
Institute, CAS) which focuses on pharmaceutical toxicity research, and
"medical bio-techniques lab" (Nanjing University). These labs should help
the bio-medical products they have already developed and bring the products
up to a clinically applicable level.
9.        The S&T in the area of environmental studies and geological
engineering have great significance and scope, so a total of 10 key labs
and 7 specialized labs will be built.
10.       In environmental protection, the Geochemistry Institute of CAS
will build an "environmental geochemistry lab", to mainly study the
geochemistry process and its law of change in the environmental interface
of life elements, so as to serve environmental protection and protection of
human health. In the study of pollution control, there will be one key lab
each in the north and south: In the North, Qinghua, Beijing and Beijing



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
Normal Universities and the Ecological Environment Research Center of CAS
will jointly build a lab for "environment simulation and pollution
control"; in the South, Tongji and Nanjing Universities will build a lab
for "pollution control and the study of its conversion into resources.'
11.       In disaster research, 3 key labs will be built:  "rainstorm
monitoring and forecast labn at Beijing University, which will focus on
mathematical simulation of the formation process of medium-term rainstorms
and their monitoring and diagnosis, proceeding from the need for
forecasting drought or flood that hit large areas; "fire research lab" at
China S&T University, which will focus on the law of fire starts and their
spreading to provide knowledge about fire prevention; and a lab for the
"prevention and control of explosive catastrophes" at Beijing Technical
University, which will focus on the mechanisms that induce burning or
explosion of powder, gas or liquid in Jifferent natural and industrial
surroundings, as well as the techniques that stop or suppress burning and
explosion.
12.       In geo-engineering, proposed key labs include:  "physics of
atmospheric boundary layers and atmospheric chemistry" at the Atmospheric
Physics Institute of CAS (for research in the atmospheric environment, in
weather change, and in the forecast of calamitous weather), "river mouth or
coastal power sedimentation and dynamic geomorphic synthesis" at East China
Normal University (for comprehensive research into the question, long
unresolved, of the dynamic of river mouth sedimentation, which will be
significant for the coastal economy), and "endogenic ore deposit
metallogency" at Nanjing University (for theoretical guidance to the search
for hidden metal ore beds).
13.       In basic sciences, 3 key labs have been proposed:  "turbulent
flow", "modern acoustics", and 'computations for theoretical chemistry".
The project-undertaking institutes, i.e., Beijing, Nanjing and Jilin
Universities, all have solid foundations and have achieved study results
with international standing. The three proposed sub-projects would enable
them to maintain and push forward the advanced levels they have attained in
their respective fields. 14 other specialized labs for basic research will
be built, including 3 on math research at Beijing, Fudan and Nanjing
Universities. These labs will play a positive role in propelling our math
researeh into world advanced ranks and in broadening its applications to
the national economy. Then there are sub-projects concerned with testing
techniques, analytic methodology and theoretical computation. These are
also needed for the development of the basic sciences. In fact, t1he
implementation for these projects and advances in basic research concerned
will play, to varying degrees, a guiding and supporting role for the
advancement of those priority disciplines.
14.       The proposed "Beijing Zhongguancun Area Computer Network Sub-
Projectn is an infrastructure facility with shared resources and
environment. Its implementation will create conditions for elevating the
research and education levels in that geographic area and can provide a
base for conducting experiments in disciplines related to an area
information network.



- 55 -
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pilot Laboratory Management Program
1.        The Pilot Laboratory Management Program (PLMP) will provide
special assistance to seven of the project laboratories in the formulation
and implementation of initiatives to increase efficiency and improve
overall management of research and training in the project laboratories.
Planning and preparation for the program will continue through April 1990
to enable managers and senior staff from the pilot laboratories to coalesce
as a group, diagnose the main problems to be tackled through the program,
and define activities to be undertaken in their respective laboratories. A
four-year implementation period will begin in May 1990. PLMP will be
coordinated by the National Natural Science Foundation (NSFC). When it is
established, the Key Studies Program Advisory Group (PAG) will also play a
useful role in advising, monitoring and otherwise assisting the program.
The UNDP has agreed to provide resources to support program planning and
implementation.
2.        In all areas of program application, PIMP, using workshops and
the advice of Chinese and foreign experts, would analyze the existing
situation, propose possible solutions to problems that would be tried,
reviewed and modified regularly. Successful procedural changes and new
activities would be disseminated through meetings and written reports to
other project laboratories and, subsequently, more broadly in China.
3.        Areas of Program Agglication
(a) Technology Transfer. The Government has given high
priority to increasing the quantity and rate of transfer of
research findings into either marketable products or
improving industrial processes. Academic laboratories,
such as those to be financed by the project, have little
experience with this process. Using both Chinese and
foreign experts, the PLMP would: (i) examine laboratory-
industry relations in the pilot labs; (ii) analyze
experience in more industrially oriented labs in China, for
lessons to be learned; (iii) assist the pilot labs in
adopting new procedures and identifying new modes of
operating that will improve relationships with industry;
and (iv) assist in dissemination.
(b) Communications. Anecdotal evidence suggests that
communication both within and between laboratories needs to
be improved. Within laboratories, directors need to be
visible and accessible to staff through group meeting,
memoranda and individual contact. Seminars should be used



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
to share research results among students, technicians and
professors. Laboratory staff at lower levels should be
encouraged to participate. Moie use should be made of
simple technologies, such as blackboards, overhead projects
and duplicating facilities. Externally, labs need more
communication with Chinese and foreign labs doing similar
work. The PLMP would analyze the communication situation
in each pilot lab and choose and implement new strategies
for increasing communication. Funds would be available to
incrementally augment the equipment available to each lab
for this purpose. A guiding principle for designing
enhancements would be that they must be low cost and
replicable in other labs in China.
(c) Personnel Management. The lack of specialized support
staff in most Chinese laboratories markedly affects the
output and efficiency of the more senior scientists, who
are often required to carry out routine tasks better suited
to specialized support individuals. There are far too few
specialists dedicated to instrument repair and modification
and those available are often too narrowly trained to
service more than one or a few types of equipment. PLMP
would review the staffing of the pilot lab and, where
appropriate, make recommendations regarding reassignments
or retraining. The situation regarding secretarial
assistance would be reviewed, and if appropriate, a new
course would be set up. Acquisition and training in the
use of word processing and electronic test equipment might
be helpful in some cases.
(d) Professionalism and Staff Training. A program of constant
upgrading of the quality of research staff is necessary for
laboratories that want to maintain the productivity of
their staffs. Many staff enter labs with overly
specialized training and therefore need significant help in
acquiring new skills. Labs also need to investigate
incentive structures for all staff and make provision for
career development. Laboratory and research team leaders
at present have no opportunity for training in their roles.
PLMP would expand opportunities for training in such
topics and personnel supervision, evaluation of scientific
personnel, financial administration and management, and
managing technological innovation, either through existing
courses in China or by developing new ones.
(e) Financial Management. As sources of funding in China
diversify, it becomes increasingly important for laboratory
directors to understand how to balance the financial input
from sources that may be targeted at specific research
programs. In addition, past budgeting for foreign-made



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
supplies, spares and service to operate complex scientific
and technical equipment has been either inadequate or non-
existent. As China's use of foreign technology continues
to expand, much more careful budget planning will be
necessary to avoid major delays in research. The proposal,
budgeting and financial control processes in the pilot
laboratories will be examined and changes experimented with
to improve their efficiency and effectiveness.
(f) Creating Open Laboratories and Post-doctoral Stations.
These al. crucial to achieving the increased productivity
expected for project labs. Development of both open labs
and post-doctoral stations will be monitored closely in the
pilot labs. Among the problems expected to arise are: (i)
publicizing opportunities to suitable candidates; (ii)
making appropriate selections; (iii) providing housing and
other perquisites of residence on a short-term basis; and
(iv) making adequate resources available. Measures to
address these and other difficulties that arise will be
thoroughly explored and will contribute to improving the
operation of all open labs and post-doctoral stations in
China.
(g) Procurement. Supply lines to most Chinese university and
CAS labs remain a problem. Purchases requiring foreign
currencies are particularly time consuming and expensive,
but domestic requisitions also require too much time. The
requisition procedures of pilot labs would be analyzed, as
well as the approval procedures now in place. Based on -he
results, suggestions will be made to improve the flow of
foreign consumables and spare parts and to speed up
approvals on major purchases. It may be necessary to
provide training for some staff who have procurement
responsibilities.
(h) Safety. Laboratories appear to accord low priority to
safety. A survey of biological, radiation, fire and
mechanical hazards in the pilot labs would be conducted,
and improved procedures, regulations or protective
instruments proposed. Successful changes would be
disseminated to other labs.
Program Implementation
4.        A planning meeting of the laboratory leaders was convened by
NSFC for two days in Beijing in November 1989. Participants will include
the director and two senior staff from each of the pilot labs, a panel of
Chinese management experts and several leading Chinese scientists. The
laboratory directors will be requested to bring to the meeting a written
assessment of the current situation in their laboratories with respect to



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
personnel structure, professionalism and staff training, openness,
technology transfer, internal and external communication, financial
management, procurement, and laboratory safety. The directors will be
encouraged to report and describe problems that need to be addressed in
order to increase laboratory efficiency and productivity and suggest
initiatives that could be supported through the program.  Through
discussion with one another and with expert advisors, the lab directors
will outline priority areas for activity by their individual institutions
under PLMP.  Common priorities will form the agenda for future activities
to be undertaken jointly by the seven laboratories.
5.        A three to five-day workshop of the laboratory managers will be
held each year during project implementation (1990-93). The first workshop
will take place in the Spring of 1990. Several foreign specialists will be
invited to discuss international experience on topics of particular
interest to the directors, which might include, for example, technology
transfer, electronic maintenance, or staff development. The outcome of the
meeting will be a schedule of activities for the following year of
implementation and general plan for the outer years. Additional workshops,
training courses, study tours or visits to individual laboratories, both
international and domestic, by Chinese and foreign experts would be
arranged as needed for all or some of the laboratories. Beginning in 1991,
PIMP participants will use the annual workshop to review progress in
implementation and adjust activity plans for the coming year.
6.        UNDP grant financing for tha program as well as limited
counterpart funds would be used to support the implementation of PIMP group
activities and special initiatives to be taken within individual
laboratories. These resources would be used mainly for foreign technical
assistance and training, although it may be necessary to purchase small
items of equipment (photocopiers, word processors, communication equipment,
etc.) needed to support management initiatives in the laboratories.
7.        It is expected that experience in the pilot labs would be
closely monitored by the pilot lab directors themselves, NSFC and the PAG.
PLMP will provide information on important indicators of performance for
the whole project in areas such as recurring research support costs,
equipment installation and usage, fees charged for instrument use and
procurement and maintenance difficulties. NSFC will prepare an annual
report on the PIMP to be included in the overall project implementation
report to be provided annually to the World Bank and to the directors of
all 133 laboratories participating in the project.
8.        In 1993, when results from the Pilot Labs become available,
NSPC, in collaboration with SEdC, CAS and other relevant agencies, would
convene a national workshop to review results of the PLMP and plan a phased
extension of successful activities to additional laboratories.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
List of Pilot Laboratories
A 3       Laboratory of Rapidly Solidified Non-Equilibrium Alloys (SKL)
Shenyang Institute of Metal Research
"Alloy Lab"
Chinese Academy of Sciences
Shenyang, Liaoning Province
A 10      Laboratory for Drug Research (SKL)
Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica
"Drug Lab"
Chinese Academy of Sciences
Shanghai
A 25      Laboratory for Efficient and Clean Coal Combustion (SKL)
Qinghua University
"Coal Lab"
State Education Commission
Beijing
A 54      Polymer Material Engineering Laboratory (SKL)
Chengdu University of Science and Technology
"Polymer Lab"
State Education Commission
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
A 71      Remote Sensing Information Engineering in Surveying and Mapping
(SKL)
Wuhan Technical University of Surveying and Mapping
"Remote Sensing Lab'
State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping
Wuhan, Hubei Province
B 17      Sea Coast, Tidal Flat and Island Exploitation Laboratory (SL)
Nanjing University
'Seacoast Lab"
State Education Commission
Nanjing, Jiangsu Province
B 32      Fine Electronic Functional Materials and Devices (SL)
Xian Jiaotong University
"Ceramics Lab"
State Education Commission
Xian, Shaanxi Province



- 60 -
ANEX-5
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program Advisory Group
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        SEdC, entrusted by SPC, will appoint a Program Advisory Group
(PAG) of nine persons. The PAG will operate under the guidance of SEdC and
be responsible for offering advice to SEdC and CAS concerning the
implementation of the Laboratory Component of the Key Studies Development
Project, to NSFC concernir.g implementation related to the Pilot Laboratory
Management Program and to SPC concerning implementation of the National
Computer and Network Facility, as appropriate to the composition and skills
of PAG but within PAG's terms of reference.
2.        These draft terms of reference (TOR) for PAG will become final
after review and revision by PAG in collaboration with SEdC, CAS and SPC.
Final terms of reference would be agreed not later than three months after
formation of the PAG Areas of responsibility for PAG would include:
(a) assisting SEdC and CAS in their roles of reviewing the overall
implementation of the project in the State Key Laboratories
(SKL) and Special Laboratories (SL) in order to attain the
project objectives and targets. In particular, the PAG would
review, annually, performance on key indicators, including
equipment utilization, availability of funds for research, and
degree of openness, as spelled out in Annex 7. Should any
laboratory have problems in any of these respects, the PAG would
bring these problems to the attention first of SEdC or CAS and
if necessary to SPF, and to the World Bank.  Measures to resolve
the problems would be reviewed by the World Bank;
(b) giving advice to SEdC and CAS at periodic meetings, held at
least annually, on the progress SKLs and SLs are making under
the project and on outstanding issues that might arise during
the course of project iml,lementation;
(c) giving advice to SEdC and CAS concerning development of
scientific research and postgraduate education, in SKLs and SLs
and the combination of teaching and research;
(d) advising on improvement of management work in SKLs and SLs with
special emphasis on the Pilot Laboratory Management Program;
(e) offering advice and recommendations to SEdC and CAS on equipment
procurement, staff development and utilization of facilities in
SKLs and SLs;



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(f) advising SEdC and CAS on the most recent advances in scientific
instrumentation and computational equipment and software:
(g) assisting SEdC and CAS as well as SKLs and SLs in establishing
and maintaining high quality and appropriate modes of
international exchanges related to the project;
(h)  working with 3!EdC and CAS to strengthen graduate curricula for
institutes and universities with SKLs and SLs so that formal
training is both broader and deeper;
(i) reviewing the design and the operation of the National Computer
and Network Facility of China;
(j)  submitting to SEdC and CAS a summary report after each meeting
with a copy to the Department of Science and Technology of SPC;
(k) submitting to SEdC and CAS an annual report on the PAG's
activities by the end of each year with copies to SPC, UNDP and
the World Bank; and
(1) assisting SEdC and CAS in evaluating the project upon completion
of the project as well as submitting a PAG's final project
evaluation report to SEdC and CAS with copies to SPC, MOF, UNDP
and the World Bank.
3.        PAG will be chaired by a Chinese research scientist.  Other
members of PAG should include four members of the Chinese scientific
research community with a representative from a key university under the
jurisdiction of SEdC, a representative from a research institute of CAS, a
representative of a research institute or university of a related line
ministry of industry and a representative of the expert group of SPC for
the project.
4.        The remaining four members of PAG should come from the
international scientific research community with a representative from a
major world class research university, a representative from a major
foreign national research or industrial research laboratory, and a
representative from a major computing center that serves university and
industrial research needs. Additionally, the foreign members of PAG should
be chosen by SEdC from countries that represent different international
models of scientific research practice, management and funding as well as
differing models in science policy development and articulation.
5.        All the membership of PAG should be prominent scientists both at
home and abroad with long-time practical experiences in postgraduate
education and scientific research. They should be experts in the
manage.ment of research laboratories with a wide range of specialized
knowledge, and should familiarize themselves with the working procedures of



- 62 -
ANNEL S
Page 3 of 3
should devote an appropriate amount of time to the work of the project.
For the convenience of cooperating with their foreign counterparts, the
Chinese members should be proficient in English.
6.        The Departments of Finance; Science and Technology; Planning and
Construction; Conditions and Equipment; and Higher Education and the Loan
Office (FILO) of SEdC will bear the responsibility for nominating
candidates for PAG's chairperson and one additional member. Two members
will be recommended for nomination, one each, by CAS and a related line
ministry. The fifth member will be nominated by the expert group of SPC
for the project. Candidates for the foreign members will be nominated by
foreign scientific agencies from several countries including Canada, US,
UK, Japan, Germany, France, Brazil, Sweden, and otheis as appropriate.
Agencies will be encouraged to nominate outstanding women scientists.
(Typical organizations include the US National Academy of Sciences, the
British Royal Society, the German Max Planck Institute and the Swedish
Royal Academy). Solicitation of nominations will be organized by the World
Bank. Three names for each positiotn on PAG will be submitted to SEdC by
the World Bank. The Project Working Group of SEdC will set up a temporary
review team, which will consist of people concerned from various
departments, to make the final selection of the international PAG members
on the basis of consultation with SPC, CAS, NSFC and among departments
within SEdC. The SEdC vice chairman in charge of the project will, on
behalf of SEdC, officially appoint the PAG members after formally approving
the final selection list submitted by the Working Group. SEdC will send
the list of the appointed PAG members to SPC for the record. Recruitment
of international PAG members will begin after negotiations.
7.        The FAG members will be appointed for a period of five years.
PAG operation will be reviewed by PAG, SEdC and CAS at the end of two years
for any necessary adjustments in PAG operating modes and PAG membership for
the next three years.
8.        PAG will, as part of its function and as it judges necessary,
make site visits to appropriate SKLs and SLs and meet at least once a year
to review the progress of the implementation of the project and to discuss
important issues which might appropriately arise in relation to management
of the project. Meetings will be called by the chairperson of the PAG with
assistance of SEdC. A report of each meeting will be submitted to SEdC,
CAS and SPC by the PAG. In addition, PAG will submit a report of its
activities to SEdC and CAS with copies to SPC, NSFC, UNDP and the World
Bank at the end of each calendar year. At the end of the project, PAG will
submit a final report, including a final evaluation of the project, to SEdC
and CAS with copies to SPC, NSFC, MOF, NOFERT, UNDP and the World Bank.
9.        FILO will establish a secreteriat to provide any necessary
administration and logistical support for all members of PAG.



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Regorting
1.        Each year by April 1 SEdC, on behalf of the entire project, will
submit to the World Bank and PAG a report (in English) describing progress
in implementing the project. A versior of the report in Chinese will be
sent to each participating university and institute, for distribution to
laboratory directors, by June 1 of each year.
2.        The report will have the following four sections:
Section A      A narrative overview of the status of the
project. This section would provide a general
picture of the project, inclu4ing what took place
during the year, possible results and
effectiveness, and the status of disbursements.
The report would note any problems of
implementation and steps that would be taken to
address these in the following year.
Section B      Two separate short reports, one on the pilot
laboratory management component, to be prepared
by NSFC and and one on the national computer and
network facility, to be prepared by CAS.
Section C      A summary table showing overall planned and
actual expenditures in US dollars for the year by
expenditure category (civil work, equipment,
books and materials, technical assistance,
graduate education and laboratory operations) and
broken down into subtotals for CAS and SEdC.
Section D      Tables reporting on implementation progress.
These would include:
i.   a summary table reporting on planned and
actual graduate intake, total enrollment and
graduates at the project laboratories;
ii. a table on equipment, showing the total
value of equipment received during the year,
the value of equipment installed and
accepted, and the value of equipment whose
delivery and final test dates exceeded six
months;



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
iii. a table describing the numbers and types of
international exchanges and specialist
visits;
iv. a table showing how many teachers and
researchers have participated in domestic
and overseas training and these as a
percentage of total teachers and researchers
in the project labs.
The tables would show data for CAS SKLs, SEdC
SKLs and SEdC SLs, and would not present data for
individual laboratories. All tables reporting on
numbers of people would show these numbers
disaggregated by gender.
Section E      A report on indicators.  During the first and
second year of implementation, the pilot
laboratories would report on progress according
to performance indicators in three areas: (i)
equipment utilization; (b) availablility of funds
for research; and (c) degree of openness. Draft
indicators in these areas were agreed at
negotiations. These would be tested and modified
as necessary through use in the pilot labs.
Beginning with the 1992 annual report, the
indicators would be finalized and all project
laboratories would be required to report on
progrebs using these measures.



- 65 -
CHINA                                                       Annex 7
Table I
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Distribution of Expenditures
(US$ Million)
1991              1992               1993              1994                 TOTAL
Local  Forelgn    Locl  Foreign      Local  Foreign    LocaW  Foreign     Local  Foreign     Total
Research & Trainina in SKLsISLs
Civil Workl                        12.32     0.00     4.11      0.00     0.84     0.00     0.01      0.00    17.27      0.00    17.27
Equipment                          14.30    37.66     0.07    60.04      6.16     4.88      1.87     1.18    31.30    83.66   124.90
Books & Material.                   0.61     0.93     0.48      0.86     0.31     0.39     0.11      0.17     1.41     2.36      3.76
Training &Specialist Serrioee       1.60     3.01     1.41      3.67     0.97     2.43     0.44      0.78     4.33     9.79    14.13
Grad Educ & Lab Operations          6.73     0.27     8.02      0.20     7.31     0.11     6.44      0.06    27.60     0.63    28.13
Total Baa Coost                   36.36    41.76    23.09    64.67     14.69     7.80      7.87     2.19    61.81    106.43   168.24
Physil Contingency@ 6%              2.00     3.42     1.97     4.48      1.20     0.64     0.66      0.18     6.71     8.73    16.44
Price Contingency                   3.64     3.76     4.68      6.68     4.22     1.06     3.17      0.37    16.77    10.70    28.6;
Subtotal                          41.80    48.94    30.80    64.72    20.00      9.60     11.69     2.74   104.29    126.91   230.20
Pilot Lab Manaaement Proaram
Equipment                           0.00     0.06     0.01     0.11      0.01     0.03     0.00      0.00     0.02     0.19      0.21
Training & SpeisttService          0.01     0.11     0.01      0.21     0.01     0.21     0.01      0.11     0.03     0.63      0.67
Tot Base Cost                      0.01     0.16     0.02      0.32     0.02     0.24     0.01      0.11     0.06     0.62      0.87
Physlcal Contingency 0 6%           0.00     0.01     0.00      0.03     0.00     0.02     0.00      0.01     0.00     0.07      0.07
Price Contingency                   0.00     0.01     0.00      0.03     0.00     0.03     0.00      0.02     0.01     0.10      0.11
Subtotal                           0.01     0.19     0.02      0.38     0.02     0.30     0.01      0.13     0.06     0.99      1.06
Natl Comoutina & Network Facility
Clvi Wolrks                         0.11     0.00     0.17      0.00     0.17     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.46     0.00      0.48
Equlpment                           0.06     1.27     0.17      1.27     0.23     1.27     0.11      0.42     0.67     4.22     4.79
Training & Specialist Services      0.00     0.02     0.00      0.02     0.00     0.02     0.00      0.01     0.00     0.07      0.07
Tota Base Cost                     0.17     1.20     0.34      1.20     0.40     1.29     0.11      0.43     1.02     4.30      6.32
PthysicalContingency@6%             0.01     0.11     0.03      0.11     0.03     0.11     0.01      0.04     0.08     0.36      0.26
Prie Contingency                    0.02     0.12     0.07     0.13      0.11     0.17     0.05      0.07     0.26     0.49     0.76
Subtotl                            0.20     1.61     0.44      1.63     0.64     1.67     0.17      0.64     1.36     6.14      6.32
Procram Advisory Mechanism
Equipment                           0.01     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.01     0.00      0.01
Training &Speclalst Services        0.01     0.16     0.00      0.16     0.00     0.17     0.00      0.16     0.02     0.63      0.64
Tota Base Coet                     0.02     0.16     0.00      0.16     0.00     0.17     0.00      0.16     0.02     0.63      0.65
Physica Contingency @6%             0.00     0.01     0.00     0.01      0.00     0.01     0.00      0.01     0.00     0.06     0.06
Prioe ConUngency                    0.00     0.01     0.00     0.02      0.00     0.02     0.00      0.03     0.00     0.08     0.08
Subtottl                           0.02     0.17     0.00      0.18     0.00     0.21     0.00      0.20     0.03     0.78      0.79
Total Prolect Cost
Cilvl Works                        12.43     0.00     4.20      0.00     1.01     0.00     0.01      0.00    17.73     0.00    17.73
Equipment                          14.36    38.87    10.16     1.A1      6.39     6.18     1.99      1.60    31.69    98.06   12i.96
Books & Materiale                   0.61     0.93     0.48     0.88      0.31     0.39     0.11      0.17     IAI      2.36     3.76
Training &SpeocWibstServices        1.62     3.20     1.42      3.96     0.98     263      0.48      1.06     4.38     11.13    16.61
er.d Educ & Lab Operations          6.73     0.27     6.02      0.20     7.31     0.11     6.44      0.0     27.60     0.63    26.13
SassCost                          36.68    43.36    24.36    66.42    16OO        .61     7.99      2.68    8Z901    11Z17   1918.0
Physical Contingenes               2.92     3.6      2.00     4.83      123      0.76     0.68      024      6.60     9.20    18.00
PriceContingeoeett                 3.66     3.90     4.92      6.76     4.34     1.28     3.22      0.49    16.03    11.43    27.47
Total Project Cost               42.03    60.61    31.26    8.80    20.67    11.67    11.87        3.61   106.74    132.80   238.68



CHINA
KEY SlUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research and TraWnmg in SKLs and SLs
(Laboratory Compont)
Base Costs by Categorv of Exoenditure
(US$ Milion)
Training &      Graduate Education
CMI Works          Equipment       Books & Materials    Specialist Svcs   & Lab Operations    Total Base Cost
Laboratoies              Total % foreign    Total % foreign    Total % foreign    Total % foreign    Total % foreign    Total % foreign'
SKs
CAS(LabsAl-A19)         2.02        0     20.19       75      0.50       31      2.87       61      6.53        0     32.11       55
SEdC(LabsA20-A75)      11.30        0     71.99       76      2.00       65      7.55       73      16.06       1    108.90       56
Ss (Labs B1-B58)          3.95        0     32.77       71      1.26       67      3.71       so      5.54        6     47.23       57



- 67 -
CHINA                                           ANNEX 7
Table 3
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research and Training in SKLs and SLs
(Laboratory Component)
Base Costs for Individual Laboratories a/
(USS Million)
TOTAL                                  TOTAL                                  TOTAL
Labs b/  Local Foreign   Total         Labs bl  Local ForeIgn   Total         Labs bl  Local Foreign   Total
Al        0.890    0.930   1.819       A40       0.389    1.089   1.478       1e6        0.175    0.511   0.685
A2        0.822    0.872   1.694       A47       0.700    1.025   1.725       917        0.294    0.379   0.673
A3        0.791    0.977   1.7aS       A4s       0.448    1.089   1.535       81s        0.311    0.309   0.620
A4        0.5604    0.827   1.391      A4s       1.011    0.924   1.936       519        0.127    0.367   0.494
AS        0.997    0.854   1.850       ASO       0.668    1.100   1.766       820        0.181    0.460   0.641
AS        0.677    0.934   1.612       A1        0.961    1.089   2.061       821        0.217    0.414   0.631
A7        0.953    0.630   1.583       AS2       0.738    0.726   1.483       822        0.200    0.413   0.613
AS        0.805    0.893   1.899       A53       1.065    1.134   2.200       823        0.567    0.417   0.985
As        0.982    0.840   1.822       As4       0.772    1.213   1.985       624        0.123    0.460   0.583
A10       0.691    1.054   1.745       ASS       0.622    1.065   1.587       925        0.164    0.414   0.578
All       0.455    0.823   1.278       ASO       0.607    0.649   1.25S       926        0.309    0.451   0.760
A12       0.717    0.849   1.866       A57       1.189    1.190   2.379       B27        0.352    0.609   0.861
A13       0.797    0.883   1.680       ASS       0.446    1.068   1.513       828        0.663    0.704   1.366
A14       0.688    0.768   1.450       A5s       2.070    1.160   3.230       B29        0.278    0.407   0.684
A15       0.899    0.768   1.667       ASO       2.074    1.529   3.603       930        0.809    0.497   1.306
AIO       0.556    0.839   1.394       A61       0.924    1.136   2.069       831        0.901    0.426   1.327
A17       1.005    0.816   1.820       A62       0.978    1.293   2.271       B32        0.854    0.411   1.266
A1S       0.703    0.839   1.542       A83       2.202    0.906   3.108       833        0.270    0.386   0.656
AIs       0.884    1.867   2.762       A64       2.027    1.111   3.138       834        0.423    0.441   0.864
A20       0.181    1.087   1.268       ASS       0.346    1.218   1.564       B35        0.401    0.432   0.833
A21       0.604    1.089   1.604       AGO       1.113    1.212   2.325       838        0.313    0.416   0.729
A22       0.815    1.007   1.822       A67       1.430    1.233   2.663       B37        0.984    0.397   1.381
A23       0.840    1.379   2.219       AOs       0.650    1.123   1.673       838        0.398    0.525   0.923
A24       0.312    0.899   1.211       A6s       0.838    0.895   1.734       93s        0.643    0.589   1.232
A25       0.370    1.127   1.497       A70       1.081    0.999   2.081       B40        0.500    0.586   1.086
A26       0.500    1.079   1.645       A71       0.380    1.202   1.582       B41        0.472    0.589   1.061
A27       0.309    1.044   1.353       A72       1.429    1.116   2.545       842        0.397    0.586   0.983
A28       1.645    1.018   2.663       A73       1.055    1.089   2.144       843        0.510    0.552   1.062
A29       0.586    1.272   1.868       A74       1.871    2.250   4.121       844        0.435    0.451   0.886
ASO       0.311    1.089   1.400       A75       1.192    1.201   2.453       946        0.378    0.546   0.924
A31       0.734    1.089   1.823       91        0.222    0.601   0.723       846        0.304    0.694   1.058
A32       0.831    1.385   2.216       82        0.318    0.271   0.888       847        0.203    0.409   0.612
A33       0.589    1.180   1.7e9       93        0.284    0.396   0.6So       848        0.182    0.411   0.593
A34       0.990    1.186   2.184       84        0.002    0.007   0.609       849        0.240    0.371   0.618
A3s       0.4065    0.173   0.638      Bs        0.088    0.413   0.602       650        0.290    0.551   0.842
A38       0.520    1.202   1.722       Be        0.074    0.425   0.499       8s1        0.6e4    0.607   1.255
A37       0.261    0.213   0.474       87        C.215    0.452   0.687       862        0.311    0.680   0.891
A38       0.es8    1.272   1.959       8s        0.064    0.328   0.393       653        0.403    0.501   0.964
A3S       0.634    1.213   1.847       89        0.251    0.420   0.677       B54        0.548    0.436   0.983
A40       0289    1.089   1.378        810       0.174    0.497   0.670      B85         0.339    0.422   0.761
A41       0.640    1.245   1.884       911       0.181    0.393   0.674       956        0.465    0.460   0.916
A42       0.853    1.089   1.942       812       0.108    0.409   0.517       B57        0.325    0.466   0.791
A43       0.274    1.477   1.752       813       0.500    0.271   0.770       85U        0.315    0.361   0.676
A44       0.979    1.150   2.130       814       0203    0.405   0.068         Unalloc.    -  0 .600   0.500
MS        0.241    0.939   1.180       815       0.245    0.522   0.767       Total    81.813  106.431  188.243
at Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
bW Lab numbers preceded by an A are SKL and'BO signifies an SL.
Ze Annex 1 for names of aboratories which correspond to letter-number code.



- 68 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
KEY STUD ES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for the Use of Technical Assistance Funds
for the Laboratory Component
Obiectives:
1.        Technical assistance funds for the Laboratory Component are to
be used to: (a) strengthen postgraduate education and research work in
project laboratories; (b) improve the capacity of present and potential
masters and PhD tutors to undertake high-quality research; and (c) oromote
the integration of Chinese laboratories, universities and scientists -Ito
the international scientific community.
Use of Funds:
2.        Funds allocated to individual laboratories under the laboratory
component may be used for the following purposes:
a.   Collaborative research, either foreign scientists in Chinese
labs or Chinese scientists in foreign labs. This may include
support for domestic and international transportation,
subsistence and limited support for research costs.
b.   Attendance by Chinese scientists and young researchers at
international meetings.
c.   Inviti%z foreign experts to China to give lectures and provide
advice on work.
d.   Short visits by laboratory officials or scientists to
laboratories and universities in foreign countries.
e.   Personnel training, in China or abroad, for Chinese faculty,
researchers, engineers, technical and managerial personnel.
3.        To the extent permitted by Chinese regulations, laboratory
directors will have responsibility for selecting the types of support
needed for their own laboratory, the people who are to receive support
(including those to be invited from overseas to visit China) and for
approving the purpose for which the funds will be used. It will be the
responsibility of SEdC and CAS to monitor that funds are used properly, but
only in exceptional circumstances should the judgement of the laboratory
director be overruled.



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
4.        Those Chinese scientists or researchers going abroad should
prepare plans for making effective use of their time and should agree not
to casually change their work programs.
5.       Terms of reference (TOR) for foreign experts who are invited to
lecture and give advice should be prepared by the laboratory receiving the
expert and discussed with and agreed to by the expert. To the extent
possible, the TOR should specify: the work expected of the expert,
including any advance preparation or follow-up work required in addition to
the visit; the expected number of hours for lecturing, collaboration in
research or providing advice; and any written reports or other outputs that
will be required. The TOR should also specify arrangements for
international and domestic travel and subsistence, visis, compensation and
other agreements as necessary. It will be the responsibility of SEdC and
CAS to ensure that individual laboratories understand and implement the
principle of managing technical assistance through agreed terms of
reference.
6.        The project will not impose any uniform reporting requirements
for foreign specialists or experts visiting China. Lab directors and SEdC
and CAS would agree on a case-by-case basis about what type of report would
be required.
7.        When more than a few persons need a similar kind of training,
preference should be given to bringing foreign experts to China to
accomplish the training, rather than to send large numbers of people abroad
in order to increase efficiency in use of funds.



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline of Special ICB Procedures for Procurement
of Scientific Research Eguipment. Apgaratus and Instruments
Introduction
Given the special nature of scientific research equipment, which
must conform to functional parameters and innovative requirements of
research activities, special ICB procedures may be used for purchase of
certain research equipment, apparatus, and instruments required by the
project. The procedures, which include features of both prequalification
and the two stage bidding process, call for creation of a database of
manufacturers and suppliers worldwide who have the capacity and capability
to supply the items required. The database would be created using the
principles of international competition and would involve the following
steps.
Procedure for Developing a List of Suppliers for an Item
1.        Prepare preliminary basic technical specifications for the item.
2.        Develop a list of potential suppliers of the item.  This would
be done using three methods:
(a) publish tdvertisements in the national press, in the
international press and in international professional journals
and periodicals, which would also be circulated to embassies and
trade representatives of all Bank member countries, listing
basic specifications of the equipment to be procured under the
project and requesting suppliers to register their interest in
writing and submit technical data and catalogues of their
equipment;
(b) obtain from scientists and other knowledgeable people in China
suggestions of manufacturers/suppliers that should be included
in the list and request from them technical data and catalogues
of their equipment;
(c) for particularly large or important instruments or equipment,
visit overseas manufacturers and suppliers to examine their
capability for supplying the needed items and collect technical
data and catalogues.
3.        Enter the list of potential suppliers in the database and on the
basis of the technical catalogues received revise the specifications for



- 71 -
Page 2 of 2
the item. The manufacturer's database would be updated periodically, and
at least annually.
4.        For complex custom items, a two stage system would be followed.
The basic technical specifications would be prepared and sent to all listed
suppliers, requesting them to submit a technical proposal substantially
conforming to the indicated technical specifications.
5.        Using the technical responses from suppliers a determination
would be made as to which suppliers are able to offer equipment conforming
to the specifications and requirements of the laboratory requesting the
equipment.
Making a Purchase
6.        When ready to make a purchase, send invitations to bid to all
the technically qualified suppliers asking them to submit price quotations
for the specified items by a certain date and time.
7.        Open the price quotations in public and read out the prices.
8.        Compare the prices, evaluate the bids and award the contract to
the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.
Review by the World Bank
9.        Before the first purchese the Association would review the
standard contract agreement and annexes.
10.       For each contract under these procedures the World Bank's no
objection would be required at the following stages:
(a) description of basic specifications (basic equipment list);
(b) text of the advertisement;
(c) description of detailed specifications;
(d) final list of technically qualified suppliers (the list should
be sent to the Association each time it is updated);
(e) contract award only if the contract is for items needed for
standardization with existing equipment or are of a highly
specialized nature or if the contract is estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more.



- 72 -
ANNEXC 10
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Guidelines for Use of Discretionary Funds
1.        At appraisal, a small portion of project funds was not allocated
to specific project components. These funds will serve as a reserve to
meet specific needs that may arise during implementation. These needs
include:
(a) obtaining foreign specialist assistance for workshops or for
financing other domestic or overseas training activities that
would benefit project implementation staff or laboratory
personnel from groups of laboratories;
(b) equipment, spare parts or maintenance required by an individual
laboratory unexpectedly or on an emergency basis, for which no
other funding is available, provided that the request is
reviewed and approved by the PAG, the SPC expert group, or other
appropriate scientific group;
(c) undertaking special studies or project preparation activities,
as agreed by PAG and implementing agencies.
2.        Proposals to spend more than $50,000 in discretionary funds on a
single item or activity would be sent to the Association for review in
advance. Expenditures of all discretionary funds would be reported in
annual reports. Normal Bank procurkment procedures would be followed for
all such procurement.



tWNA
Key Studies Devetowment Pro ect
Project Implementation Schedute
I               l             _~~ ~ I         ,I                                  I                     II
CY                             |        1991                  1992                  1993                  1994                  1995                  1996
Quarter                       3I   tI  III  IV  *  I   II  III  IV  |  I   II  III  IV  |  I   II  III  IV  I  I   II  III  IV                  I   II  III  IV
Loan Processing
Negotiations             I                     I                     I                     I                     i                     I
Board Presentation       | X                                         I                     I                     I i                                          I
Signing                  I X                                         I i                                         I                                            i
Effectiveness            | X
Completion               I                     I                     I                                           I                  XI
Closing                  I                     I                     I                     I                     I                     i        X
PCR                                            I                     I                                                                                   X
Civil Works                     -- --------------- ---------------------
Eaui~nentIIIII
Prequatification          ------------>
Bidding/Award                          . ......------------------------------  > 
Delivery                 I-------------------------------------------------------->1                                                   1
Books and Materials                          - -     ---- ------------------------->1  --                            >I
Training and Soecialists                            --------------------------------------I-
Graduate Educatie..O and                         ---I      -------------------        ------ - ----  -->I
Laboratory Operations
onitorina and Evaluation                             I                     I                                           I                     I                      I
Annuat progress reportsl                       I             X               X                           X               K X                                                Z
Mid-term Review          j                     I                     |            X                                                                                         X
Accreditation of SKLs  |                       I                     I                     I                     I            X        |



- 74 -
ANNEX 12
CHIN
KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
1.   Guidelines for the "Key Studies Development
Project" Using the World Bank's Loans, State
Planning Commission
2.   Outline for Laboratory Research Funding
Proposals, November 1989
3.   Cost and Financing of the Laboratory Development
Component by Yip Hak Kwong, May 1989
4.   Pilot Laboratory Management Program by
N. Stewart McIntyre, September 1989
5.   Comments on Proposed National Computer Network
Facilities by Sidney Karin, May 1989
6.  A General Appraisal Report submitted by the
Expert Panels of the State Planning
Commission on the Sixth World Bank Loan for
a Project to promote the "Development of Key
Academic Disciplines", May 1989
7.   Research Fund Analysis of Key Studies Project
Laboratories, State Planning Commission, November 1989
8.   Draft Monitoring Report and Performance Indicators
(as agreed at negotiations), April 1990



KEY STUDIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Structure
Government
Funding
Government Key Studies
Development Program
X  '                T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
|Laboratory ||Pilot Laboratory |                              Demonstration ||National|
Component                      Management                       Computer                    Computer
_                       ~~~~~~~Program                   Network                     Facility
 ~~~Government
implementing
Agencies
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i
UNDP
ci 
TA                                      - Assistance
0L
0.                                                                                                    I-~~~~~~~~~~~DACeitSpo



U. S.S. IL
ULAANUATAR,
usS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) H,no t_   
MONGOUlA
0~~~~~~~~~~~
-.               Hdi, IJ    .  \ $   t3  r , " 'I 
HOR[plUKRE
2 3 . y / !.  :.3  .  _
NEPAL        v                                                          7HfJMNGn 3
. CHINA                                 .                    w l t<   -            c-
KEY STUDIES DEV'ELOPMENT PROJECT                   g     r          SoA                            W
Project Laboratories   ;/ ,< _O PAFI
A rsao L                                             ts 3          UJL
Gfi   ,,                  5< fta  YIET NAM    y er
-l                          , THA  DEM.,     i       ,   ,,      



