Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/,AI  3zoz-ko
Report No. 8204-KO
A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 23, 1990
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 = W 692
(March 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS
CNB       -  Citizens National Bank
DTS       -  Division of Technology Service
GEC       -  Genetic Engineering Center
IBK       -  Industrial Bank of Korea
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
KAIST     -  Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KDB       -  Korea Development Bank
KIER      -  Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
KIET      -  Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KIT       -  Korea Institute of Technology
KLB       -  Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KOSEF     -  Korea Science and Engineering Foundation
KSRI      -  Korea Standards Research Institute
KTAC      -  Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC      -  Korea Technology Development Corporation
KTIC      -  Korea Technology Investment Corporation
LIO       -  Loan Implementation Office (KIER)
1OST      - Ministry of Science and Technology
3&M       -  Operation & Maintenance
OSROK     -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
PPAR      -  Project Performance Audit Review
R&D       -  Research and Development
S&T       -  Science and Technology
SMI       -  Small and Medium Industry
SMIB      -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC     -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF     -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
TDR       -  Technology Development Reserve
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................    iii
I.  INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA.                          1
A. Introduction.                                                      1
B.   Research and Development Infrastructure .................        2
C.   The Development of R&D Personnel ............ . ...........      3
D.   Policies for Promoting Research and Development.                 5
E.   Bank's Role in Technology Development and Skills                 8
Advancement.
II. THE PROJECT.10
A. Origin of the Project.10
B.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope .................    10
C.   Project Description ..........................,,.,,.    11
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEENTATION   .          .11
A.   Costs .............11,,,,,............ ll
B.   Financing ........,,,.............................    19
C.   Project Management and Implementation .20
D. Environmental Impact .                                            23
E.   Impact on Women ......................, .            .......    23
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................,,,,.........    24
A.   Benefits ........................                                24
B.   Risks ........................                                  24
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION        ..24
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during June 1989 and an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. W.E. Rees
(mission leader), S. Z. Sung and J.J. Stewart (consultants), which visited Korea
during October 29 - November 10, 1989.
This c xcument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents ma) not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component ........................   17
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ..........   18
3.3  Financing Plan ...............................................   19
3.4  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category ..................   21
ANNEXES
1.   Organization Chart - Ministry of Science and Technology
2.   Organization Chart - Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology
3.   Organization Chart - Genetic Engineering Center
4.   Organization Chart - Korea Standards Research Institute
5.   Organization Chart - Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
6.  Detailed Project Costs
7.  Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
8.   Implementation Schedule
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP



- iii -
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:     Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)
Genetic Engineering Center (GEC)
Korea Standar-ds Research Institute (KSRI)
Korea Institute of Energy and Resources (KIER)
Amount:            US$31.6 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description:     The project continues Bank assistance to technology
advancement in Korea. The broad aim of the project is to
improve the research capacity of Korea's leading graduate
school in science and engineering and strengthen R&D
capacity in the fields of biotechnology, standards
measurement and in energy and resources development and
conserv.tion. The project would finance specialized
equipment (base cost, US$31.6 million) and complementary
inputs comprising facilities to house some of the equipment
(US$2.9 million) and the costs of installation, consumable
materials and O&M expenditures (US$4.6 million) for four
national institutions which play important roles in Korea's
industrial/technological development--KAIST, GEC, KSRI, and
KIER. The project would: (a) improve the quality of
research at KAIST by updating research equipment and
providing state-of-the-art equipment to strengthen research
programs; (b) strengf-hen the R&D capacity of GEC and raise
the quality of its support to the biotechnology industry;
(c) enhance the ability of KSRI to improve national
measurement standards and to provide technical support to
industry; and (d) enhance the ability of KIER to undertake
resource surveys, strengthen R&D in energy conservation and
provide technical support to industry.
Benefits & Risks:  The project would strengthen industrial R&D and raise the
quality of training of high-level R&D personnel. It would
also strengthen the design and application of national
measurement standards which would contribute to improving
the quality of industrial products. This would be
particularly beneficial for export products. Lastly, the
project would contribute to strengthening resource survey
techniques and improve R&D in energy conservation thus
contributing to a more efficient utilization of scarce
resources especially those related to energy generation.
There are no major risks associated with the project.



- iv -
Project Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ million -----
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology                          1.1      12.1       13.2
Genetic Engineering Center                         1.4      4.3        5.7
Korea Standards Research
Institute                                       3.1       6.5        9.6
Korea Institute of Energy
and Resources                                   0.9       9.7       10.6
Baseline Cost                                6.5      32.6       39.1
Contingencies
Physical                                        0.6       3.3        3.9
Price increase                                  0.5       2.3        2.8
Subtotal                                     1.1       5.6        6.7
Total Project Cost /a                        7.6      38.2       45.8
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
----- USs million -----
Government                                         7.6      6.6       14.2
IBRD                                                -      31.6       31.6
Total                                           7.6      38.2       45.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                                          1991   1992   1993   199(
------ US$ million ------
Annual                                             6.2   14.3    8.1    3.0
Cumulative                                         6.2   20.5   28.6   31.6
/a  Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$2.6 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:   Not applicable
M:   IBRD No. 22116



KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
I. INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA
A. Introduction
1.1      Industrialization began in earnest in Korea with the inauguration of
the First Five Year Plan in 1962. At that stage, per capita GNP was less than
US$100 and primary industries accounted for 65Z of total employment with only
about 7Z employed in manufacturing and mining. The initial thrust towards
industrialization was built around the development of labor-intensive light
industries (textiles, footwear, apparel, plywood) aimed at import replacement
and the development of export capacity. At the same time, increased emphasis
was given to developing basic industrial infrastructure through investments in
e3ectrical -ower generation, trans-crtation. ^nd co=.unications and in the
production of basic industrial goods (cement, fertilizers, refined oils) that
were previously imported. Towards the end of the 1960s, labor-intensive
export industries such as consumer electronics and synthetic textiles were
well-established.
1.2      The 1970s saw a shift in industrial strategy towards the rapid
development of capital-intensive heavy and chemical industries - machinery,
shipbuilding, iron and steel, non-ferrous metals and petrochemicals. This
stage movea industry beyond the simple assembly of products towards the import
and adaptation of more complex production technologies. The 1980s has seen a
further shift towards knowledge-intensive high technology industries
(precision machines, fine chemicals, biotechnology, industrial electronics) as
Korea has sought to maintain its momentum in high valae-added industrial
production and preserve its competitiveness in export markets. Underlying
this trend has been an increasing emphasis on creating the capacity for
technological innovation which has been reinforced by the growing concern
about the reluctance of leading industrial countries to continue to export
advanced technology to an increasingly successful competitor.
1.3      Underlying the restructuring of Korean industry towards high
technology-intensive production have been three major developments--the rapid
growth of an industrial research and development (R&D) infrastructure. the
expansion of training of scientists and engineers in the :niversitie. and the
development of a framework of policies and incentives to encourage the private
sector to expand R&D activities. Taken together, these developments form an
R&D strategy which has been the underpinning of Korea's spectacular
achievements in rapid industrialization. The strategy has resulted in an R&D
system which reserves an important role for the public sector but gives to the
private sector the major responsibility for R&D activities. Reinforcing this
is the continuous expansion and quality improvement in the universities,
especially at the graduate level, which is ensuring an increasing supply of
key high-level scientific and engineering personnel to staff the research
institutes and graduate schools.



- 2 -
B. Research and Development Infrastructure
1.4      The basic infrastructure of industrial R&D in Korea consists of three
components--the public sector research institutes, universities and private
sector research institutes. The growth of R&D in Korea was led by the public
sector research institutes which served key sectors such as electronics,
energy and machinery. The institutes were established to concentrate scarce
teclhnological manpower and optimize its utilization, strengthen the
technological infrastructure and, as centers of excellence, to stimulate R&D,
provide technical advice and services to 4ndustry, and to encourage the return
of Korean scientists and engineers working overseas. By 1981, sixteen
institutes had been established but their ability to meet industry's rapidly
growing and increasingly complex needs for research support was limited.
Financial and human resources were spread too thinly over too many
institutions and there were overlaps in some R&D fields. A consolidation
program in 1981 reduced the number of institutes to nine.l/   The system is
now more clearly focussed on industry's needs but there is still considerable
scope for improving staffing and equipment needs in order to adequately meet
industrv's nepds fnr adv4rp And tprhniral cpruic-.  Tn rocnrnc-,  mnfo
institutes now have staffing and re-equipment plans under implementation.
1.5      Direct links with industry are also being strengthened through
improved outreach programs focussed especially on small and medium industries
(SMIs).  Many institutes have set up special outreach divisions to expand and
improve the provision of services to industry. To strengthen further the
links between industry and the institutes, the Government initiated a program
of "national projects" in 1982.  The program is financed by the Government and
the private sector and focusses on developing technology in key strategic
areas which are beyond the capacity of industry alone. The scheme includes
both Government-initiated and industry-initiated projects, which are mainly
joint ventures between SMIs and an institute. The criteria for selecting
national R&D projects include knowledge-intensiveness, energy and resources
conservation, contribution to exports and import substitution, growth
potential, etc. Projects have been initiated so far in the fields of semi-
conductors, computers, fine chemicals and materials science. The program was
funded at US$133 million in 1988 with about 40Z being financed by industry.
The program of national projects is carefully targeted on the priority areas
of technology development and a list of appropriate research topics is updated
annually by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) which aiso is
responsible for obtaining Government approval of national projects and for
providing the Government's share of financing.
1.6      The universities have played an important, if subsidiary, role in the
growth of R&D activities. The universities have the prime responsibility for
basic research programs according to the Government's research policy which
calls for a rough division of responsibility for R&D activities between the
universities (basic research) and the research institutes and industry for
applied and developmental research. However. while the universities have a
1/ There are now 10 institutes following the recent spinoff from KAIST of
the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (para. 1.14).



-3-
preponderance of R&D personnel, limited research funds have kept per capita
research spending at only about one-quarter that of industry and the research
institutes. In 1987, the universities accounted for only 49Z of total
expenditures on basic research compared with 29? for the research institutes
and 22% for industry. Thus, the universities are not yet playing the
predominant role envisaged for them in basic research.  However, there is an
improving trend. In recent years, greatly increased public and private
support to university research has led to a rapid rise in expenditure per
researcher--since 1981 such expenditures have more than tripled. The Bank has
also played a role in this improvement under the second education sector loan
(2427-KO) which assisted in strengthening research and graduate programs in
science and technology in the universities (para. 1.30).
1.7      Although the R&D effort was largely financed initially by the
Government, tax and other financial incentives (paras. 1.21-23) were offered
from the early 1970s to encourage the private sector to undertake investments
in R&D. These began to take effect from the late 1970s and are reflected
dramatically in R&D expenditure patterns. In 1976, industry accounted for
only 25z of total R&D expenditures; this had reached 50% by 1980 and is
currently around 802. This growth is also reflected in the development of
private sector R&D institutes which increased from 43 in 1979 to 539 in 1988.
while many of these institutes are small, 29 of them have over 100 research
personnel and are concentrated maialy in electronics, coimnunications and
automobile technology. The SMIs, wlich in general lack the resources to
support research institutes, have been encouraged to create research
associations to pool scarce human and financial resources, and to take
advantage of government funds and tax incentives for R&D. In 1988, 37 such
associations were in operation, concentrated mainly in the electric.,
electronics. machinery and metals sectors. The above trends have led to a
rapid increase in total R&D expenditure, which increased from 0.62 of GNP in
1980 to 2.4Z in 1988 and is planned to reach 3Z by 1991 and 5Z by 2001.
C. The Development of R&D Personnel
1.8      The base for developing Korea's R&D personn.el is to be found mainly
in the science and technology programs in the universities. It is the outputs
from these programs, especially at the graduate level, that provide the human
resources which are essential to support the drive towards high technology
industrial development. Abc-it 100 colleges and universities offer degree
programs in science and technology with enrollments of about 360,000. This
represents about 36Z of total undergraduate enrollments.   At the graduate
level, about 21,000 students are enrolled in science and technology programs,
representing about 28Z of total graduate enrollments.
1.9      In line with the pursuit of increasing technological sophistication
in recent years, programs in science and technology in the universities have
expanded rapidly. Enrollments in undergraduate programs increased by more
than a third between 1982 and 1988 and the number of graduates almost doubled.
In the same period, even greater emphasis was given to graduate programs.
Their number increased by over 40Z and enrollments rose at a similar rate;
enrollments in doctoral programs increased at a higher rate of nearly 60?
during the period. The output of candidates with graduate degrees in science



- 4 -
and engineering has increased at an even higher rate--nearly 2.4 times between
1982 and 1988. Again, doctorates showed a still higher increase--about 3.2
times during the period. These trends are indicative of the strong emphasis
Korea is giving to producing the high-level R&D personnel necessary to support
ambitious plans for technological development. The particularly high rates of
increase in doctoral enrollments and graduates reflect both the priority for
pursuing state-of-the art technology as well as strengthening the faculty in
graduate schools of science and technology.
1.10     As the universities expanded rapidly in the seventies and early
eighties in response to economic growth, the increase in enrollments was
accompanied by declining quality. This was especially so in science and
technology programs which were heavily dependent on properly equipped and up-
to-date laboratories and highly trained faculty. Quality varies widely among
the 100 higher institutions offering science and technology programs but
standards are high in only a handful of leading universities. Elsewhere,
qualified faculty are in short supply leading to heavy teaching loads,
student/teacher ratios are too high (e.g., averaging 38:1 in engineering
colleges), expenditures on fac-lities and equiprienL *.ave niot kept pace with
enrollments and faculty research funds are limited.  The Government is
addressing these issues by expanding faculty recruitment to reach an average
student/teacher ratio of 20:1 and an average weekly teaching load of 10 hours
by 1990, increasing research funds and upgradlng laboratories.  In addition,
the Government has targeted a limited number of graduate schools to be
developed to the highest standards to support the momentum in the growth of
technology-intensive industry in Korea. Support for these efforts was
provided under Loan 2427-KO.
1.11     The growth of R&D efforts has been impressive and Korea now compares
favorably with industrialized countries in terms of the proportion of GNP
allocated to R&D. However, in terms of its endowment of R&D personnel, Korea
lags well behind the advanced countries. In spite of the rapid expansion of
graduates from science and technology programs in recent years, the number of
Korean researchers per ten thousand population is little more than one-third
the number in Japan and the United States. The Government plans to raise the
ratio of scientists and engineers from 13 per 10,000 population in 1986 to 30
per 1C,000 by 2001, a level comparable to the U.S. and Japan in 1985. To
achieve this goal, Korea will need to employ about 150,000 scientists and
engineers by 2001 compared uith 52,000 in employme:nt in 1986. Of these about
10% or 15,000 will have doctorates and will be expected to provide leadership
in advanced R&D activities. Given current output trends from science and
engineering programs, the target is feasible.
1.12     However, there will need to be a strong commitment to improving the
quality of graduates. As noted above, quality has emerged as a crucial
problem and is being addressed through programs to modernize equipment,
upgrade teaching staff and reduce teaching loads and teacher/student ratios
(para. 1.10).   At the graduate level, the move to develop a limited number of
institutions as centers of excellence will raise the standards of teaching and
produce better quality graduates. Quality will be further enhanced in the
universities through the continuing program to repatriate Korean scientists



- 5 -
and engineers. The program, financed by the Government (and assisted under
Loan 2427-KO), has attracted over 1,500 senior personnel, many of whom have
entered teaching and research positions in the leading universities.
1.13     An improvement in the quality of faculty, at least in terms of the
numbers holding doctorates. is already evident. Currently bout 62X of
graduate school faculty have a doctorate compared with around 502 in the early
eighties. Contact hours for faculty are also declining. Historically these
have been high in graduate schools of science and technology, averaging around
12-15 hours. However, the average had been reduced to about 11 hours per week
by l9V7 through expanded faculty recruitment programs and a target of 10 hours
per week is expected to be achieved by 1990. Efforts to improve the viability
of programs are also underway. Many graduate programs are undersize in terms
of enrollments and faculty and therefore lack the "critical mass" to be viable
teaching and research units. Graduate programs averaged 15 students in 1988,
unchanged from the figure in 1982. This means that as the number of programs
expanded rapidly in the eighties (para. 1.9), there was little concentration
on expanding large programs but rather a prcliferation of small ones. The
GovejirentL's pulicy of concentrating resources in a iimited number of graduate
schools to ensure high quality and cost effective performance in teaching and
research will help to alleviate the problem.
1.14     Although the universities are responsible for training most of the
manpower for the science and technology sector, one other institution also
plays a crucial role in training high-level scientists and engineers, namely
the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology. KAIST operates under
the supervision of the Ministry of Science and Technology and over the years
has developed into Korea's leading center of excellence for graduate education
and research in science and technology. Due to rapid growth in the education
and research parts of KAIST, the Government decided in June 1989 to divide the
institution into independent parts - the research part becoming the Korea
Institute of Science and Technology and remaining on the Seoul campus, with
the education part (at present retaining the designation KAIST) moving to a
new campus, recently completed at Daeduk. Although KAIST is now a center for
graduate education in science and engineering, a strong commitment to research
will continue as an integral part of graduate programs. This commitment. will
help to ensure that top quality faculty will be attracted to Daeduk. The
Daeduk campus will be assisted under the proposed project.
D. Policies for Promoting Research and Development
1.15     In the late 1960s, the Government began to focus on the need for
restructuring industry towards more technology-intensive fields as the
prospects for further expansion of labor-intensive industries became more
limited. To achieve this objective, the Government created an elaborate legal
and institutional framework which established an important public sector role
in coordinating and carryinig out R&D programs, provided incentives for the
private sector to expand investments in R&D, strengthened and expanded the
provision of credit to finance R&D programs in the private sector and placed
special emphasis on developing technology-based small and medium industries.



- 6 -
1.16     The process started in 1967 with the establishment of the Ministry of
Science and Technology as the central agency charged with planning and
coordinating the development of science and technology (S&T). MOST has
diverse responsibilities as implied in its organization chart (Annex 1) but
three activities are crucial in defining its impact on S&T planning, personnel
development and oversight of public sector industrial R&D activities. First,
the key to MOST's planning function is the preparation and implementation of a
five year S&T plan which complements the five year national economic plan.
The close links between the two plans ensure that the S&T plan reflects the
country's economic and development priorities and also that the economic plan
takes full account of the investment requirements in science and technology.
MOST is also responsible for long range planning and strategy in S&T to the
year 2000. Major priority areas have been identified in which R&D investments
will be concentrated such as microelectronics, specialty chemicals,
biotechnology etc. The long range plan provides the framework for the five
year plans which define the R&D programs necessary to meet the long term
objectives.
1.17     Second, MOST plays an important role in the development of scientific
and technological personnel. It is responsible for forecasting the demand for
scientists and engineers and proposing appropriate supply strategies.
Regarding the latter, MOST advises the universities on program development and
enrollment strategies. MOST also has a direct impact on high-i vel education
in science and technology through its oversight of KAIST, the premier
institution for graduate teaching in S&T, and the Korea Institute of
Technology (KIT), a center of excellence for the undergraduate teaching of
scientifically gifted children. Third, MOST has oversight of the public
sector industrial research institutes (para. 1.4) which gives it the
responsibility for approving their budgets and staffing levels and for
evaluating their annual performance. MOST also influences the direction and
type of research undertaken by the institutes through its responsibility for
approving, monitoring and evaluating national research projects (para. 1.5)
and for financing the Government's contribution to these projects.
1.18     To foster research and improve science and technology education, the
Korea Science and Engineering Foundation (KOSEF) was founded in 1977 to
provide research grants for basic and applied research and to finance graduate
research fellowshins and fellowships for advanced study abroad. KOSEF employs
rigorous selection procedures for financing research projects including peer
review groups and outside consultants. KOSEF regularly reviews major research
fields to ensure that the overall direction of its research funding is
consistent with development priorities.  KOSEF receives its resources from
several sources--income from an endowment fund, budget allocations under the
auspices of MOST and donations. (KOSEF also received assistance under Loan
2427-KO.) The growth of KOSEF's budget in recent years reflects the high
priority given to R&D in Korea. From Won 6.3 billion in 1981, KOSEF's budget
had reached nearly Won 20 billion by 1986 and is planned to reach Won 100
billion by 1992.
1.19     At the other end of the R&D spectrum, the Korea Technology
Advancement Corporation (KTAC) was established in 1974 to commercialize
technologies developed by public sector research organizations. KTAC serves



- 7 -
as the link between researchers and entrepreneurs by translating R&D projects
into practical applications. It also carries out feasibility studies and
offers technical and managerial outreach services. KTAC assists in the
establishment of new technology-based enterprises through joint investment
with business partners. KTAC had investments in 25 projects valued at Won 4
billion in 1987.
1.20     As Korea entered the stage of mass production, the standardization of
products became an increasingly important requirement. As export markets
opened, quality improvement became crucial to export expansion. The rising
complexity of technology in Korean industry was accompanied by an increasing
neqd for greater precision in measurement technology. In response to these
trends, the Government established the Korea Standards Research Institute
(KSRI) in 1975 to maintain and improve the national standards system, to
conduct R&D on precision measurement technology and to provide technical
support to industry. There is clear recognition that national measurement
standards are crucial determinants of the level of technological achievement.
Thus as Korea continues on its path of high-technology based industrial
development, national measurement standards must continue to improve
accordingly, with tolerance limits narrowing continuously towards the levels
of Korea's major competitors. To keep abreast of overseas trends, KSRI
maintains close relations with the standard institutions in the major
industrialized countries.
1.21     While creating a role for the public sector in technology
development, the Government decided that the main effort in expanding R&D
should be the responsibility of the private sector, although in the mid-
seventies the latter accounted for only about 25Z of total R&D spending. The
Government therefore set out to establish incentives for the private sector to
develop an R&D capability and to expand credit for financing R&D programs,
especially in risky fields. The center-piece of the incentive system is the
Technology Development Reserve (TDR) which was set up under the Acceleration
of Technology Act in 1972. The TDR allows companies to set aside up to 307 of
profits or 1.5Z of revenues which are tax exempt provided the funds are used
for a MOST-approved R&D program. Other tax incentives include tax credits for
technological upgrading and the commercialization of R&D results, reduced
duties on imported R&D equipment, accelerated depreciation for R&D related
capital investment and tax deductions for current expenditures (e.g. training)
on R&D.
1.22     The provision of credit specifically for R&D activities was
inaugurated in 1976 when the Korea Development Bank (KDB) launched its program
of Technology Development Loans. Lending volume increased rapidly and had
reached Won 92 billion by 1987. Complementing KDB's operations has been the
rapid rise of venture capital financing for technology development. From a
base of almost zero in 1980, 27 venture capital firms are now operating with a
lending volume which had reached Won 140 billion in 1987. The leading
institution involved in venture capital financing is the Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) which has played a particularly important role
in financing risky R&D programs and is the beneficiary of three Bank loans
(2112-KO, 2473-KO, 2913-KO). It also has a broader role in promoting



-8-
industrial technology through identifying and appraising R&D projects
initiated by industry as well as in supplying credit.
1.23     In developing financing arrangements, the Government has placed
strong emphasis on technology development among SMIs in order to enhance their
capacity as suppliers of parts and materials to large industrial enterprises
and to allow them to develop as exporters in their own right. The SMIs are
served by the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF) and two
specialized banks--the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK) and the Citizens
National Bank (CNB). The SMIPF was established to improve access to long-term
credit which it provides at slightly below-market rates. The IBK serves small
and medium enterprises while the CNB is restricted to small enterprises (less
than 100 employees) as well as household consumers. The two banks finance
about half the SMIs' long-tern, capital requirements. Short-term financing is
provided mainly by the commercial banks which are required to allocate about a
quarter of their incremental lending to SMIs. A loan guarantee scheme for
SMIs is also available through the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund.
E. Bank's Role in Technology Development and Skills Advancement
1.24     The Bank has supported technology development through direct
assistance in promoting R&D as well as through an active dialogue with
Government on technology policy and institutional issues. The Bank's first
direct involvement in technology development was in 1979 with Bank financing
for the Electronics Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO) which aimed at
strengthening the capacity of the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
(KIET) to lead industry in acquiring and developing semiconductor technologies
and provide support services in R&D, technical training and the identification
of overseas market opportunities. The project completion report (PCR) for the
project indicates that the rapid development of the private semiconductor
industry in the early 1980s largely obviated the need for the services that
KIET aimed to supply. As a result, KIET did not become a profit-making, self-
financing institution with a leadership role as envisaged at appraisal.
Nevertheless, the PCR concludes that KIET probably did play a useful catalytic
role in showing the Korean electronics industry that the acquisition of
advanced technologies and capabilities was feasible.
1.25     Assistance to the electronics industry was followed by two projects
which provided direct support for strengthening SMIs. Loan 2215-KO assisted
the Small and Mediuri Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) in expanding
technical assistance and training services to SMIs in the machinery subsectors
and in she provision of credit to SMIs through several financial
intermediaries. The PCR indicates that the credit component was not fully
disbursed due to the availability of local credit at more competitive rates.
However, the technical assistance and training components were implemented
satisfactorily although the loan allocation for the latter was underutilized
due to the availability of bilateral grant funds. Loan 2515-KO provided
further support to SMIPC's technical assistance and training activities and
assistance for expanding and improving credit services and strengthening
subcontracting arrangements between SMIs and large contractors. The draft PCR
indicates that over 802 of the loan was cancelled due to the availability of
local and overseas funds at more competitive rates. The technical assistance
component was only partially successful due to the reluctance of SMIPC's
clientele to hire and pay for foreign experts. The PCR concluded that the
loan was untimely and excessive in amount.



1.26     Three loans to KTDC (Loans 2112-KO, 2473-KO, 2913-KO) sought to fill
a gap in the financial system by providing assistance for risky technology-
intensive industrial R&D projects. The IFC has also made an investment in the
Korea Development Investment Company (KDIC), a venture capital company which
invests, inter alia. in the commercialization of new technology. These
technology-financing projects are in line with Bank recommendations to move
industrial policy away from one in which the Government takes the lead in
"picking winners" towards one which emphasizes intervention in functional
areas such as R&D and the development of SMI and venture capital, where market
imperfections and externalities exist.
1.27     The Bank has provided more general support for financing industrial
development and assisted in strengthening financial intermediaries providing
long-term resources for industrial enterprises. The Bank has lent about
US$1.4 billion through these intermediaries.2/ Project completion reports and
PPARs available for a n-mber of these projects conclude that in general
projects were efficiently implemented and that the Bank's objectives of
resource transfer and institution building were achieved satisfactorily.
Underlying these operations, the coLitinued dialogue between ti.e Bank and the
Government on Korea's industrial development has resulted in the preparation
of a number of important reports including Managing Korea's Industrial
Transition (Report No. 6138-KO; July 31, 1986). This report helped the
Government think through its program for trade and financial sector
liberalization as well as industrial policy.
1.28     To complement direct assistance and financial and institutional
support for technology development, the Bank has financed six loans to assist
the development of technical manpower. The restructuring of industry towards
more skill-intensive, high-technology production requires the continuous
expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Bank lending in education has
closely paralleled the increasing sophistication of the Korean economy. The
Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/credits, focussed on
the development of vocational and technical education at the secondary and
postsecondary levels to build a firm base to the system for producing
technical manpower. PPARs for these projects concluded that they were ir.
general well-conceived and successfully implemented. The reports also
concluded that future projects would benefit from: (a) advanced project
preparation before approval; (b) improved local management procedures to
expedite procurement; and (c) greater focus on policy-analysis aad evaluation.
These lessons were built into the two subsequent operations which were policy-
oriented sector loans.
1.29     The first education sector loan (Loan 1800-KO), concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and
2/  Nine loans for $528.3 million have been made to KLB, five loans for
$482.5 million have gone to KDB; SMIB has received four loans for $205
million and two loans for $60 million have been made to CNB. Loan
2215-KO (SMI machinery) allocated $59 million through SMIB ($29
million), KLB ($20 million) and CNB ($10 million).



- 10 -
institutional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning,
equipment maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan
(Rtport No. 7252; May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learnt were:
(a) a stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to
successful implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led
to a quicker and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities;
and (c) the additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of
more efficient implementation.
1.30     The second sector loan (Loan 2427-KO), which incorporated these
lessons, supported improvements in graduate education in science and
engineering, upgraded secondary school and college science programs, expanded
graduate research programs and improved sector management, manpower monitoring
and strengthening the financial base of private educational institutions.
Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it closed on schedule (June
30, 1989) with its major policy objectives having been achieved. A PCR is
currently under preparation. The recently approved first Technology
Advancement Project (Loan 3037-KO) combines assistance to improve science and
engineering education with strengthening the R&D capacity of two national
research institutes. The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector is
documented in the OED report titled Review of the Impact of World Bank Lending
for Educational Development in Korea (Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1      The Government included the project in its FY90 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
December 1988. A Bank mission identified the project in March 1989. Most of
the preparation work was completed by the Government according to guidelines
formulated by the Bank. The project was preappraised in June 1989 and
appraised in November 1989.
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope
2.2      The Bank has been assisting technological development in Korea over
the past decade in a series of operations which have been consistent with the
Government's priorities. The Bank inter alia has provided direct support to
SMIs and substantial assistance in financing risky R&D projects; major
assistance has also been provided for the development of technical and
scientific education including two sector loans which have contributed
significantly to developing a sound policy environment in the sector. The
Bank recently became involved in direct support for national research
institutes. The proposed project continues assistance in these areas by
addressing the needs of four national institutions which the Government has
identified as requiring additional quality-improving investments and which the
Bank, with its long experience of assistance to education and technology
development in Korea, is well-qualified to provide. Furthermore, since Bank



- 11 -
experience in lending for technology development in other countries is
relatively limited, the project offers an opportunity for the Bank to learn
lessons from the Korean experience which can be utilized elsewhere.
2.3      The broad aim of the project is to improve the research capacity of
Korea's leading graduate school in science and engineering and strengthen R&D
capacity in the fields of biotechnology, standards measurement and in energy
and resources development and conservation. The project would assist in
strengthening Korea's research capability in high-technology fields, enhance
the development of national standards to ensure the quality of industrial
products and contribute to more efficient energy utilization in an economy
poor in basic resources. More specifically, the project would finance
specialized equipment through the Bank loan and complementary inputs (civil
works, consumables, etc.) to be financed by the Government to:
(a) improve the quality of research at the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology (KAIST) by updating research equipment and
providing state-of-the-art equipment to strengthen research programs;
(b) strengthen the R&D capacity of the Genetic Engineering Center (GEC)
and the quality of its support to the biotechnology industry;
(c) enhance the ability of the Korea Standards Research Institute (KSRI)
to improve national measurement standards and to provide technical
support to industry; and
td) enhance the ability of the Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
(KIER) to undertake resource surveys, strengthen R&D in energy
conservation and provide technical support to industry.
C. Project Description
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (Estimated baseline cost,
US$ 13.2 million)
2.4      KAIST is the leading center of excellence for the graduate training
of scientists and engineers. In September 1989, KAIST moved from Seoul to a
new campus which has been constructed at the Daeduk Science Town near Taejon.
The campus will be adjacent to the Korea Institute of Technology (KIT - being
assisted under Loan 3037-KO) which will serve as the major source of student
inputs to KAIST. KIT is the undergraduate center of excellence in science and
technology established specially for the education of scientifically gifted
children. Since about 80? of its graduates are expected to enter KAIST, the
latter will be assured of a guaranteed supply of high-quality entrants.
Present enrollments at KAIST are 2,581 comprising 1,155 in masters' programs
and 1,426 pursuing doctorates. About 22Z of enrollments are sponsored by
industry and the remainder by government agencies. Only 66 women (3Z) are
currently enrolled in KAIST - a proportion which reflects the traditional
reluctance of women to enter science and technology programs in the
universities. However the trend is slowly improving and female enrollments
will be boosted as KIT's special program to attract more female enrollments



- 12 -
takes effect.3/ KAIST is staffed with a highly qualified faculty of 158, all
of whom have doctorates, mainly from U.S. universities. The faculty is
supported by 118 engineering and technician staff. Both faculty and technical
support staff are increasing at about 10X per year. To ensure that the skills
and knowledge of faculty are kept up to date, about 30 individuals are sent
overseas each year for short-term training. This program is financed by
KAIST.
2.5      KAIST is divided into 15 academic departments covering the major
fields of science and engineering (Annex 2). Within the departments research
is closely integrated with teaching. KAIST's research efforts have increased
rapidly in recent years and this has enhanced the quality of graduate programs
by expanding the opportunities for graduate students to become involved in
more complex research activities. Research projects carried out by KAIST are
of three types: (a) those financed by MOST as part of the program of national
R&D projects (para. 1.5); (b) sponsored research financed by government
agencies and private firms; and (c) basic research projects financed by KAIST.
In 1988 KAIST carried out 340 research projects valued at $6.2 million with
national projects accounting for 55Z of total value, sponsored research 35%
and basic research 102. The value of research undertaken by KAIST has also
increased rapidly in recent years, growing 4.7 times in the period 1982-88.
National research projects were the fastest growing component, increasing
eight times in the period. With respect to the supply of top level R&D man-
power, KAIST is expected to play the leading role. Plans for the S&T sector
call for the employment of 15,000 scientists and engineers with doctorates by
2001 of which 4,000 will be produced by KAIST. Up to the end of academic year
1989, KAIST had produced 770 doctorate level graduates. Total enrollments at
KAIST are planned to increase to 4,000 over the next decade and with this
enrollment ceiling, the target of 4,000 doctoral graduates will be achieved on
schedule. This implies the continued change in the structure of enrollments
within KAIST from master's to doctoral programs, a trend which is already
underway. As KAIST matures as a doctorate granting institution, increasing
emphasis will be placed on post-doctoral programs, a relatively underdeveloped
field in Korea at present.
2.6      Equipment to be financed under the project (US$12 million excluding
contingencies) will be installed in the laboratories recently completed at
KAIST's new campus at Daeduk. The items of equipment have been reviewed in
accordance with KAIST's standard internal review procedures for equipment
procurement to ensure that they are relevant to the institution's priorities.
This review comes under the general supervision of the Academic Affairs and
Research Review Committee. A special Loan Review Committee under the
chairmanship of the Vice-President of KAIST will oversee allocation of the
equipment between academic departments and review any requests for
modifications to the equipment list. The equipment will strengther. the
research capacity of KAIST and therefore enhance the quality of research. It
will also raise the quality of graduate programs as students are exposed to
31 This includes visits by faculty to girls' high schools, information
packages for parents and student counsellors, and visits by female
students to KIT.



- 13 -
more advanced research. The project would also finance the costs of
transportation and installation of equipment, consumable materials and O&M
expenditures related to the equipment.
Genetic Engineering Center (Estimated baseline cost, US$ 5.7 million)
2.7      GEC was established in 1985 under the auspices of KAIST, to carry out
biotechnological research projects in a number of key areas such as food,
natural resources, energy and health. In addition to its research role, GEC
also plays the role of training center for high-level research personnel and
as a think-tank for policy-making in the field of biotechnology. GEC is
divided into four major divisions (Annex 3). Three R&D div4sions comprising
19 research laboratories are responsible for the major research projects
undertaken by GEC in such fields as microbiology, cell biology, genetic
engineering, animal and plant biology. The Division of Technology Service
(DTS) provides supporting facilities for scientists involved in teaching,
research and industry. DTS provides such services as a gene bank (including
long-term storage of micro-organisms), supply of biological specimens
(including laboratory animals) and facilities for testing newly developed
biotechnological products. The Bank-financed equipment will be ccncentrated
in DTS and will therefore contribute to strengthening both GEC's research
capacity and also research in the broader field of biotechnology through DTS's
technical support services to outside research institutes in the universities,
government and industry.
2.8      GEC has a professional staff of 121 all of whom have graduate degrees
(41X with doctorates). To maintain the knowledge and skills of staff, a
training program sends around 33 individuals overseas annually for short-term
training. This program is supported by a four-year UNDP grant valued at
US$0.25 m'illion. Consistent with the expected rapid growth of the
biotechnology sector, GEC has an ambitious recruitment program which aims to
dcuble its professional staff by 1992. Budget projections also reflect this
planned growth with GEC's budget expected to increase 2.4 times in the period
1989-92. Income from R&D projects is estimated to contribute about 60Z of the
bu.iget in 1989 and although this income is expected to double by 1992, it will
acccunt for an estimated 50Z of the budget in that year due to the rapid
projected increase of other expenditures (especially for personnel and
operations). Almost all R&D income comes from research projects financed by
MOST and the degree to which GEC diversifies into research funded by the
private sector will depend to a large extent on how fast private-sector
research institutes are created in the field of biotechnology. Even so, it is
expected that DTS will earn increasing fees as it expands its support services
to industry, especially the SMI sector which in general would lack the
resources to establish independent research institutes.
2.9      The project would include equipment estimated to cost US$4 million
(excluding contingencies) for GEC to support the upgrading of services
provided by the Division of Technology Service. The Pilot Plant Program would
receive US$2 million of equipment to assist in improving capacity for product
testing and associated data processing. The Gene Bank Program would receive
equipment estimated to cost US$0.5 million to strengthen identification and
storage capacity for micro-organisms. Equipment estimated to cost US$0.5
million would support improved quality control in the production of biological



- 14 -
specimens in the Bio-Potency Evaluation Program. Analytical instruments (US$1
million) for common usage by the above programs would also be financed under
the project. Equipment lists have been reviewed by the Equipment Procurement
Committee which represents both senior and junior scientists and operates
according to standard internal procedures for equipment procurement. The
equipment would be installed in laboratories being constructed as part of a
new campus for GEC being built at Daeduk, to which GEC will move in 1990.
Civil works estimated to cost US$1.3 million (excluding contingencies) will be
completed by late 1990 for the equipment to be financed under the project.
The project would also finance the costs of transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related to the equipment.
Korea Standards Research Institute (Estimated baseline cost, US$9.6 million)
2.10     KSRI was established in 1975 as the central authority of the national
standards system. Its role is to conduct comprehensive R&D activities on
measurement standards and measurement technology, to dissemi..ate the results
and to provide technical services to industry. The operational structure of
KSRI is divided into five divisions and a specialized center (Annex 4). The
three metrology divisions are responsible for maintaining national measurement
standards and developing measurement standards and techniques. The Division
of Materials Science and Chemistry focuses on developing techniques for
measuring, testing and analyzing properties and defects of materials and its
activities therefore impact on product quality, safety and environmental
standards. The Division of Technical Support tests and calibrates higb
precision instruments, trains engineers and technicians in measurement
techniques (849 in 1988), disseminates technical information and provides
technical advice and guidance, especially to SMIs. The Precision Instrument
Center is responsible for the design and testing of high precision instruments
aimed at improving the local capacity to produce precision instruments, 93? of
which are n'Jw imported. The Center is also responsible for the repair of high
precision instruments. Since measurement standards lie at the heart of
quality control and increasingly complex technology requires continued
improvements in measurement standards, KSRI plays a strategic and pervasive
role in Korea's technological advancement.
2.11     KSRI has a professional staff of 245, of which about three-quarters
have graduate degrees. This staff of researchers and engineers is supported
by 126 technicians. Staff recruitment, net of replacements, is expected to
increase at about 1OZ p.a. during 1990-92. Skills and knowledge are kept up
to date through an overseas training program which will average about 14 staff
years annually during 1989-92. The program is receiving assistance of about
US$1.6 million from the Federal Republic of Germany over the four year period.
The overall budget of KSRI is expected to increase at about 12Z p.a. during
1989-92 with revenue from R&D projects and technical services remaining
constant at around 382 of the recurrent budget. Although revenue is projected
to increase by about lIZ p.a., higher increases in expenditures on personnel
and operations will keep the revenue contribution constant. About 50Z of
KSRI's revenue is derived from national research projects and about 35? from
fees for technical services to industry.



- 15 -
2.12     Equipmert to be financed under the project is estimated to cost US$6
million (excludit., cor.tingencies).  Most of the equipment (US$3.9 million)
will be installed in the three metrology divisions to strengthen KSRI's R&D
capacity in measurement standards. In particular, the equipment would support
laboratory work in quantum physics, optics and high-temperature
superconductivity. The Division of Materials Science and Chemistry will
receive equipment (US$1.3 million) to support R&D activities in materials
testing and evaluation and in analytical chemistry. The remaining equipment
(US$0.8 million) would support mainly the activities of the Division of
Technical Support with particular emphasis on improving data collection and
management. All items of equipment have been reviewed in accordance with
KSRI's standard internal procedures for equipment procurement and are
consistent with the institution's priorities. Equipment lists are reviewed by
the Equipment Selection Committee, comprising division directors and
laboratory chiefs who make appropriate recommendations to the president of
KSRI. The equipment would be installed partly in existing laboratories (20Z)
but mainly in a new laboratory (80Z) currently under construction and due for
completion in late 1990. Civil works to house equipment to be financed under
the project are estimated to cost US$1.6 million, excluding contingencies.
The project would also finance the costs of transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related to the equipment.
Korea Institute of Energy and Resources (Estimated baseline cost, US$10.6
million)
2.13     Korea is poorly endowed with natural resources, especially those
which are potential sources of energy. While rapid industrialization has led
to a steadily rising demand for energy (at present about 1OZ p.a.), Korea's
self-sufficiency in energy sources is declining - down to 17Z in 1988. Within
this environment, KIER is charged with undertaking R&D activities in the
energy and resources sectors aimed at improving resource survey methods,
energy conservation and the development of alternative energy sources, and
improving the efficiency of energy utilization. KIER is divided into three
groups of departments covering resources, energy, and mineral development and
analysis (Annex 5). The resources group is concerned with geological mapping,
oil and mineral resource surveys and the development of improved methodologies
related to these activities. R&D is also undertaken to improve mining
technology especially related to coal. The energy group focuses on energy
conservation including the development of more efficient furnaces, boilers,
air conditioning systems, etc. and conducts surveys on the efficiency of
energy utilization. R&D projects are also undertaken in areas of new and
renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, methane gas etc. The mi.nerals
group is involved in R&D on the utilization of industrial minerals and coal,
metallurgy and the chemical analysis of minerals. All groups are involved in
the provision of technical advice and services to industry relating mainly to
testing the energy efficiency of machines and in minerals survey, testing and
analysis. In these activities, special emphasis is given to support for the
SMI sector.
2.14     KIER has a research and engineering staff of 521, of which nearly
two-thirds have graduate degrees. In addition, about 250 researchers are
employed under contract to KIER. Recruitment plans call for an increase in



- 16 -
research staff of about 10-152 p.a. over the next few years, mainly in the
fields of chemical and mecha.nical engineering. Technical assistance programs
have supported training at the doctoral level in several countries, mainly
France and Britain. ';wenty-four trainees have completed their courses (14 in
France and 4 in Britain) and 13 trainees are currently overseas (8 in France
and 4 in Britain). KIER's operating budget is projected to increase at about
8% per annum, mainly reflecting additional personnel costs. Income from R&D
projects and service fees accounts for about 212 of the operating budget and,
in the longer term, income is expected to contribute about 25Z to the
operating budget. Growth in future revenue is expected to be mainly from R&D
projects undertaken in the fields of mineral resources exploration and
industrial energy consumption. These projects will continue to be of two
kinds: (a) those with specific R&D themes which are cooperative projects
involving the Government, industry and KIER - 15 such projects were undertaken
in 1988; and (b) projects undertaken by KIER but sponsored by industry in
fields beyond the competence of individual enterprises. Fifty-three such
projects were undertaken in 1988.
2.15     The project would finance equipment for KIER estimated to cost US$9.6
million excluding contingencies. Equipment would be distributed equally among
the three groups of departments with a generally similar distribution between
the departments within the groups. Thus within KIER, the project would
support the full range of major activities undertaken by the institution
relating to resources, energy and minerals development. The equipment lists
have been reviewed in accordance with standard internal procedures for
equipment procurement to ensure that equipment items are relevant to KIER's
R&D priorities. All items of equipment have been reviewed by the Equipment
Screening Committee, comprising departmental directors and senior researchers
under the chairman.hip of the Vice-President of KIER. Although the equipment
would be allocated between departments in a much more uniform manner than in
the other project institutions, it is nevertheless important that the equip-
ment selection procedures be followed to ensure that departmental priorities
are met. The equipment would be installed in existing laboratories. The
project would also finance the costs of transportation and installation of
equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related to the equipment.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$45.8 million
equivalent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component
is summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2.
Detailed costs by component and category are given in Annex 6 and project
expenditure by year and recipient in Annex 7.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion               US$ Million        as Z of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Korea Advanced Insti-
tute of Science and
Technology                 0.9     8.5      9.4      1.1    12.1    13.2        92
Genetic Engineering Center 1.0        2.9     3.9      1.4      4.3     5.7       75
Korea Standards
Research Institute         2.1      4.5     6.6      3.1      6.5     9.6       68
Korea Institute of
Energy and Resources       0.6     6.7      7.3      0.9     9.7    10.6        92
Baseline cost                4.6    22.6    27.2       6.5    32.6    39.1        83
Contingencies
Physical                   0.4     2.3      2.7      0.6     3.3      3.9       85
Price increase             0.3     1.6      1.9      0.5     2.3      2.8       82
Subtotal                 0.7     3.9      4.6      1.1     5.6      6.7       84
Total Proiect Cost /a        5.3    26.5    31.8       7.6    38.2    45.8        83
/a  Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$2.6 million.



- 18 -
Table 3.2. SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Million             USS Million        as 2 of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Equipment                  -   21,954  21,954    -       31.6    31.6     100
Equipment trans-
portation and
installation         1,171       131   1,302    1.7      0.2     1.9      11
Civil Work.           1,612       403   2,015    2.4      0.5     2.9      17
Operation and
maintenance             727       81     808    1.0      0.1     1.1      10
Consumable materials    973       108   1,081    1.4      0.z     1.6      13
Baseline cost       4,483   22.677  27.160    6.5    32.6    39.1        83
Contingencies
Physical              449    2,267   2,716    0.6       3.3     3.9      85
Price increase        318    1,598   1,916    0.5       2.3     2.8      83
Subtotal              767    3,865   4,632    1.1       5.6     6.7      84
Total project cost    5.250   26,542  31.792    7.6    38.2    45.8        83
3.2      Base costs are estimated at March 1990 prices.  Construction costs
were provided by the Government and are based on contract awards for similar
facilities in Korea. Equipment costs are estimated on the basis of master
lists already drawn up and recent catalogue prices. Transportatior. and
installation costs are based on recent experience with these activities in the
prc,ect institutions. The initial supply of co-isumables and the costs of
operation and maintenance were estimated by the institutions using standard
procedures.   Duties and taxes, allowing for exemptions, are estimated at
US$2.6 million.
3.3      The contingency allowance of US$6.7 million (about 172 of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for esti-
mated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 102 of base-
line costs for civil works, equipment, consumable materials and O&M expendi-
tures. Price increase contingencies were calculated for both local and
foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual average price
increase percentages; foreign cost, 7.2Z in FY90 and 4.42 p.a. thereafter and
local cost, 5.0X p.a. throughout. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are
estimated at about 6.52 of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.



- 19 -
3.4      The foreign exchange component of US$38.2 million (about 832 of total
estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following
foreign exchange percentages: civil works - 202, equipment - 100!, transporta-
tion and installation - 102. consumables - 10Z, and O&M - 10.
B. Financing
3.5      The proposed loan of US$31.6 million equivalent would finance about
83Z of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 692 of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be respon-
sible for the remaining 311 or about US$14.2 .illion equivalent.  The loan
amount is limited to US$31.C million by the .-eign borrowing program and is
therefore less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would
finance 10OZ of the baseline cost of equipment, with all contingencies to be
financed by the Government.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                 Government        IBRD         Total
-----------US$ million-----------
Equipment                                  -             31.6          31.6
Equipment transportation
and Installation                          1.9            -             1.9
Civil works                                2.9            -             2.9
Operation and maintenance                  1.1            -             1.1
Consumable materials                       1.6            -             1.6
Contingencies                              6.7            -             6.7
Total                                 14.2           31.6         45.8
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6      The project would not generate any significant additional recurrent
expenditures. No additional staff would be required to utilize the equipment.
The only incremental recurrent expenditures generated when the project is
fully operational would be for consumables and operation and maintenance.
These will amount to about US$1.4 million p.a., which represents about 0.7? of
the estimated combined recurrent budgets of the four project institutions in
1992. These additional expenditures can be accommodated by the institutions
without difficulty.
C. Project Management und Implementation
3.7      Each project institution would be responsible for the implementation
of its part of the project. The institutions are autonomous bodies managing



- 20 -
their own operations under the general budgetary oversight of the Ministry of
Science and Technology. Thus MOST would play only an overall coordinating
role in project implementation. It would not become involved in day-to-day
implementation activities but would be kept informed by the Bank and the
institutions on the general progress of project implementation. MOST would
become involved directly only in project-wide issues which would require a
coordinated response from the four institutions, such as any proposed
amendment to the loan agreement, chiange of project description, preparation of
the project completion report, etc.
3.8      The project institutions are adequately staffed with experienced
personnel in accounting and procurement although GEC, KSRI and KIER have not
yet had the exposure to Bank implementation procedures that KAIST has gained
under Loan 2427-KO. However, t-ie bulk of the work in equipment procurement
would be undertaken by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK), the
procurement agency of the Government which is highly experienced in procuring
equipment under the Bank's international competitive bidding procedures. On
the basis of equipment specifications provided by the institutions, OSROK
would prepare bidding documents, invite bids, evaluate them in conjunction
with the institutions and make contract awards with the agreement of the
institutions. The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 8.
3.9      Implementation of the KAIST component would be undertaken by the
Office of Planning, with specialist assistance in procurement and accounting
being provided by the Division of Administrative Services. At GEC, project
implementation would be the responsibility of the Department of R&D Management
with specialist iaputs from the Administration Department. The Planning
Section of the Department of Planning and Research Management would be
responsible for overall project implementation at KSRI assisted by the
Accounting and Procurement Sections of the Department of Administration. At
KIER, a Loan Implementation Office (LIO) has been set up to handle the
project, with personnel being drawn from the existing staff of the Department
of Administration. Personnel in the LIO would work part-time on project
implementation but would devote as much time as necessary to ensure effective
project implementation. The Bank woald supervise the project twice yearly
around March and September which would coincide as far as possible with
preparation of the semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.16). Overall
implementation issues would be handled by the task manager with technical
aspects being the responsibility of a consultant technical educator.
Status of Project Preparation
3.10     The physical facilities required to house the equipment to be
procured under the proposed project have been completed with the exception of
the Applied Physics Department at KSRI and a few laboratories at GEC. These
will be completed in late 1990. Equipment lists and specifications have been
reviewed and found to be satisfactory. Schedules of procurement have also
been prepared. Project management authorities have been identified within the
project institutions and supporting staff are also available. The advanced
stage of project preparation would allow implementation to commence
immediately after loan signing.



- 21 -
Procurement
3.11     Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  Civil works, to be
financed by the Government, would be procured through established local compe-
titive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. About 85Z of the equipment
would be procurcd on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in contracts valued
at less than US$200,000 may be procured through international or local
shopping with an aggregate ceiling of US$5.0 million. Local equipment
manufacturers would be extended a 152 preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duties, whichever is the lower, on bid evaluation under ICB.
Transportation, operation and maintenance costs on equipment would be financed
by the Government under local procedures. Installation costs and costs of
consumables, if not included in the equipment contracts, would also be
financed by the Government.
Table 3.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure              ICB     LCB   Other /a   N/A   contingencies
------------- (US$ million) --------------
Equipment                             31.0    -       6.0     -          37.0
(26.6)         (5.0)              (31.6)
Equipment transportation
and installation                     -      -      -        2.2         2.2
;0.0)      (0.0)
Civil works                            -      3.3    -        -           3.3
(0.0)                      (0.0)
Operation and maintenance              -      -       -       1.4         1.4
(0.0)      (0.0)
Consumable materials                   -      -       -       1.9         1.9
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                           31.0    3.3    6.0       5.5       45.8
(26.6)  (0.0)  (5.0)   (0.0)      (31.6)
/a Includes international and local shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the loan.
3.12     In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK
would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior
review before making contract awards. However, complete bidding documents
including commercial terms, schedule of requirements and technical
specifications would be sent to the Bank for reference and record before each
invitation to bid. Bid evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be
retained by OSROK for selected ex-post review by Bank missions. However,
copies of bid evaluation reports and two conformed copies of contracts would
be sent to the Bank for its records.



- 22 -
Disbursements
3.13     The proposed loan of US$31.6 million would be disbursed over a period
of 4 years (Annex 9). This is less than the standard disbursement profile for
education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The proposed shorter profile
is justified on the basis of the advanced stage of project preparation (para.
3.10) and the long experience OSROK has had in procuring equipment under the
Bank's ICB procedures. The completion date of the project would be December
31, 1993 and the closing date June 30, 1994.  Disbursements would be made on
the basis of (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment or the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; and (b) 65Z of the cost of
other local expenditures for equipment. Disbursement applications involving
equipment contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent will be fully documented.
For disbursement against equipment contracts below US$200,000, reimbursement
would be made against statements of expenditure for which full supporting
documentation would be retained in the project institutions, for review as
requested, by visiting Bank missions. Administrative and accounting
capability is adeouate to support the SOE procedure.
3.14     To facilitate disbursements, special accounts, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up separately for KAIST, GEC, KSRI, and KIER at the
Korea Exchange Bank in amounts of US$1.1 million, US$0.4 million, US$0.6
million and US$0.9 million, respectively. These amounts represent the
estimated average amount required to finance project expenditures for the next
four months. Applications for replenishment of each special account would be
submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis or whenever the amount requested
exceeds 50Z of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
Evaluation
3.15     Because research projects require a combination of inputs
(researchers, equipment, consumables, computer time, etc.), it is not feasible
to evaluate the contribution of equipment to the outcomes of research projects
in isolation from the other inputs. Equipment to be financed under the
project and utilized in specific research projects would be included in the
evaluation of these projects in accordance with procedures in force in the
research institutes. Evaluation is the responsibility of a research review
committee in each institute using criteria approved by MOST. These procedures
vary depending upon whether the project is classified as a national or an
institute project. Evaluation of the latter is the responsibility of
individual institutes which apply criteria relating to the number of
publications generated by the project, number of patents awarded and the
degree to which the project has met its objectives. National projects are
subjected to similar evaluation criteria, but also are required to undergo a
mid-term review to assess whether progress has been sufficient to warrant
further funding. A final evaluation is also required for national projects
and these reports are sent to MOST for review. Funds generated from research
(patents, licensing fees, etc.) becomes an important criterion in the MOST
evaluation. The overall evaluation of research institutes is carried out by
MOST on the basis of performance reports which each institute has to submit
annually.



- 23 -
Accounts. Audits and Reporting
3.16     The Government would cause KAIST, KSRI, GEC, KIER to maintain
separate accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that audited accounts and
financial statements would be sent to tha B&nk within six months of the end of
the financial year.  The Government would sub:nit semi-annual progress reports
to the Bank in about 4Sarch and September, provide status reports for visiting
missions and, within six months of the closing date, submit a project
completion repott.
D. Environmental Impact
3.17     The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project will be located in properly
designed laboratories which operate under rigorous safety requirements.
Support for KIER will strengthen its R&D capacity in improving energy
efficiency and in renewable energy sources which in turn will have a positive
environmental impact.
E. Impact on Women
3.18     The project would have little direct impact on the status of women.
Woman are poorly represented in the R&D sector in Korea, due largely to the
traditional reluctance of women to enter graduate programs in science and
technology. However, the trend is improving. The output of women from
graduate programs in non-medical science and engineering programs nearly
doubled between 1982 and 1988 although the numbers are still small --473 in
1988 or 72 of total outputs. Some universities are now becoming more
sensitive to the need to increase the enrollment of women in science and
engineering programs. For example, the Korea Institute of Technology, which
is being assisted under the Bank's first Technology Advancement Project, has
introduced a program aimed at attracting more women students (para. 2.4).
Since KIT is the major source of student entrants to KAIST, female enrollment
in the latter will be boosted in due course as KIT's special program takes
effect.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The project would raise the quality of research at KAIST which in
turn would strengthen KAIST as a leading research institution in science and
technology. The quality of graduate education associated with the research
programs would also be improved. Improved technical support to the bio-
technology industry would result from the strengthening of GEC's R&D capacity.
The project would also strengthen the design and application of national
measurement standards which would contribute to improving the quality of
industrial products. This would be particularly beneficial for export
products. Lastly the project would contribute to strengthening resource
survey techniques and would improve R&D in energy conservation, thus
contributing to a more efficient utilization of scarce resources especially
those related to energy generation.



- 24 -
B. Risks
4.2      There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.l.     The Government has agreed to the following:
(a)  audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank within
six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.16);
(b)  semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to the Bank around
March and September and status reports provided to visiting missions
(para. 3.16); and
(c)  within six months of the closing date, a project completion report
would be submitted to the Bank (para. 3.16).
5.2      Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$31.6 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea
for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Orgation Chart
Ministy of Science and Technology
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ao .lndg I                            in 
AoIrer Ie                                                                        I 
I~~~~~~~~ Poky  _,IiDi,IIi
Cal=~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ielo  ea
Gowal AN&*  To"dkua.                       _ _oopersio
~~~~~~~~E=                          %-                   mom  Po T
Com  k.                         D|ac  ( T  | 
_   Eewoy and  |*                 (orga_hauon    r u Ie AdnIhisbaave CGond of NIO )
*  KAIST. KAM, KEF. KSRI. KUM. ETR                             e'
(&kSudy Orgnlalon to MOST)                        KRKCT, KOTfR. KIT. KOSEF
r        1                        ,            .~~~~~~~~ Kotzg Sd  ande NEn&wh  PtwKam nwAe4*
Curilial  Nalonal ScDIenceience                     0    e
MWeteorIc l   l NajonalSclTownAdennIaWadn    0   Kime" kilai Techowlogy Promolo Sode
|   ServIce                                                    *     u lc             ftg w Reonarl    AaeRAWo  (23)
*  Kora FedeaIn of Sdnce and Tecw%g Sodale 1181)
*  Kotea Technolo  Develpimel Coiorallon
EKiW4.



ANNEX 2
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
Chwm,*WI  nZ$In Of 
0"MAWAm
r_Study            _ ftXil
Deain of
_Research
* Dept of Phpice
,Reviw  Car a tttoo                             * Dept of BChe .     ien    & Erikstor
* Dept of Applied mth Smcies
.  Dept of Chemstry
a D pt of Mngmn t  SIcic
* Dept of Micharia  EnonerU s
Pr aKdent                         *Dept of hmwtria Ennrkv
* Dept of ProdLuctIn Fnneer
* Dept of Materials Science & Ervewwg
|    11a Mnawn                                    * Dept of Electrical Engreeet
* Dept of Computer scienc
* Doept. of Cm Enc1eew6
* Dept. of Nuclea Engneerig
* Dept. of Che"l En _neering
* Deptot Aerospace En0neerwl
0 Dept of Hiumaries & S8cns
Chancea  tor         * Dept of Idsstril Deslgn
_Study
Dan of
Academic
Affairs
Dean of
Studnt
Affam
L~L
Dfrectotb
Aonwutraction,       
c Dr MT21



ANIEX 3
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Genetic Engine*ring Contor
Moacdr BiOOy Lab.
Divisim of        ~~Molecular QonUCik Lab.
_C4*r                         EuiarYtUr Gone LAb.
Reaeah
Review                                                  ShwtrLa&-
Protebi Cheetry Lab.
Cd Bboboy La.
l   mumochemiltry Ls&
XoclEY  _                          _   ~~~~~~~~~Mtwobiai OoVWID  Lab.
Micr log  CwmmboEgy Lab
Executive
Director                                              d _Lb.
cm*          l M rocae Lab.
owsion of           _     Pint C4 i 8bbo  L-.
am Powc"-DwmwWB*                               b
PW  a                       Tochwfy____
Enzyme Tocholy Lab.
Metaboic Proce
, En~an La.
owumm of           ~Gene Bean ProWam
, Toby               _      lSlo-potency Evakation
Prouam
Sic-mtwi Prvion
Progam
Offie of R&D hnforratlsn
and Pocy
Office of Gera
Admvatratbo
EK/W4ea20



KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Korea Standards Research Institute
Dom OF T*9E8 1
ufwlESARCH ADVLY ClhTT                                                                _             . 
O_  ICEfC Of POUCY Su11E            f WAaamT
RsESEARCH REVIEW COATTEI                                                                            to A__ L
OFFI- Of iIHTEAflITAL COOPERATION]
FIVLSO Of PUIIMU unEOfI
EIVISION OF    OIVISION Of     OiVUltON Of                    DVEALI avsoN Of  PRECISION    DP^LA60 &    DiTA OANT T OF
I MEcIAt4A    IELECTRICAL        OUJANTLU                       TECA4CAL    RISTRUM*NTAXiON    RESEARC$  I AIIUMTHATiON
MECT)IC      L METROLOGV       METROLOGY       a       YPORT                    CENIER4
LENGII  ~~~~   ~TE&WERATLURI          ATRIL         CALIBRATION     WSRLENT         PLANeC           FFRINI         IAC&
LABORATORY                LABORATORY        ATOAOALW        CETR          AORTR
_X fEENCY                       P| opETEs        SERVICE      D01EXVELOI ENT    S     TI   L                  OPCE
r UASS    lIELECTRDICY | |         MUSTY  |        AKMS     COXPUTR  |          S RL*ENTl      IUG I |   *C>24TSd;
LABORATBORA     A     ORY |   LABORATORY      AILLATIONS        C       A f                    SECTIKX   J  WC)N   |
MATORV fORCE lLABORATFORY                   CENTE         LA A WOOfY                 J
~ACLseoaJ     UAE TICS        OPTICS                                       MANMIENENT                     PROCAMEII  -S
LABRTR    LABAOR                L ABORlATORY | qANsLUbN          OfIC O,                        SET          ___ 
1 LABORATORYJ    UM4IETICS       SCOPY" l          _          _ANAL  E
LAB3RAIODU CTY  |   & COLOR4EIR                                                           II
|LABORATORY    LORATOR        LAOR Y           L AOATRY       E       C                                   I S 
LABORATObI           QUANTIU                       LABORADSTRUCTORYO   SKSECTIO
ALABOATORY       ALATION         OfFICE OF |
I    ._____  J                   A STANDARD
LASER  ELEC           OSAER-OALC TO                     ___
LA8  CAIOY          aCCO TO        CHEbSTRY      tOfFICE Oft-
ACOUSTICS Al       LABORATORY     ~~LACORATrORY                                                 f-TAIQf
VI~~~~IRATION~~~ ~ ~                            2 REFERNCI
LABORATO| O  AATERIALS 
UADITUM       ANLTIA
LABRATRY    fLAE O                                                                ErW46 h
L IV,           o!!   ~~~AroAv~~   LADMATOiRY ~~STANDANIDI
ZATION
sT&E2Es



KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
iBoard of Tru5te      
presk int                               Auditor
Research Activities                                                      FResearch Advi
Review Commitee                                                                 Committee
vice Preswwt    Vice Preskien                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vice President for
Vice President l                    |    Vice Pte5ident         _Aneral Development
lr Resources                               for Energy                                                 and Analysis
Mechanized                  Cne                   eatet              aatet              adMtlug
_ eology _oordination Coalnistratln                                                                _Mineral                              -
Planning           Department                             ConsCoordinolioy                                                Processing            Seoul          IlIER-Vaibone
RasourcffDEGOeaortogyCt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~rg                                                                Offi .
DeDaepmantrmechnonogy                                                                                 Department
Geology                               Energy &                                                          nlss
Depat_ment                            Evironmental                                                      Refsandh
Depeartm                                                       Department
_Resourrces
Department                                           l t
Energy                                                        Analysis
Equipment                                                      Research
Marine                     ~~~~~~Department                                                Department
Resources
Department
Resources                        Solar Energy                                                         Proect 
Development                             Departm~ent                                                         Divisionz
Department
Project                                Project
Support                                Support
Divi3ron                               Division
r*d: *4406sb



KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
transportation      Civil            Consumable        Total Cost
Schools                                     Equipment   and installation    works    O&M    materials    Wton M          USS M
Korea Advanced Institute of Science
and Technology                               8,340               501            -     223         160       9,224       13.2
Genetic Engineering Center                      2,773              166          903       55          55       3.952        5.7
Korea Standards Research Institute              4,170              239        1,112      396         ?33       6,650        9.6
Korea Institute of Energy and Resources        6,671               396            -      134         133       7,334       10.6
Baseline Cost                           21,954            1,302        2,015      808       L O8l      27L160       39.1
Contingencies
Physical                                    2,195               131          201      81         108       2,716         3.9
Frice increase                              1,562               104           54      84         112       1,916        2.8
Subtotal contingencies                   3,757              235          255      165         220       4,632        6.7
Total Project Cost
Won million                          25,711            1,537        2,270      973       1,301      3l.792
US$ million                            37.0              2.2          3.3      1.4         1.9                   45.8
. . .. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



ANNEX 7
KOREA
SECOND TECF:NOLOSCY ADVANCEmENT PROJECT
Proiect Expenditure by Year  and Rocipient
Base Costs (Won million)              Total Cost
Schools                                90/91        91/92        92/93        Won m     USS m
Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology              2,257        3,819        3,147        9,223     13.2
Genetic Engineering Center             1,902        1,016        1,034        3,952       5.7
Korea Standards Research
Institute                           3,488        2,597          565        6,650      9.6
Korea Institute of Energy and
Resources                           2,401        2,445        2,489        7,335     10.6
Baseline Cost                      10,048        9,877        7,235       27,160     39.1
Contingencies
Physical                            1,005          988          723        2,716      3.9
Price increase                        250          738          928        1,916      2.8
Total Project Cost                 11,303       11,603        8,886       31,792     45.8
Foreign Exchange                    8,761       10,357        7,424       26,542     38.2



KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Implemeintation Schedule
CY:  1989   1190   I   1'   1          1992      1        19      9         11s
Bnk FY:       90         91           92           93          94_ 9T               96
Ouarter(CY): 3  4 1  2  3 4  1 2  3  4  t 2  3 4            2  3 4 1    2  3  4  1       34
CIVIL WORKS
Construction
Warranty Period
EQUIPMENT
Preparation of Equipment Usts
Writing Specifications                                    _
Preparaton of Bidding Documents
Bids Invited
Bkds Evaluated
Contracts Awarded                                                     |
Equipment Delivered, Installed & Tested                                                                          I
Warranty Period
LOAN PROCESSING & GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION                                                                       i
Negotiatlons
Board Presentation 
Loan SigningI
Effectiveness                                                       46 
z
General Procurement Notice Advertsed                                                                                                           X
Project Completion Date 
ProjectClosing Date
Prolect Competion Report n                                _  _ _                                                       j   - - _ 



ANNEX 9
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Disbursements Estimates
IBRD fiscal              Amounts per           Cumulative             Disbursement
year & semester             semester          Amount      Z            profile La
---------- (US$ million) -----
1991
1                           3.0 Lb             3.0        9               1
2                           3.2                6.2       23               3
1992
1                           6.5               12.7       43               5
2                           7.8               20.5       68              10
1993
1                           5.0               25.5       84              23
2                           3.1               28.6       94              44
1994
1                           2.0               30.6       99              70
2                           1.0               31.6      100              81
1995
1                                                                        92
2                                                                        97
1996
1                                                                       100
La Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
Lb Initial deposit in Special Account.



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
SECOND TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
a.    PReorts and StuJies Related co the SectorlSubsector
A-1*   Introduction to Science and Technology - Republic of Korea, M4OST, 19s8
A-2*   Science and Technology Handbook, MOST, 1987
A-3*   A Study on the Long Term Development Plan of Graduate Education in the
Field of Science and Engineering in Korea, MOE, July 1985
A-4*   Industrial and Technology Policy for the Sixth Five-Year Plan Period,
Kyoung-Hwi Mihn, KIET, September 1985
A-5*   Korea - Managing Industrial Transition, 2 vols. IBRD, March 1987
A-6*   Korea - Sector Survey of Science Education, IBRD, January 12, 1982
A-7*   Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea:  A
Review, IBRD Report No. 5950, December 5, 1985
A-8    Strategies and Policies of Science and Technology Development in Korea,
Hai-Sool Chin, MOST, February 1988
A-9    Technology Policies and Planning, Republic of Korea, APCTT, 1986
A-10   Promotion of Technology Transfer for Small and Medium Industry in
Korea, Han-chol Kang, KIET, 1989
A-ll   Science and Technology in Korea, Hakze Chan, KAIST, September 14, 1988
B.     Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1    Educational Research Facilities Expansion Project at the Daeduk Campus
of KAIST, October, 1988
B-2    Supplementary Comments for the Proposed Second IBRD Technology
Advancement Project, KAIST, June 1989
B-3    '89 IBRD Loan Project, GEC, March 1989
* - to be found in the Project File for the First Technology Advancement
Project (Loan 3037-KO)



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
B-4    Proposed IBRD Sccond Technology Advancement Project, GEC, June 1989
B-5    Status of KSRI, March 1989
B-6    IBRD Loan Project, KSRI, June 1989
B-7    Preparation of IBRD Loan Project, KIER, June 1989
C.     Selected Working Papers
C-1    IBRD Working Paper - Equipment



IBRD 22116
'-wts'5s7- ~~            ~          ~          ~                                                        I "i' E17                1311.-
I          __            DEMOCRATIC   PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                          1 
C"  KOREA
i \_                                                                                         ,,  I                  J 3,30 ULLUVG DO
tf - 2 j_hwa 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>~~ \ 037'3C~~~~Sll                                                              37'310
Sokcho
138.         1~~~~~~~fi14
:APAN      iPnujm,                                            >                                                               8 
JEL   (     *           aChunchon                       \~~~~~~~~~~~To9h
255                                                                                                                       Sawhok
Ineho                                                               ngt swnhnonf
[36.                                                                                                                                  36.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow. v
37.-
35.
tUbnlipo             J                        ,/  _          4             f7\7       )R o
71W~~~~ ,~ .{ C o                                                  u                    AjAirports
t            1     A                      t   O      o. S         b  \o.gi
'-''-;'..'.'.,''.    W..11,, -oh                                                                                                          le
Okk.                0..ty S i                                           t
~~~  -                                                                  Province Boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.. a
C..-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
K  0 R E A
cH     Nokd>/<                        SECOND TECHNOLOGY
S                             ~~~~ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
A      Insfltutes
Primory Roads
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads 4
34. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Roilroods Under Construction
n stta-s_wedCr ' - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
4+     Airports
w_ vnls,,"                                                              (         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Special Cities
=   m   _                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prov7ince Boundaries
cn~~~~4ore7 rb                 e~~ ~~~~hou-                                                         International Boundories
0                                                                              f  0   20    40     60     soO 801 0 120   140   160
-    r     /    2 m  J                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KiLOMET(R5
Og IllpO h O , *~~~~~~~~~0                     0   ; 460 ,    60              so00o
12S-                         12 12227-                                                    128-
FEBRUARY 1990



