Docmncnt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13473
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2512-CO)
AUGUST 24, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =    Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$ 101.2   =    US$ 1.00 (1984 average appraisal assumption)
Col$ 1,000   =    US$ 9.88 (1984 average appraisal assumption)
Col$ 113.0   =    US$ 1.00 (effective January 1, 1985)
Col$ 1,000   =    US$ 8.84 (effective January 1, 1985)
Col$ 113.6   =    US$ 1.00 (January 1, 1985 appraisal assumption)
Col$ 1,000   =    US$ 8.80 (January 1, 1985 appraisal assumption)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric system in use throughout report)
Km.  =      Kilometer (0.62 miles)
I   =     Liter (0.2642 US gallons)
m3   =      Cubic meter (264.2 US gallons)
GWWh =      Gigawatt - hour (1,000,000 KWh)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DNP         Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Department)
EAAB        Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota
(Bogota Electric Energy Company)
EMPOS       Empresa de Obras Sanitarias
(Sanitation Works Company)
EPM         Empresa Publica Municipal
(Municipal Public Works Company)
FFDU        Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Fund for Urban Development)
rNAS        Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
INSFOPAL  Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(National Institute of Urban Development)
MSP         Ministerio de Salud Publica
(Ministry of Public Health)
FINDETER  Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial
(Fund for urban and rural Development)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off ice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 24, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2512-CO!
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Colombia - Fourth Bogota Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2512-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Region. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. It emphasizes the neglect of institutional aspects,
the discontinuities associated with Bank supervision (due to staff turnover) and the long delays
associated with cofinancing.
The US$129 million loan approved on April 2, 1985, was to contribute to the on-
going infrastructure investment program of the rapidly developing Bogota metropolis. The loan
was closed on schedule, but $24.7 million were cancelled.
The project achieved most of its physical and environmental objectives associated
with providing water supply and sewerage services essential for the uninterrupted growth of
Bogota. Yet it did not improve the agency's productivity and operational efficiency. The
recommendations from the technical assistance consultants (unaccounted-for-water reduction,
management information system, financial planning, commercial operation system) were not
implemented. In particular, the project failed to implement a modern financial information
system. Neither did it enhance staff skills with respect to maintenance, data processing,
communication, instrumentation and leak detection. The financial rates of return obtained during
project execution were lower than covenanted, pointing to the inadequacy of the tariff structure
and policy.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the project's uneven achievements, and
the underlying constraints, including the politically motivated changes in top- and middle-
management positions. Overall, the project is rated as marginally satisfactory, its sustainability as
uncertain, and its institutional impact as negligible.
The lessons learnt for this project experience parallel those of recently audited
projects. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2512-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
P reface       ........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................................ii
Results ........................................................iii
Sustainability .......................................................                                                                              iv
Rate of Return .......................................................                                                                               iv
Findings  and  Lessons Learned  ...............................                                          ........................                    v
Part I                     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.       Project Identity  .......................................................                                                                   I
B.  Background .......................................................                                                                               I
C.   Project Objectives and Description ......................................................                                                       3
D.   Project Design and Organization .......................................................                                                         6
E.       Project Implementation  ........................                                      ...............................                       7
F.   Execution of Components .......................................................                                                                 8
G.       Project Risks  .......................................................                                                                      9
H.       Disbursements  .............. ..........................................                                                                     1
1.    Covenant Compliance ..................1.................................  11
J.    Project Results .......................................................                                                                        12
K.       Project Benefits  .......................................................                                                                   13
L.   Rate of Return .......................................................                                                                          13
M.    Project Sustainability  ....................                                      ...................................                          14
N.   Bank Performance and Lessons Learned .............................................                                                              14
0.       Borrower Performance  and  Lessons  Learned  ...................                                             ...................            15
P.   Bank-Borrower Relationship .......................................................                                                              16
Q.  Performance of Consultants and Contractors .......................................                                                               16
R.   Project Documentation Data .......................................................                                                              17
Part II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Executive Summary ............                                                                                                                        18
Detailed Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                                            l



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Part mll   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans .......................................................                                                                                                            25
2.  Project Timetable .......................................................                                                                                                              26
3.  Loan Disbursement .......................................................                                                                                                              26
4.  Project Implementation .......................................................                                                                                                         27
5.   Project Cost and Financing .................................                                                                      ......................                              28
6.    Project  Results .......................................................                                                                                                             29
7.   Status of Loan Covenants ...........................                                                                    ............................                                  32
8.  Use of Bank Resources .......................................................                                                                                                          33
ANNEXES ..............................................................                                                                                                            36



-i-
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2512-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the fourth Bogota water supply
and sewerage project in Colombia, financed under Loan 2512-CO for US$ 129.0 million.
The loan was approved on April 2, 1985, and the project was implemented between July
1, 1985 and June 30, 1993. The original (and final) closing date was June 30, 1993, and
at that time about 81% of the loan was disbursed and the remaining amount was canceled.
The final disbursement was made in March, 1993 with an adjustment of US$0.5 million
for the initial deposit done in March, 1994.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Country Department III, of
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreement, information gleaned from the project files, materials
obtained during the project completion mission and discussions with Bank staff, and with
the consultants who were associated with the project.
Parts I and III of this report were prepared by the Bank while Part II was prepared
by the Borrower.






-II-
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2512 - CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The main objective of the project was to provide the water supply and sewerage
infrastructure essential for the uninterrupted growth of Bogota. The project proposed to
accomplish this objective through:
a)    removing constraints to EAAB's water distribution system which caused
water shortages in the south western (mostly low-income) areas of Bogota;
b)    increasing the reliability of water supply to  Bogota through the
construction of a raw water storage reservoir (San Rafael); and
c)    improving EAAB's productivity and increasing its operational efficiency
through implementation of an Action Plan and technical assistance.
Implementation Experience
ii.    The Loan and Guarantee Agreements were signed on April 3, 1985 and became
effective in July 1, of that year. There were no special conditions of effectiveness in the
loan agreement. The loan closing date was set for June 30, 1993.
iii.   The project began at a satisfactory pace. Final designs for most of the principal
construction components (tunnel, primary distribution mains, pumping stations, storage
tanks) were ready from the beginning. However, start-up problems in bidding and
acquisition delayed the project execution and disbursements began at a slower pace than
originally expected.
iv.    Due to a 94% dramatic devaluation of the Colombian peso between 1985 and
1986, (an event not anticipated during appraisal), the Bank agreed to amend the Loan
Agreement in order to increase the percentage financed by the Loan.
v.    Besides the devaluation of the peso, the inability of EAAB to improve operating
efficiency as shown by: (a) high level of unaccounted-for water (UFW) ( 40%), (b) sharp
increase of personnel costs (average 8% yearly in real terms between 1984 and 1991), and
(c) increase of accounts receivable, caused EAAB's financial situation and cash flow



-iii-
position to weaken significantly. Frequent changes in management and principal staff (5
managers from 1988 to 1993), affected continuity in policies and programs. Problems in
contracting procedures and delays in the negotiation of the loan for the San Rafael
reservoir and pumping station (with the OECF of Japan), caused delays in the initiation of
this component of the project. At the closing date, 38% of this component had been
executed; its completion is now expected to be mid -1996. In spite of improvements in
accounting, tightening of financial and management efforts to negotiate more reasonable
terms with the labor union, tighter supervision from 1991 to 1993, and a threat of
suspension of disbursement, the Bank concluded that this loan, with 8 years of execution,
would "not represent the optimal instrument to support more fundamental institutional and
structural changes in the context of the current strategic consensus in Colombia to focus
on assuring the sustainability of basic water and sewerage services in Bogota over the next
10-15 years." The closing date was therefore not extended to allow time to complete the
San Rafael reservoir.
vi.    However, in order to facilitate an orderly closing and assist various measures and
actions undertaken by the EAAB administration to correct its structural problems
(financial, institutional autonomy, labor agreements), the Bank allowed disbursements to
continue up to December 31, 1993. It also agreed to the financing of the remainder
required for the completion of the San Rafael dam through a sub-loan from FINDETER
under the on-going Water Supply Sector loan. At the same time, the Bank began to
prepare on an accelerated basis, a new project, Santafe I, with up-front decisions and
actions to address these more fundamental issues.
Results
vii.   With the exception of the vulnerability-reduction components of the Tibito
transmission pipe-line, the project achieved most of the principal physical objectives of
providing water supply and sewerage services essential for the uninterrupted growth of
Bogota. However, it failed to improve EAAB's productivity and operational efficiency.
Although the San Rafael reservoir was not fully completed during the project, it was
designed and partially financed by the loan and the works were so advanced that their final
completion was assured (the dam was finished in April 1994, and the other works financed
by the OECF of Japan are expected to be completed in 1996.)
viii.  The project provided the infrastructure required to eliminate constraints for the
efficient use of the current production capacity. It thus eliminated a main cause of water
shortages in the south-westem area of Bogota which has a substantial concentration of
poor people.
ix.    The improvements of the water transmission and distribution mains, rehabilitation
of the water distribution system, construction of secondary water distribution mains,
sewage collectors and storm drains, and the emergency works done in 1989-1990, allowed
the extension of the services (water, sewage and drainage) to 1.8 million people. Within
this part of the project were plans to repair the 78 inch transmission main Tibito - Bogota,



-iv-
so as to more efficiently use the production capacity of Tibito plant. However, this
component was not executed; instead of the Tibito pipeline repair, the 60 inch pipeline to
Suba was done.
x.    On the other hand, increase in productivity and operational efficiency was not
achieved. The technical assistance consultants (UFW reduction, commercial operation
system, managerial information system, financial planning) carried out their tasks but for
various reasons, their recommendations were not implemented, or only partially in some
cases.
xi.   The final engineering designs for the sewerage master plan were carried out with
some delay and the works are included in Santafe-I project which is currently under
preparation. The economic, financial, institutional and land development study related to
flood control and pollution in the Bogota river was not realized. During the planning and
discussions of the Santafe loan, these studies were included to be carried out as part of the
new project.
Sustainability
xii.   The benefits obtained through the rehabilitation and improvement of the water
transmission mains and secondary network are sustainable in the future, with adequate
maintenance and within a sound institutional framework.
xii.   The sustainability of the benefits expected from institutional strengthening will
depend to a great extent on the future institutional structure approved by the Municipal
Council of Bogota.  Sustainability would be assured if EAAB is allowed to have
autonomy, independence and no political interference in personnel, budgeting, contracting
and planning. The continuity, qualification and experience of the management and staff
also will be key factors.
xiv.   The sustainability of benefits expected would be harmed if institutional issues such
as unfunded pension liabilities, UFW, adequate and sufficient maintenance, operational
efficiency, improvement in billing and revenue collections, cost accounting and financial
controls, and inadequacies of the present tariff structure and level are not satisfactorily
resolved.
Rate of Return
xv.   The rates of return obtained during the project execution were always lower than
those covenanted under the Loan Agreement (see para. 42). Figures for 1987, 1990, 1991
were reported by EAAB auditors as 3.19%, 2.05%, and 1.85% respectively (against 4%
for 1987 and 4.5% for 1988 and thereafter). In 1992 it was estimated as 2.1%. However,
if rate of return calculations were based upon fully reevaluated fixed asset and pension
liabilities, the resulting figures would be negative, reflecting the inadequacies of the tariff
structure and tariff policy and the consequent decapitalization of the productive assets.



xvi.   Low internal cash generation caused by the structural inadequacies of current
water and sewerage tariffs, high UFW rates (more than 40%), increase of personnel
cost/m3 sold (200% between 1984 and 1992), and the low billing and collection efficiency,
are the main factors which have affected the rate of return.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xvii.  An enabling institutional environment and the commitment of community
leaders, with a minimum of personal and political interference, is a critical factor for the
success of projects with public entities providing essential public utility services. Adverse
political environment or interference generated by political or private interests weaken the
institutions. At the same time, inappropriate pricing policies that do not provide the
incentives and the means for the utility provider to earn a reasonable and justifiable return
on the productive assets in use, and that do not allow for maintenance of the tariff levels
in real terms, will inevitably lead to decapitalization, loss of productive assets, inadequate
maintenance, increase in vulnerability of the system to frequent and sudden breakdowns
and eventually to a collapse of the service itself
xviii. In companies such as EAAB, the general Manager of the company should always
be able to count on the support and cooperation of the Mayor of the city, the Municipal
Council, and the National Government.  This was not frequently the case during this
project.
xix.   For approval of future loans to companies such as EAAB, adequate independence
and autonomy in managing, hiring of personnel, contracting and planning, should be a pre-
requisite.
xx.   At the same time, a clear and transparent regulatory regime should be in place to
ensure that the interest of the service provider and of the consumers are balanced through
the tariff structure that has incentives for performance and penalties for lack of
performance, so that both the interests of the service provider and of the consumers are
adequately safeguarded. The mechanisms for approval of structural changes and for
adjustments of tariffs in real terms should be clearly articulated and insulated from political
interference. Unfortunately, these results cannot be attained through enhanced technical
assistance alone.
xxi.   There should be greater emphasis upon monitoring indicators and detailed project
implementation schedules and investments to ensure better management of project works.
xxii.  In complex projects with many small contracts, it might be more convenient to
either delegate a major part of the bidding review to the Bank's local representative, or to
an internationally-recognized consulting company which has experience in managing such
works. Tenders directly supervised by Bank staff should be limited to key areas of
concern.



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2512 - CO)
PART I - PROJECT REVEEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Project Name:            Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage
Project
Loan Number:             2512 - CO
RVP Unit   :             Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department In
Country     :            Colombia
Sector      .            Urban Infrastructure
Subsector   :            Water Supply and Sanitation
B.   Background
1.    The Water Supply Sector. At the time the project was initiated, the water supply
and sewerage sector in Colombia was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public
Health (MSP) which, in coordination with DNP, formulated national sector policies. Two
institutions, the National Institute for Urban Development (INSFOPAL) and the National
Institute of Health (INAS), were responsible for implementing these policies in urban and
rural areas respectively. Both of these institutions had central planning and supervisory
functions and acted as financial intermediaries for sector investments.  The Urban
Development Fund (FFDU) of the Central Mortgage Bank also provided financing for
investments in the urban sector.
2.    On the local level, different types of institutions had responsibilities for
constructing, maintaining and operating water supply and sewerage service facilities. In
28 principal cities, where about 75% of Colombia's urban population was concentrated,
Municipal Public Works Companies (EPMS) were in charge of water and sewerage
services, and in many instances, also provided other public services. In most smaller
towns, water supply and sanitation services were provided by Sanitation Works
Companies (EMPOS) over which INSFOPAL exerted considerable influence. In rural
areas, water and sanitation facilities were built, operated and maintained by departmental
offices of INAS in coordination with the beneficiary communities.



-2-
3.    The performance of most sector institutions at both the national and local levels in
Colombia, has demonstrated much need for improvement. Weak administration and
management and poor financial performance were the main reasons precluding a more
efficient functioning of many operating entities. The combined effect of low tariff levels
and poor commercial practices, with fast-rising operating costs (including personnel
costs), caused a perennial financial problem for many companies. Frequent and often
politically-motivated changes in top- and middle-management positions and shortages of
funds hindered financial and investment planning. These shortcomings, together with
general lack of a sufficiently trained work force, have manifested themselves, also, in poor
maintenance and operation of many water supply and sewerage systems and have been
reflected in generally high levels of unaccounted for water.
4.    During the period of project preparation, the Government, under its plan for
"development with equity," formulated its goal of providing adequate water and sanitation
services to all its citizens. For 1990, it projected service level goals of 90% for water
supply and 80% for sewerage for urban areas, and service levels of 40% for water supply
and 35% for sewerage for rural areas. This meant reaching an additional 5.5 million
people in urban areas and about 2.0 million in rural areas. The total cost was estimated at
about US$ 1,700 million (1983 prices) and called for annual investments of about US$
300 million, not including operation and maintenance costs and investments needed to
rehabilitate and repair existing facilities.  To achieve the 1990 goals, historic annual
average sector investment levels would have had to be tripled, a task considered difficult
during project preparation, due to the weaknesses of the sector institutions and prevailing
budgetary constraints.
5.    Since 1968, the Bank has made 10 loans totaling US$ 251.9 million, for water
supply and sewerage development in Colombia. Bank funds accounted for about 70% of
the external loan funds made available to the sector. Seven loans, US$ 184.8 million in
total, were made to EPMs in Bogota, Cali, Palmira and Cucuta. By far, the largest
borrower has been the Bogota Water and Sewerage Company (EAAB) to which the Bank
lent US$ 132 million in three lending operations to finance investments of about US$ 450
million.
6.    Of the Bank-financed projects, the projects in Bogota fared better than others in
the sector. While EAAB developed into a relatively efficient institution, the performances
of the other companies receiving Bank financing (Cali, Palmira and sub borrowers under
INSFOPAL loans) have not shown similar results. Although most of the projects were
physically completed after lengthy delays, institutional development goals were only
partially achieved and the financial performance of the entities in most cases did not
improve to the degree originally envisaged.
7.    EAAB Performance Under Past Loans. The first Bank loan to EAAB, Loan
536-CO, was made in 1968 to finance expansion of the Tibito water supply and
transmission system. This project was successfully completed in 1976. The second
operation, Loan 741-CO, made in 1971, financed construction of the Chingaza diversion



-3-
(a dam, 38 km. of tunnel and 6 km of pipe), the Wiesner water treatment plant, the Santa
Ana treated water storage reservoir, a 20 km. treated water transmission main and 100
km. of primary distribution mains.
8.    EAAB faced various complex administrative and technical problems during the
implementation of Loan 741-CO. Major revisions were made in project scope to include
new diversion works to Chingaza reservoir (Guatiquia tunnel) aimed at increasing water
yield by 4.5 m3/sec, and deletion of a 25 km. major water transmission line (Usaquen-
Parque Nacional-Casablanca) and about 50 km. of primary distribution lines. There were
also significant increases in the length of secondary water network, sewage collectors and
drainage to accelerate coverage of these services, and reduction in the length of primary
distribution main, acquisition and installation of telemetry and communications equipment,
needed for the Chingaza system. The contractor, originally responsible for Chingaza
tunnel construction (1972), was unable to deliver and the tunnel works were thus re-
tendered and awarded to another contractor (1974).  This contractor, however
encountered high concentrations of methane gas during the excavation of the tunnel which
led to explosions on two occasions (1978 and 1981). The gas created unsafe construction
conditions which resulted in long-term suspensions of the work while a solution to the
problem was being worked out. The construction of the tunnel -- and the overall project -
- was not completed until June 1983, some six years behind appraisal estimates; the
resulting delays increased the cost of the Chingaza diversion from US$ 85 million at
appraisal to a final cost of US$ 300 million.
9.    The third Bank loan to EAAB, Loan 1697-CO, made in 1979, financed primary
water distribution mains, secondary water, sewerage an drainage networks, drainage
canals and sewerage interceptors. In 1981, water shortages began occurring in the south-
western area of Bogota, four years earlier than projected in a 1975 study.  These
unexpected shortages confirmed the need for a major transmission main similar to the one
eliminated from the second project. EAAB and the Bank agreed that a new master plan
was needed before the transmission main could be constructed. Accordingly, the third
project was modified to make funds available for preparation of such a master plan. It was
also decided to delete from the project construction of 25 Km. of primary distribution
mains and concentrate instead on the construction of secondary water and sewerage
networks.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
10.   Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to provide the water
supply and sewerage infrastructure essential for the uninterrupted growth of Bogoti. The
project proposed to accomplish this objective through:
(a)   Removing constraints to EAAB's water distribution system which caused
water shortages in the south western (mostly low-income) areas of Bogota



-4-
(b)   Increasing the reliability of water supply to Bogota through the
construction of a raw water storage reservoir; (San Rafael); and
(c)   Improving EAAB's productivity and increasing its operational efficiency
through implementation of an Action Plan and technical assistance.
11.   Project Description. The project included high priority works in EAAB's 1985-
92 investment program, technical assistance for the institutional improvement of EAAB,
and technical assistance to advance the preparation of a possible Bogota River Flood
Control and Water Pollution Mitigation operation.
The project comprised the six components described below:
(a)   Water Transmission and Distribution Improvements (Part A). Low
water supply pressures were experienced by about 200,000 residents living
in the south-western area of Bogota. In addition, the available capacity of
the Chingaza project partially financed under (Loan 741-CO) could not be
fully utilized because of restricted transmission capacity from the Santa
Ana distribution reservoir at Usaquen, storing treated Chingaza water.
Low water pressure was also experienced by people living in the fringes of
the city and there were demands for EAAB to extend services beyond these
areas to accommodate new urban developments. This part of the project
was aimed at solving these problems through construction of transmission
and distribution mains adequate to meet 1995 projected demand. The
works include the following:
I.    Construction of about 9 km. of rock tunnel.
2.    Construction of about 43 km. of transmission and primary water
distribution mains.
3.    Construction of 6 booster pumping stations.
4.    Construction of 5 storage tanks.
(b)   Distribution System Rehabilitation (Part B). In 1983, EAAB
experienced 9,300 breaks in its water mains. Most of these breaks
occurred in asbestos cement (AC) pipes, and the acidity of the soils
in the Bogota area (up to PH 5.5) was the suspected cause of this
deterioration. Similar deterioration was noted with cast iron valves
and small diameter galvanized iron pipes in the system.
Under this component of the project, the Bank financed the cost of
materials and part of the replacement and repair work performed by private
contractors in 280 km of water distribution mains and repair of water main breaks
and leaks. During the three years before the project, EAAB experienced five
breaks in the 78-inch Tibito - Casablanca main transmission line constructed
under Loan 536-CO. This pipeline was constructed with pre-stressed concrete



-5-
pipe. The failures resulted from corrosion of the pre-stressing wires used in the
manufacture of this type of pipe. The proposed rehabilitation for this transmission
pipe was based on the results of the survey carried out by a panel of experts,
financed by the Bank.
(c)   Secondary Water Networks and Service Connections in Low
Income Neighborhoods (Part C). There were a number of areas
within the Capital District of Bogota which developed without
access to water, sewerage and drainage systems. EAAB had a
program whereby communities could apply to it for financing and
installation of the required systems. This component included 140
Km. of water mains, 280 Km. of sewage collectors and 420 Km. of
storm water drains. Also included was the cost of making about
100,000 water and sewerage connections under the same program,
and replacement of about 260,000 water meters, in addition to
having 40,000 new meters installed on new water connections in
low-income areas.
(d)   Raw Water Storage (Part D). This component of the project
included the construction of the San Rafael reservoir to provide raw
water storage for the new Wiesner water treatment plant when the
Chingaza tunnel is out of service for inspection and maintenance.
The reservoir would provide 50 million m3 of water storage in a
natural depression located near the Wiesner plant. A pumping
station was to be constructed to pump the water from the reservoir
to the plant, and was to be financed with export credits (from the
OECF, Japan).
(e)   Implementation Study and Design for Mitigation of Pollution
of the Bogota River and Flood Control (Part E). The discharge
of untreated domestic and industrial wastes into the tributaries of
the Bogota River has been a chronic source of serious pollution
problems both for those living close to the river and others
downstream from the city. This pollution has been a threat to the
health of persons living in communities which use the river for
drinking water and irrigation, and it also affects the use of the
Magdalena River for water supply, fishing and recreation. The
Bogota River joins the Magdalena 120 km. southwest of the city.
The Bogota River also periodically overflows its banks causing
damage to existing urban areas and preventing further development
in the flood plain of the river.
As a result of two studies financed through Loans 741-CO and
1697-CO, technical solutions had been identified. However, the
economic justification and investment priority were not clear.



-6-
Study of the institutional, developmental, financial and cost
recovery aspects of implementing the technical solutions was to be
financed with this part of the loan.
(f)   Institutional Strengthening of EAAB (Part F) The Action Plan
agreed to under the project was crucial, given the limited results of
previous efforts to modernize EAAB, improve efficiency and create
a stable operating framework. Technical assistance under this part
of the project was aimed at carrying out the Action Plan in four
areas:
Management information and control systems;
Reduction of unaccounted-for water;
Commercial procedures; and
*     Training of personnel.
D.   Project Design and Organization
12.   Conceptual Foundation. Responsibility for the design of the project was shared
by the National Government, the Capital District authorities and the Bank, and was based
on the Bank's previous experience with the EAAB system, acquired during the execution
of three previous loans. The project was aimed at satisfying water demand needs of the
city of Bogota, up to the year 2005, and also to increase the sewerage service coverage to
91%. The project was consistent with the Bank's strategy of lending on a selective basis
to the larger municipal companies with a commitment to improve their standards of
performance, assisting in this way the government's efforts to extend improved water
supply and sewerage services to large segments of the population (including the urban
poor).
13.   The project was also in line with Bank's general approach of lending for
infrastructure in Colombia, emphasizing quick yielding investments and a more intensive
use of existing facilities before addition of new capacity. It had a high social impact focus
with 54% of the beneficiaries consisting of the urban poor of Bogota, who would be
provided with dependable water supply at affordable rates. Direct beneficiaries of the
project were an estimated 2.9 million residents of Bogota, distributed as follows: 1.0
million who would receive water services, about 1.1 million existing consumers whose
services would be upgraded in quantity and quality through elimination of supply
interruptions, and 0.8 million who would receive sewerage and drainage services.
14.   The package was designed with the expectation that the financial situation of
EAAB would be as estimated in the appraisal report, the required co-financing for San
Rafael dam and pumping stations would be available on time, and the bidding and
procurement processes would be done without significant delays.



-7-
15.   Project Preparation. In 1981, areas in the south-western area of Bogota began
experiencing water shortages due to restrictions in the distribution system. In response to
these shortages, EAAB requested the Bank to reallocate funds from Loan 1697-CO to
finance a distribution master plan study, aimed at identifying the least-cost solution for
distributing water to meet existing and future requirements. The first stage of the plan
became the basis for the project. Technical assistance for addressing the development and
implementation issues associated with the proposed Bogota River pollution and flood
control programs as well as technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of
EAAB were added to the project as a result of analysis and discussions with EAAB during
project preparation. A Bank appraisal mission visited EAAB in June and July of 1984 and
the loan was approved by the Board on April 2, 1985.
16.   Roles and Responsibilities. The role and responsibilities of EAAB were clearly
defined in the project but they proved to be beyond the capacity of EAAB to carry out,
primarily because of the lack of an enabling institutional framework, law Municipal
Council support and lack of managerial autonomy.
E.   Project Implementation
17.   The Loan Agreement was signed on April 3, 1985 and became effective on July 1,
1985. There were no special conditions of effectiveness in the Loan Agreement. The loan
closing date was set for June 30, 1993.
18.   The project began relatively satisfactorily. Final designs for most of the principal
construction components (tunnel, primary distribution mains, pumping stations, storage
tanks) were ready from  the beginning.  However, early problems in bidding and
contracting resulted in delays in project execution and disbursements. Tendering of the
San Rafael dam caused great controversy and legal actions against EAAB.
19.   Due to a dramatic devaluation of the Colombian peso by 94% in two years (1985-
1986), an event not foreseen in the SAR, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
in February, 1987 in order to increase the percentage financed by the Loan as follow:
*  Civil works Part A.1; 100%  of foreign expenditures and 40%  of Local
expenditures (instead 65% of foreign expenditures).
. Civil works for part A (other than part A. 1), B, C, and D 40% of local
expenditures (instead 32%).
20.   Besides the devaluation of the local currency, the inability of EAAB to improve
operating efficiency as evidenced by a high level of unaccounted-for water ( 40%), high
increase of personnel costs (average 8% yearly in real terms between 1984 and 1991), and
increase of accounts receivable led to a worsening of its financial situation. Frequent
changes in management and principal staff (5 Managers from 1988 to 1993), affected
continuity in policies and programs. Problems in the contracting processes and delays in



-8-
the negotiation of the loan for the San Rafael reservoir and pumping station (with the
OECF of Japan), caused delays in the initiation of this component of the project. At the
closing date, 38% of this component had been executed, and its completion is now
expected only by mid 1996.  In spite of improvements in accounting, tightening of
financial and management controls and efforts to negotiate more reasonable terms with the
labor union, and with closer Bank supervision from 1991 to 1993 and a threat of
suspension of disbursement, the Bank came to the conclusion that after 8 years of
execution this loan would "not represent the optimal instrument to support more
fundamental institutional and structural changes in the context of the current strategic
consensus in Colombia to focus on assuring the sustainability of basic water and sewerage
services in Bogota over the next 10-15 years." The closing date was thus not extended to
complete the San Rafael reservoir.
21.   However, since EAAB had taken various measures and actions which were
underway to correct its structural problems (financial, institutional autonomy, labor
convention), the Bank allowed disbursements up to December 31, 1993 and agreed to the
financing of the other works required for the completion of the San Rafael dam through a
sub-loan from FINDETER under the on-going Water Supply Sector loan. At the same
time, the Bank began to prepare on an accelerated basis, a new project, SANTAFE I, with
upfront decisions and actions to address these more fundamental issues.
F.    Execution of the Components
22.   Part A-Water transmission and distribution improvements. This component
was carried out without major problems and on time.  This was true of the main
component the Santa Ana - Parque Nacional tunnel (9km.) construction, as well as the 77
Km. of primary water transrnission mains (79% more than appraised), 8 booster pumping
stations (2 more than appraised) and 9 storage tanks (4 more than appraised, 45,000 m3.
additional capacity).
23.   Due to a severe rainy season in 1988-1989, emergency works were executed with
local funds to assure water supply to the south-western area of Bogota. Works executed
included the raising of the height and the width of Chisaca dam (adding 2,200,000 m3 of
storage capacity), rehabilitation of La Laguna water treatment plant, and the construction
of two additional water tanks.
24.   Part B-Distribution system rehabilitation. The replacement and repair of water
distribution mains and the repair of water main breaks (240 km.), included in this
component were executed successfully. However, the repair of the 78 inch Tibito pipeline
was not done. ARer having diverse opinions from EAAB consultants, there was not a
consensus on the technical solution needed to rehabilitate this pipeline and it was decided
instead to postpone the works and construct a 60 inch pipeline to Suba. EAAB argued
that this pipe would operate independently of the other mains included in the transmission
plan and would serve zones with deficiencies of water supply.



-9-
25.   Part C-Secondary water, sewerage and drainage network and service
connections.  600 km. of secondary water, sewerage and drainage network were
constructed (as compared to 840 km. envisaged at appraisal), 110,000 service connections
were made (versus 100,000 estimated at appraised) and 450,000 water meters were
installed (versus 260,000 estimated at appraised).
26.   Part D-San Rafael - Reservoir. Although the San Rafael Dam was only 38%
complete at the closing date of the loan, financing of the remaining works was assured
through a FINDETER sub-loan. The contract for the pumping station and equipment
financed by OECF of Japan had not been awarded by the closing date but these are now
signed and the works are expected to be operational shortly. The San Rafael Dam has
been completed and complementary works, including the pumping station, are expected to
be finished in April, 1996.
27.   Part E- Bogota River Pollution and Flood Control Planning Project. During
the preparation and analysis of the terms of reference for the studies included in this
component, the study of the Rio Bogota decontamination and hydraulic improvement,
(financed with Loan-1697-CO) were completed, and based on these results, the Bank and
EAAB agreed to postpone the design of the sewerage treatment plant. New terms of
reference were discussed and consultants were hired for Rio Bogota Sewerage Master
Plan study. However, as the Mayor of the city (in March 1990) invited three international
consortiums to participate in the construction and operation of three sewerage treatment
plants (by concession), the Bank hired an international consultant to review the
alternatives available to solve the Rio Bogota problem.  The consultant prepared
preliminary designs appropriate for the Rio Bogota interceptor and proceeded with
engineering designs for the first stage of the interceptor Torca -Salitre- Fucha. During the
preparation of the Santafe Project, the Bank and EAAB discussed the possibility of
carrying out the economic, institutional and land development study related to the control
of flooding and pollution in the Rio Bogota as part of this project. A training program
was executed with the WHO/PAHO, and scholarship courses and seminars were utilized
to help improve staff performance.
28.   Part F-Institutional Strengthening. The studies and technical assistance
(financial information systems, commercial system, and unaccounted-for water, (UFW)
were carried out, but their implementation was not successful. For example, the UFW
after some reduction to 39% in 1985 grew to about 40% in 1991, the (SAR target was
26% in 1990), and problems in implementation of a financial information system resulted
in negative opinion of the auditors. Purchasing of equipment for maintenance, data
processing, communication, instrumentation and leak detection were done but full use of
these suffered from staff deficiencies.
G.   Project Risks
29.   The appraisal report identified as one of the principal risks of the project, the
possibility that internal cash flow would fall short of needs to meet the cost of the project



-10-
if efforts to contain operating costs were not successful. The risk of potential delays in
project implementation and in finalizing co-financing was also flagged. At the same time,
as the availability of export credits could not be confirmed in advance, this was identified
as a risk for project implementation. During the implementation of the project it was
evident that these risks were correctly identified. As a consequence of high operating cost,
cash flow problems occurred, with a cash deficit of about US$ 35 million at the end of
1992. The cost of personnel/m3 of water sold grew from Col$69.2 in 1984 to Col$ 138.7
in 1992 (both in 1991 prices). Personnel cost increased from 62% of total operating cost
in 1984 to 79% in 1991. The rate of return on net fixed assets was 3.19% in 1987, 2.05%
in 1990, and 1.85 in 1991, compared with an average of 13% estimated in the appraisal
report, or those covenanted in the Loan Agreement (see para. 42). With respect to delays
in project implementation, the delay in the execution of San Rafael dam and the
complementary works also occurred. This was due to the extended negotiation of the
loan with the Government of Japan and various claims during the bidding process.
30.   Inflation and exchange rate changes in Colombia during the project execution
period of the project were not in line with estimates made in 1984. Inflation was assumed
at 20% for 1985 and 1986 and 18% for the following years; the exchange rate was
assumed Col$114 in 1984 and Col$288 in 1992).
31.   The comparison between the assumptions and the actual data is as follows:
YEAR          LOCAL INFLATION              EXCHANGE RATE
__ _  (SAR)       REAL           (SAR)         REAL
1985         20.00          24.00         140.00        142.30
1986         20.00          18.90         158.00        194.30
1987          18.00         23.30         174.00        242.60
1988          18.00         28.10         189.00        299.20
1989          18.00         25.80        207.00         382.60
1990          18.00         29.10        231.00         502.30
1991          18.00         30.40         257.00        633.00
1992          18.00         27.00         288.00        759.30
These two factors contributed adversely to the financial situation of EAAB, and
consequently to project execution, through increasing the burden of debt service, and
costs of components in local currency.
32.    Political interference was not considered a major risk at the time of project
preparation. EAAB's administrative structure, quality and stability of management and
administrative staff were also considered satisfactory at the time of appraisal. However,



-1 1-
during the execution of the project, political interference occurred in management, staffing
and contracting decisions and actions. For example, high non-wage benefits were agreed
to with the unions. In 1987-1988 there was a massive increase of staff, (between 500-
600), with sporadic ad-hoc transfers to the Capital District and politically-influenced
agreements with neighboring municipalities to supply water. At the same time, EAAB
managers lost autonomy and independence from the Mayor and the District Council.
33.   The contribution of EAAB in financing of the San Rafael dam, did not occur
because of its precarious financial condition.
H.   Disbursements
34.   The disbursement of the loan began slowly during the first years due to delays in
preparation of bid documents and getting contracts signed. There was a maximum lag of
71% between planned and actual figures during the 1987 to 1990 period. Total
disbursement reached 81% of the loan, (US$104,376,620.96) with the remaining amount
canceled. Categories 1, 2, and 4 were disbursed below estimates (83%, 96%, 63%)
respectively, while in category 3, the disbursement was larger than planned (119%).
I.    Covenant Compliance
35.   Despite compliance with some of the covenants, the crucial financial and
institutional efficiency areas reflect the greatest non-compliance, as indicated below:
*     The institutional strengthening of EAAB according to the Action Plan
agreed with the Bank (section 3.01 (e) of Loan Agreement) was not
achieved. The inability of EAAB to improve operational efficiency by
reducing unaccounted for water, controlling personnel costs and improving
accounts receivable were the main areas of non-compliance.
Separate accounts for SOE were not maintained satisfactorily.
The minimum rate of return of 4.5% agreed to at negotiations for 1988 and
thereafter was not reached. Rates of return of 3.19, 2.05 and 1.85 were
reported by auditors in 1987, 1990 and 1991, respectively, against
commitments of 4, 4.5 and 4.5% respectively. Moreover, the rate of return
figures did not always reflect the true situation because some completed
works were not incorporated correctly into fixed assets (they were
maintained as works in progress). Also, during most of the time, fixed
asset were not reevaluated and pension liabilities were not correctly
estimated, which inflated the revenues.
The inability to improve operational efficiency, large increase (yearly
average of 8.2% in real terms) of personnel costs due to increasing pension
obligations and overtime, the high ratio between accounts receivable and



-12-
monthly sales, arrears on accounts payable to contractors and suppliers,
etc., show that EAAB did not carry out its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative financial and public utility
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff, as was agreed in Section 4.01 of the Loan
Agreement (although subsequent to the full impact of the crisis, some
corrective actions were initiated).
Although average tariffs grew from 1984 to 1992 by 4.8 % annually in real
terms, it was not enough to meet the rate of return covenanted, due to
higher growth of operational costs (8.2%) and high UFW (42% ). In
addition, the structure of tariffs was not appropriate and did not reflect the
changing pattern of demand and the incentives that were needed to ensure
economic use of the production and distribution capacities.
J.    Project Results
36.   Achievement of Objectives. The project achieved most of the principal physical
objectives of providing water supply and sewerage services essential for the uninterrupted
growth of Bogota. However, it did not reduce the vulnerability of the San Rafael Dam
and Tibito transmission pipeline and it failed to improve EAAB's productivity and
operational efficiency. It provided the infrastructure required to eliminate the existing
constraints for the efficient use of the current production capacity which had caused water
shortages in the south-western area of Bogota with a substantial concentration of poor
people.
37.   The improvements of the water transmission  and distribution mains, the
rehabilitation of the water distribution system, construction of secondary water
distribution mains, sewage collectors and storm drains, and the emergency works done in
1989-1990 allowed the extension of the services (water, sewage and drainage) to 1.8
million people. Within this part of the project, repair of the 78 inch transmission main of
the Tibito-Bogota, to more efficiently use the production capacity of the Tibito plant was
not done. Instead of the Tibito pipeline repair, a 60 inch pipeline to Suba was installed.
38.   With respect to the increase in reliability of water supply to Bogota, although the
San Rafael reservoir was not fully completed during the project, it was designed, and
financed and its execution was so advanced that its completion was foreseeable (the dam
was finished in April 1994, and the other works financed by the OECF of Japan are
expected to be completed in April, 1996). The objective of increasing reliability of water
supply to Bogota was partially achieved with some delays. The non-completion of the
Tibito transmission pipeline rehabilitation affects the reliability of future water supply
through this area but the proposed Santafe Project will include these works.
39.   The technical assistance consultants (for UFW  reduction, commercial operation
system, managerial information system, financial planning), carried out their tasks but their



-13-
recommendations were not implemented, or only very partially because of financial,
administrative and political constraints. The final engineering designs for the sewerage
master plan were carried out with some delay and the works are included in the Santafe
project in preparation. The economic, financial, institutional and land development study
related to flood control and pollution in the Bogota river was not done. During the
planning and discussions of Santafe Loan, these studies were included to be carried out as
part of the new Loan.
K.   Project Benefits
40.   Direct beneficiaries in the city of Bogota were estimated at 2.9 million of which,
1.0 million would receive water service, 1.1 million existing consumers would be upgraded
in quantity and quality through elimination of supply interruptions, and 0.8 million would
receive sewerage and drainage services. It was estimated that 54% of these beneficiaries
would be urban poor, while the beneficiaries of the sewerage and drainage works would
be 100% urban poor. In 1983, the population served with water in Bogotai was estimated
during appraisal at 4,179,000 (95% of total population), while in 1993 it was estimated at
5,300,000. The increase of access to water supply thus benefited 1.1 million people.
3,870,000 inhabitants had sewerage services in 1983, equivalent to 85% of total
population. The estimation of sewerage service coverage in 1993 was 88% (4,590,000
inhabitants. The increase of beneficiaries with access to sewerage service was 720,000.
41.   Although not all of the new users (connections) of water and sewerage services are
direct beneficiaries of the project (because the new legal urban developers also directly
provided similar service, and in parallel there were other programs such as IDB-Ciudad
Bolivar, FFDU-F1NDETER, the project contributed a great part of this improvement.
The improvement of water transmission mains and the rehabilitation of distribution system
improved overall access to water and sewerage service. Although the benefits of the
institutional strengthening and technical assistance were not achieved during the project
implementation period, the analytic basis was established for more thorough reform of
these areas at a later date.
L.    Rate of Return
42.   The financial rate of return obtained during the project execution was always lower
than Loan Agreement commitments (3.5% for 1985 and 1986, 4% for 1987 and 4.5% for
1988 and thereafter based on net fixed assets). The 1987, 1990, 1991 figures reported by
EAAB auditors were 3.19%, 2.05, 1.85 respectively. In 1992 it was estimated as 2.1%.
However, if rate of return calculations were done considering properly-reevaluated fixed
assets and pension liabilities, the rate of return would probably be negative. This would
reflect the inadequate tariff structure and level and the failure to adjust tariffs in line with
changing demand patterns and with incentives for economic use of the production and
distribution capacities in the system.



-14-
43.   Low internal cash generation, resulting from the inadequacies of tariffs, high
unaccounted for water ( higher than 40%), increase of personnel cost/m3 sold (200%
between 1984 and 1992), and the low recovery in accounts receivable, are the main
factors which affected the rate of return.
M.   Project Sustainability
44.   The benefits obtained through the rehabilitation and improvement of the water
transmission mains and secondary network are sustainable in the future, with adequate
maintenance in a sound institutional framework.
45.   The sustainability of the benefits expected from institutional strengthening will
depend to a great extent on the future institutional structures approved by the Municipal
Council of Bogota, especially if it allows EAAB to be managed with autonomy,
independence and without political interference in personnel, budgeting, contracting and
planning. The continuity, qualification and experience of the management and staff also
will be essential. At the same time, the sustainability of the benefits expected would be
negatively affected if institutional issues such as pension liabilities, unaccounted for water,
maintenance programs, operational efficiency, receivables, management, cost accounting,
and tariff structure are not solved satisfactorily.
N.    Bank Performance and Lesson Learned
46.   Preparation and Appraisal. During the project identification, preparation and
appraisal, the Bank, incorporated its experience and knowledge of EAAB, based on
lessons of previous loans and its estimates of water demand and consumption levels and
detailed survey of complex works, detailed engineering designs prior to bidding stage and
realistic implementation schedules. The project risks were correctly identified except in
the case of the institutional framework where the impact of political factors was not fully
considered.
47.   Supervision. Project supervision  utilized  137.3  staff weeks during  the
implementation period. Between 1985 and 1993, fourteen supervision missions visited
Colombia. However, more intensive and continuous supervision were needed in the
critical period (1989-1991) when problems became more serious.
48.   Although the project rating was satisfactory in the first six years (1985-1990) with
an overall rating of 1, there were later problems and delays in bidding and procurement
processes and increases in local costs due to high devaluation of the local currency. The
institutional and financial structure of EAAB was also becorning weaker from as early as
1988. Due to non-compliance with covenants, shortfall of funds, delays in procurement
and bidding processes (mainly in the San Rafael Dam), delays in execution of technical
assistance and studies and difficulties in improving operational efficiency, the project was
rated 2 late in 1990, and 3 in August, 1992, reflecting deteriorating conditions.



-15-
49.   Further problems arose from non-compliance with actions agreed between Bank
and EAAB, aggravation of the financial situation, inability to improve operational
efficiency and control of personnel costs, ad-hoc transference to the Capital District and
risky supply contracts with neighboring municipalities, leading the Bank to threaten to
suspend of disbursements in March  1992.   Despite the significant efforts and
improvements initiated by the managers of EAAB in 1992 and 1993 to solve the main
problems and introduce institutional reforms, the Bank decided not to extend the current
closing date as these efforts in themselves were insufficient for the fundamental
institutional and structural changes required by EAAB, which needed more time to
develop.
50.   Acquisition and bidding supervision occupied much supervision time and the
complicated processes contributed to delays in contracting works. In complex projects
with many small contracts, it might be convenient to either delegate major parts of the
supervision and control to the Bank's local office, or to well-known private companies
which specialize in such tasks. Tenders directly supervised by Bank's staff should be
limited to the most difficult areas (in terms of the amount of the purchase or bid or its
special features). This should contribute to better supervision on the key parts of the
project. This should be done for the next project with EAAB, SANTAFE I.
51.   Lessons. An enabling institutional environment and the commitment of the leaders
of a community, independent of personal and political interests, is a critical factor for the
success of projects with public entities. Adverse political environment or interferences
generated by political or private interests weaken the institutions. In addition,
appropriately structured tariff and regulatory regime are critical to ensure that the service
providers in the utilities'sectors are adequately compensated for the use of productive
assets and that there are incentives and safeguards to protect the interests of consumers on
the one hand, and permit justifiably return for efficient perfromance of the suppliers on
the other.  For approval of future loans to companies such as EAAB, adequate
independence and autonomy in managing, hiring of personnel, contracting and planning
should be a compulsory requirement. Unfortunately, this cannot be attained through
technical assistance.  A final report with monitoring indicators and detailed project
implementation and investments should be agreed with the borrower, and these should be
more strictly adhered to.
0.   Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
52.   The performance of the borrower was satisfactory for only a part of the execution
period and for some components. However, as summarized below, several weaknesses
affected the project.
Although tariffs grew in the last 10 years an average of 4.2 % annually in
real terms, there was deterioration of the financial performance (cost
increases higher than income increases) due to operational inefficiencies
and to the structural deficiencies of the tariff regime. High personnel non-



-16-
wage benefits (8.2% yearly in real terms), high unaccounted-for water, and
poor commercial management eroded the impact on revenues.  The
insufficient internal cash generation affected project implementation and led
to arrears in payments to contractors, suppliers and creditors.
*     Lax management and outside interference were mainly responsible for high
personnel cost increases.
*     Deficiencies in the accounting system caused an adverse auditors' opinion
in 1991. Only in 1992 after the Bank insisted in remedial actions by EAAB
did it begin to improve its accounting system .
*     The technical assistance could have been successful if EAAB had been
committed to its implementation and the municipal authorities did not
unduly interfere in the process.
a     Although the General Manager is legally the head of EAAB, the company
has always depended upon the support and cooperation of the Mayor of
Bogota, the Municipal Council and the national Government. This
condition was not always present during this project.
P.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
53.   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was generally cordial most of
the time. The close dialogue between the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor
contributed to introduction of corrective actions.
Q.   Performance of Consultants and Contractors
54.   The performance of local consultants hired to design and supervise the
construction of the Wiesner-Parque Nacional tunnel and San Rafael Dam was satisfactory.
55.   The performance of the consultants hired to provide assistance regarding
unaccounted-for water and management information systems was adequate. There were
delays in the execution of the assistance program.  Problems and difficulties in the
implementation of the financial information system contributed to the adverse auditors'
opinion in 1991.
56.   The performance of local consultants hired to carry out the detailed engineering
designs of water transmission and distribution mains and secondary networks
improvement and rehabilitation, as well as the sewerage Master Plan and flood control
was adequate.



-17-
R.   Project Documentation Data
57.   The information available in the Bank files, including those relating to project
preparation, the audit reports, the supervision reports and the Aide-Memoire of missions
were all useful. The information from the implementation period was detailed for a part of
the period. Supervision missions which prepared "limited" supervision reports did not
provide much of the detailed information needed to fully understand the issues and address
the problems.



-18-
PART HI- PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
i.    This document reflects the EAAB perspective on the design and implementation of
the Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Project under Loan 251 2-CO, prepared
according to the 1991 PCR guidelines.
ii.         Project Preparation. The Project Bogota IV was prepared in 1984.
Later on, during the implementation phase, the Bank and the EAAB agreed to change the
scope of some of the components including the planning for the Bogota River Pollution
and Flood Control program, and the repair of the 78 inch Tibito transmission mainch
iii.   Rules, Guidelines and Standards. Although consistent procedures were
applied, future projects will require that EAAB and the Bank develop a more aggressive
educational strategy toward the understanding of guidelines and standards related to
different areas of the project. An operation manual should be implemented at a very early
stage of the project in order to allow decision making based on written instructions rather
than relaying on personal knowledge.
iv.   Administrative Issues. Project coordination within the EAAB was rather
disperse, and for future occasions it is recommended to engage a coordination unit in
charge of the integral implementation of the project.
v.    On the other hand, despite the fact that there were more than desired rotation of
general managers of the EAAB during the development of the project, a relatively
constant group of EAAB staff were in contact with World Bank officials.
vi.   From the EAAB point of view, the existence of certain discontinuity of the Bank's
personnel involved with the project, in particular some of the specialists, lead to some
confusion on the perception of the Bank's opinion about different aspects, such as
EAAB's financial performance or the implementation of information systems.
vii.   The support of the World Bank resident office in Bogota improved during the last
years of the project.
viii.  Technical Issues. In general terms, the technical balance sheet of the project is
quite positive. With strong external support of the EAAB through high qualified local and
foreign consulting services and construction firms, the objectives of the Project were
accomplished with high quality standards and met the mitigation requirements of urban
environmental impact.



-19-
ix.   Financial Aspects. The existence of a Special Account proved to be a useful
tool for project implementation, especially during the early stages through the availability
of expedited resources.
x.    In the future, the existence of an operation manual for the financial management of
the project will provide a more efficient performance in this field, given that all operations
to be carried out between the Bank and the Borrower will be considered.
xi.   Reallocation of resources from one component to another was not possible despite
the various attempts of the EAAB to obtain Bank approval. For the next occasion it is
recommended to arrive at a more flexible approach allowing redistribution of resources.
xii.  In some cases an agreement between the Bank's and the Government's
macroeconomic parameters was not achieved.
Institutional Aspects
xiii.  A greater emphasis should be focused on institutional issues.
xiv.  Monitoring indicators should be judged taking into account structural changes in
the enabling environment.
xv.   The unaccounted for water program was not adequately implemented.
Cofinanciers Performance
xvi.  It took almost seven years from preparation to the signature of the loan agreement
with Japan. The components involved in this credit were expected to be carried out after
the termination of Loan -2512 CO.
xvii.  Although export credits allow prompt contracting, the Borrower must weigh
against such a convenience, the higher interest rates involved and the shorter repayment
periods that are required.



-20-
DETAILED COMMENTS
A.    Project Preparation
1.    The bulk of the project preparation activities took place in 1984, as the master plan
studies (financed under the Third Bogota Project) which were to set the course for the new
project were nearing completion. Studies also had been undertaken on the problems associated
with the Tibito 2-metre pipeline with a view to corrective action. During the course of project
execution, by mutual agreement between the Bank and EAAB, it was decided to shift the
focus of a number of the project components as originally envisaged. This was the case for the
Bogota River hydraulic works and treatment plant, which were revamped when the final terms
of reference were drawn up in December 1987. When a project spans nearly 10 years, it is not
at all unlikely that its structure may need to be adjusted, and that some of the changes will be
substantive, as the foregoing shows.
B.    Ground Rules
2.    The rules that govemed the Bogota program are those of the World Bank, which are
supranational in nature. While these requirements match, in most instances, Colombian laws
and requirements, certain of their features are unfamiliar territory in Colombian legal quarters,
particularly where contracting with consultants, contractors, suppliers, and pipelayers is
concerned. In the future, EAAB will need to carry out a thorough training program on all of
these elements and be certain that they are known and understood, both in-house and for the
benefit of the (national and local) supervisory agencies. EAAB considers the World Bank's
requirements on tendering and contracting for items to be funded with its loans to be
consistent, and that they help ensure that these processes are conducted transparently and
objectively. Nevertheless, EAAB would welcome some measure of flexibility in this area on
the Bank's part, to shorten what now are protracted tendering and contract-award processes,
which EAAB has always considered a vulnerable point in the execution of its investment
program.
3.    In EAAB's view it would be important for the Bank to allow a unit-price analysis to be
sought from firms bidding on works projects, since these bidders quote prices that are too low
and more often than not trigger complaints as the contracts are carried through. One
recommendation is that, in the future, there be a tailor-made operating manual for each project.
Another suggestion concerns the acquisition of land for works projects. This point was
discussed a number of times with Bank officials, who explained the organization's policies in
that regard. However, the Bank could perhaps look at the possibility of co-financing, with
IBRD ffinds, the acquisition of land for such projects, to provide clearer financing assurances
for this important item.



-21-
4.    The following paragraphs outline a number of administrative, technical, financial, and
institutional elements having to do with implementation of the project per se, and involving
both EAAB and the Bank.
C.    Project Implementation
Administrative Considerations
5.    Overall, EAAB's coordination of the project was somewhat disperse.  In future
projects it would be important to set up a coordinating unit to ensure that the administrative,
technical, financial, and institutional elements dovetail properly.
6.    While there were a number of changes at the general manager's level over the course of
the project, some measure of continuity was afforded, in terms of EAAB-Bank relations, by
staff contacts at the other levels who were familiar with the project and the progress thereon.
7.    As for the coordination and submittal of progress reports, EAAB acknowledges that
the quality of the information provided was directly related to the pooled efforts of the
specialized consultants it hired specifically to draw up those periodic reports. Since no such
assistance was available to EAAB during the final phase of project implementation, when the
company's financial situation had deteriorated sharply, it experienced logistical problems in
producing the final progress reports. In future investment projects EAAB will have to make
sure that it has the financing it needs to be able to draw on such outside expertise to produce
these reports throughout the life of the project.
8.    EAAB feels that there was a certain lack of continuity in its contact points in the Bank,
particularly in the case of some specialists, which made for different ideas as to implementation
of the project and may have created some confusion in the way it was handled; two areas in
which this may have been the case are EAAB's financial performance and the setting up of
information systems. These points are reflected in the Aides-memoire prepared by those
visiting missions.
9.    The Bank's office in Bogota took on a very active role in the latter years of the project.
Technical Considerations
10.   In EAAB's estimation, the consultants engaged to produce studies and designs, provide
advisory and supervision support, and coordinate construction schedules made a valuable
contribution. With help from local and foreign consultants, EAAB was able to employ new
technologies for the design and building of express lines and control structures, tunnel liner and
other construction techniques, and so on. For the first time, the company set in place a
program to control unaccounted-for water, devising methods, subprograms, and components
to that end.



-22-
11.   Technical specifications for the supply and installation of project items were updated,
notably on the quality-assurance front, working with international standards for their supply,
assembly or installation, and testing. Quantity-surveying and payment aspects were improved,
as were the forms for quantities of work for the system of mains (tanks, pumping stations,
piping networks).
12.   One feature of the technical specifications that was successfuily applied in all the
construction projects was the urban-impact mitigation requirement. EAAB is a pioneer in this
area in Bogota.
13.   As the works projects proceeded, EAAB produced as-built record drawings, which
were one element of the technical information needed for a reliable cadastre.
14.   To strengthen the technology-transfer component and make for continuity of the
program to develop the system of mains, EAAB brought on board as staff, consulting
professionals who had provided advisory support for the Fourth Bogota Program.
15.   While this program helped EAAB make major strides from a technical standpoint, the
company is of the view that some areas could be substantially improved, one of them being an
opportunity for the different EAAB areas to be involved in every phase of the project and not
confined to the portions for which they have direct responsibility.
16.   Technology transfer could be enhanced in future programs if there is monitoring and
periodic evaluation of studies, designs, tendering processes, supervision activities, and
construction and installation of the works.
17.   The two aforementioned suggestions would make for fuill transfer of technology and
would also leave a complete record of technical information pertaining to each stage of the
project.
Financial Aspects
18.   EAAB feels that the system of advances is effective, because it facilitates disbursements
early on in the project. Likewise, the Bank's replenishment and reimbursement arrangements
through use of the Special Account, by and large make it possible for funds to be paid out
smoothly and for proper control of monies. There are some areas, however, in which we
believe it would be important to improve the financial management of loans in future
operations.
19.   The administration of the loan by EAAB entailed the use of the reimbursement and
replenishment arrangements, rendering of accounts, and foreign remittances. To this end the
company instituted a series of procedures, which worked in the early stages of the project but
ultimately were relaxed, since there were no procedures manuals and the officials in charge
changed. This led to delays in accounting for funds to the Bank.



-23-
20.   Meanwhile, the controls that had been set in place in these areas also weakened, as
there was no clear tie-in between the system of controls for the loan and the budget as a basic
financial-control tool in companies of this nature. In the future, EAAB will develop a budget
structure model to reflect the various components of proposed investment programs, to make
for better management and control.
21.   Because the company operates on a single-fund principle,  at certain points the
advance-management equation was not satisfied, since there were insufficient paid invoices to
provide the Bank with the required reimbursement evidence. On this point, EAAB is of the
view that a separate management system for investment funds would be more effective.
22.   A further important consideration along these lines is that use of the reimbursement
exchange rate for replenishment purposes triggers a significant gap, in our view, between the
amounts actually paid out by the company and the replenishment amount received from the
Bank, leaving the company to finance a higher percentage than originally covenanted. This is
particularly the case when there is a sharp devaluation, and we believe that it warrants special
coordination efforts on the part of EAAB and the Bank.
23.   EAAB also feels that there should be more flexibility for reallocating unused funds
from one category or component to another. It was our experience with this Fourth Bogota
Program that there were certainties, in the last years of the project and given the
implementation projections, that an increase in the Bank-financed percentage for the civil
works of the San Rafael reservoir was feasible; this situation was put before the Bank on a
number of occasions, but failed to elicit a positive response. This would have made for greater
utilization of Loan 2512-CO.
24.   We further believe that arrangements for monitoring disbursement of the loan by
category should be revamped, since it was found in this program that the totals matched but the
line items were never reconciled, so the balances were different.
25.   One tool that would improve financial management of loans would be Bank guidelines
for financial monitoring and control of projects such as exist in other areas (tendering,
consulting contracts). It would also be helpful if the Bank could provide borrowers with more
in-depth advisory support on these topics.
26.   With regard to the Bank's monitoring of EAAB performance using macroeconomic
models, it would be very important to devise a uniform methodology to that end, establishing
in advance a financial model for that process, which should be acceptable to both parties.
Likewise, there needs to be better coordination between the Colombian Government, the
Bank, and EAAB to decide upon the macroeconomic parameters that are to be used.



-24-
Institutional Questions
27.   Equal stress was laid in al the project components on coordination by the Bank.
However, one critical and complex area, the institution-building component, which is by
definition often intangible, and encompasses areas in which EAAB has no in-house tradition or
technical culture (information systems, to cite one example), would require closer technical
monitoring by the Bank, and stronger advisory support so that problems can be picked up on
quickly and remedial measures planned in good time. Our suggestion would be that an official
with expertise in institution-building be assigned to future projects.
28.   EAAB also feels that the assessment of performance, measured by specified indicators,
should be a dynaniic process that allows for adjustments in such indicators in light of the
performnance being recorded and changes in variables in the surrounding environment.
29.   The unaccounted-for water program set up in the course of the project suffered from
lack of continuity, since it was not afforded the necessary management-level attributes and its
strategic role as an indicator of EAAB efficiency thus was not given due regard.
Experience With Other Co-Financing Sources
30.   Japanese Funding:  From  1984 to 1991,  in response to the World Bank's
requirement that it secure co-financing for the Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, EAAB negotiated a loan from the Japanese Government through the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF).
31.   The focus of the early stages in the negotiations was to have the project declared a
priority for presentation by the DNP to the Japanese Government (priority was being given in
1984 to the Aguablanca project in Cali).
32.   In 1986 the OECF officially confirmed the Japanese Government's intention to process
a loan for up to 13,132 million yen; however, the loan ultimately approved was for 8,375
million yen or the dollar equivalent thereof
33.   After all the government authorizations needed for the loan were secured (a process
which took from 1987 to 1991), the Loan Agreement finally was signed in December 1991.
34.   The components funded with the Japanese loan are:
a)    San Rafael reservoir - pumping station
b)    EAAB information system - control center
c)    Operating and maintenance equipment
d)    Consulting services



-25-
35.   The San Rafael reservoir components are under way at this writing, and work is to
begin shortly on the others.
36.   Suppliers' Credits: In the EAAB's estirnation, the supplier credits, to a total of
US$28.4 million, secured for the Fourth Bogota Program worked out well. While this form of
financing is very easy to arrange, it is expensive, and repayment terms are short for a venture
like this water supply and sewerage project that has taken about nine years to complete.
37.   The supplier credit raised for this program  was used to purchase the foreign
component of the piping for distribution mains and pumping stations.



- 26 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
YEAR OF
PROJECT NAME               PURPOSE             APPROVAL   STATUS                  CO MMENTARY
536-CO             Expansion of Tibito             1968      Completed      Project was successfullv
water supply and                          in 1976        completed
transmission system
741-CO             Construction of Chingaza        1971      Completed      Problems with contractor
diversion, Wiesner w%ater                in 1983         of the diversion tunnel and
tratment plant, Santa Ana                                concentration of methane
storage tank 20 Km  of                                   gas, delayed the project
transmission main and                                    and increased the cost
100 Km of primary distri-                               from and USS85 million
bution                                                   to US$300 million.
Construction of the 20 Km
transmssion main and 50
Km of primary distribution
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _      _  was  executed
1967-CO            Primary water distribution      1979      Completed      Water storage in
mamns; secundary water,                  in 1985         southwest area of Bogota
sewerage and drainage                                    showed the need for a new
network, drainage canals                                 Master Plan. EAAB and the
and sewerage interceptors                                Bank agreed to modify the
project to excecute the
new master Plan. 25 Km of
primary mains were deleted
from the project and
construction of secondary
water and sewerage net-
works was excecuted instead.



- 27 -
2 - PROJECT TIMETABLE
DATE           DATE         DATE ACTUAL
PLANNED        REVISED
Identification              N.A.                           05/31/83
Preparation Mission         1),83            -             03/18 /84
Appraisal Mission           f 84             -              06/27/84
Loan Negotiations           1 85             -              02/15/85
Board Approval               ,85             -              04/2/85
Loan Effectiveness                                          07/1/85
Project Completion          12!92     _       _30/04/96 (1)
Loan Closing              6/30/93            -             06/30/93
(1) The San Rafael dam was completed in April 1 994, and the pumping station and
complementarV works will be completed in April 1996
3 - LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY        86    87    88    89    90        91    92    93    94
Appraisal      22.5  42 6  65.2  87.9  107.9  122.4   127 128.3   129
Actual          8.1  12.5  24.4  47.3   77.8  8S.   96.9 104.3  105
Actual as %     36      3   37.4  53.    721   69.   75    81.3  80.8
of Estimates
_ __              _      _             -      _      -     _ -



- 28 -
4-PROJECT INIPLEMENTATION
CATEGORY                                     UN'IT       APPRAIUSAL         AC`TUAL,
A- WAAER TRANSSUSSION AND D[STRfBLTION L\EPROlEM[E.Y-TS
A-I SA.-TA ANA - RIATE 'kR ,. C  NAL nNNTEL                              ;m)             S                I I1
A-: 7RX\S\ISSIoN PRaLAIRt A' TER \LkD2S                                  Km)             43              68 5
A-3 PR(''FSTER PT tPDti ST TIC\N                                    PLM\P STATION        6                S
A-4 STC RAOE TANKS                                                      TAN5                              9
EMERGEN-CY 'V RKS
* Rarong i Lhe heient - -hisaca damrn ncrase n t                      .am3                            20'0 .000
* Rehabditation o( Lana -awaterLreaunent plant
B- DlSTRIBUTnONSSYSTENIREHABILITATION
B- I REPLA-E\MENT REPAJR WATER DISTRIBITl '. '.' ;' -i8 2S0                                              165
B-' REPAIR WATER NtALN BREAKS                                            I;M)                             -S
B-3 REP IR '8 NCHT!BrT,-f TR-ANSMISSION                                  Krn i           2'
C- SECOYD.RY WATER. SEERAGE- AND DRAVN %(;E
NRET\ ORK A.ND SERVICE CON NECTION
'I      N l     'STR t(TCN SECUND AR Y U DISTRIB I T ' '-L(NS            Kmi            140              160
Cz NSTRL7TIC'N SETUNDAR1 SEWAGE > ' LLE - RS                           Kitm           2'0               336
,'NSTRLtCTIN SEC.NTDxRA  ST('R.I Wx ATER : rE-S                      q Km)l          420              104
C-4 L\STALLATION SETERED WATER SERNICE ,' \'$NECTILNS                 Connecton         40000           I I0o0
ANTD LNSTALLATION SEWERAGE SERS1CE  .NATmE-nc NS                      Conneouon         60000
C-S REPLACEMET INSTALLATION WATER METERS                                 Units         260000           450000
D- RAW WATER STORAGE
D I CONSTRUCTION SAN RAFAEL DAM                                          (%)                             31.00
D-2 CONSTRUCTION PUMING STATION                                          (%)0
E- PLANNING BOGOTA RIVFR POLLUTION AND
FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
E-1 ECONOMIC. FINANCIAL. INSTITUTIONAL AND LA,ND -                                               EAAB and Bnk
DEVELOPMENT STUDY (FLOOD. AND POLLLlClN BOGOTA                                                ap"d to ,1Lim
RIVER - CONTROL)                                                     Study             I      0uigm.rm adi
E-2 FINAL DESIGNS FIRST STAGE WATER POLLT7ION                                                   for the .tmomptor
CONTROL PLANT                                                         Study            I      Torcm-Slia (Flood
aNd polUubo coYtrol)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _     _    _    _    _    _    _    _     ~~~~~~~~~~~~.ad  o     sni  di
F- LNSTITUTIONAL STRtNGTH
F-I TECHNICAL ASSISTANC1
.4ANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                                         Study            I            NOT DONE
'FNANCLAAL PLANNING                                                    Study            I              DONE
'COMM\ERCLkL OPERATION                                                 Study                           DONE
*UNACCOLNTED-FOR WATER REDUCTION                                       Study            I              DONE
'TRALINNLD  R SCOLLERSHINGS                                                                             DONE
F-2 ADQLISITION OF EQUIPMENT
*MAINTENANCE EQLIPMEINT                                                                                 DONE
'DATA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT                                                                             DONE
* OO NWlICATION EQUTIPMNENT                                                                             DONE
'1NSTRIA{ENTATION                                                                                       DONE
*LEAK DETECTION LNSTRUMENTS                                                                             DONE



- 29 -
5-PROJECT COST kND FINA.NCI.NC ING
A- PROJECT COST
(A.MIOUNTS IN USSM ILLON)
.APPRAISAL ESTINLATE                            LOCAL         FOREIGN         TOTAL
COST           COST
A- PRIMARY WATER DISTRIBUTION                                           42.9            49.6          92.5
B- DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION                                           8.1            6.9           15.00
C- SECLNDARY NETWORKS                                                    13.6           22.6           36.2
D- SAN RAFAEL RESERVOIR                                                  17.7           22.3          40.00
E- BOGOTA RIVER IMPLEMENTATION                                           1.1                          2.1
F- INSTlTlTIONAL IMPROVEMENT                                             2.5            13.2           15.7
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION                                        20.8            5.8           26.6
BASE COST                                                             106.7          121.4          228 I
PHISICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                 7.8            9.3            17.1
PRICES CONTINGENCIES                                                   22.7            48            70.7
TOTAL PROYECTS COST                                                   137.2           178.7         315.9
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                                                                  37.6           37.6
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                              137.2           216.3          353.5
ACTUAL COST (1)                              LOCAL          FOREIGN         TOTAL
_COST          COST
1- CIVILWORK(PARTAI)                                                    17.5           11.00          2S.5
2- EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
(PARTS A.B,C,F EXCEPT PART A3)                                       37.00           41.1           78.1
3- CIVIL WORKS PARTS A,B,C,D, (EXCEPT PART.A 1)                         161.4           44.3          205.7
4- CONSULTANTS SERVICES                                                  23.3            4.4           27.7
5- TRAINING AND SCHOLARSHIPS (PART F                                     0.2            0.2            0.4
*- OTHER COSTS (2)                                                       15.2                          15.2
254.6           101           355.6
(1) ESTIMATED FOR PROrECT COMPLETION I N A.PRIL 1996
(2) LA.ND ACQUISITION AND EAAB COST OF PERSONNEL



- 30 -
S. B-FINANCIAL PLAN
(AMOUNTS IN USS '000)
SOURCE                                APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                                 ACTUAL (1)
FOREIGN         LOCAL           TOTAL         FOREIGN         LOCAL           TOTAL
IBRD                                            129.00                         129.00          30.20         74.10           104.30
EXPORT CREDITS                                  42.50                          42.50           28.40                         2S.40
OECF (JAPAN) LOAN                                                                              41.60         24.36           65.96
COMERCIAL BANK LOANS (2)                         7.50                           7.50           4.00           6.00           10.00
EAAB CASH (3)                                   37.30          117.20          154.50          58.90          88.30          147-20
CONTRIBUTIONS (EEEB)                                            20.00          20.00            0              0               0
TOTAL FINANCING                                 216.30         137.20          353.50         163.10         192.76          355.86
(1) BASED IN EAAB INFORMATION
(2) FfNDETER LOAN
(3) BASED IN EAAB ESTIMATES



- 31 -
6- PROJECT RESULTS (1)
INDICATORS                         APPRAISAL      ESTINATED
ESTINMATED     AT CLOSING
DATE (2)
LNACCOUNTED FOR WATER                        28%             42%
ENIPLOYEES PER 1000 CONNECTIONS               4.5            3.74
PERSONNEL COST PER M3 SOLD
(IN 1984 PRICES)                              14.3          23.1S
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES DIVIDED             Lew thAn 2           2
BY AVERAGE ANNUAL MONTLY SALES
RATE OF RETURN                                4.5            1.S5
(I) BASED ON BDO audit - AGE REPORT JULY, 1992
(2) DECEMBER 1991



PCR. (Ln -2512-'O)
WATER TARIFF VARIATIIONS
TARIFF (CONSTANT 1915 COLS)                  TARIFF (CURRENT COLS)                  EXCHANGE                  IARIIF IN UJSS                          RATE
YEAR                                  VARIATION                                VARIATION                RATE                             VARIAIION                  OF3
(COLS/M3)                 (%)              (COLS/M3)               U%)              tJSS/COLS            (USVsM3)                (%)            RETIJRN
1914              25.02                                       21.15                                   100.K                0.21(1                                       N.A.
3.88                                    22.11                                                         -12.95
1935              25.99                                       25.99                                   142.3)               (1)I3                                    7.20
1.39                                    22.66                                                         -1(0.17
1916               26.35                                      31.33                                   194.30               0.364                                     5.5)
5.54                                    30.Y3                                                          4.79
1987               27.SI                                      41.71                                  242.60                ((.172                                    3139
10.46                                    41.55                                                         14.77
1988               30.72                                       59.04                                  299.20               o.197                                     4.51
4.17                                    31.39                                                          2 75
19X9               t! (xi                                     77.57                                  3K2.601              (0.2(4                                    4.32
4.53                                    31.34                                                          s 17
19WA )              t 45                                      107.31                                 s(u2 .3(              t(14                                      2 OS
-3.29                                    22.t6                                                         -2 Si
1991               32.35                                      131.14                                 633,(0                 1 201                                    I KS
7.64                                    34.25                                                          11.92
1992               34.32                                      177.00                                 759.30                (o.233                                      NMA.
YEARLY  AVERAGE                         4.2                                                                                                    1.30
COMPARISON BETWEEN TARIFF INCREASE (REAL) AND RATE OF RETURN
12
8
6
o                                                                                                         -. ----.-
-2                     1985                1986                  1987                 1988                  1989                 1990                -1991
-4 
YEAR
| .(. 1%1  TARIFF                   |     R   OF  H



PCR. (Ln -251 2-CO)
COMPARISON BETWEEN PRICE CONTINGENCY ESTIMATED AND REAL
I.OC(AL 1NF-ATION               FOREIGN INFLATION                E.XCHANGE RATE                    PKICE  ( (N  I                    CNOilNNI Y  ICE ('NTlNGENC Y
YEAR        ESTIMATED I        REAL 2        ESTIMATED I         REAL 2        ESTIMATED I           REAL.             RKl:M                        ESI MrAlI)
Fo( 1kEIG N    I.( x ',A.    H)REIGN            I. x( 'AI
1914
1915           2uW              24.00            300             0.30            140.0              142 31           1 14         o 93i            I 04             u9lst
191            21000            15.90            9.00            17.90           ISX 00             194 30          1 117         o X77           112X             I )7
1917           1300             23 30            9.00            9.80            174 00             242' 0          1 294         o Nl             1 21             11171
191U          IX w1             2510             900             7.30            13900              2' J 211        I1 4-11       I IX7           1 W4I             I 11.1
19)9           II'..           2' 30             75.0           -0.70            20700              )1l2 o1         14"I          I1 ,1.1         I 4i2             I 25s
I9SM           1100             29 10            6.00            5.70            23100              i 4)21'A        1 4I-l        1'1.             I NN             1 317
1991           IXW,             3040             6.00            2.20            25700              o33uw           146 Ia          I.            I t.47            141'
1992           I 300            27.00            6.00            430             28 300             75934)        1  i59          u 924           1742              I 4
FILE PRICES
FOREIGN COMPONENT                                                                             LOCAL COMPONENT
z    .8                                                                                        1.5                                                                   II
Lu IU                                                              a~~~~~~~u                      U         U        U         U        U
rez 1.4                                                                                    
z 12                                                                                       z F   0.4
D            ID       r        co       a                         04I                                   o   .'            CD       .      .       .      .
0        0                 00 I      0       o0                                            0       co        co        co       co        0        -n       Dn
YEAR                                                                                       YEAR
* REAL          -0-- ESTIMATED                                                     *    REAL                       I I   ESTIMATED I



- 34 -
7- STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN AGREEMENT
LOAN COVENANT                                      SECTION
Establish and thereafter maintain special account               2.02(B)                       Satisfactory
Carry out the project with diligence and efficiency, and provide  3.01(a)                    OECF Loan became
promptly funds and resoures required                                                          effective Dec 1992
Secure additional fiacing for project execution                 3.01(b)                      OECF Loan became
effective Dec 1992
Appoint a panel of experts for supervision of San Rafael Dam.   3.01(c)                       Satisfactory
Appoint consultants for supervision of Rosales tunnel (Al)      3.01(d)                       Satisfactory
Carry out part "F" according action plan agreed with Bank       3.0 1(e)                     A plan of action was
prepared but its
implementation was not
satisfactory
Not later that August 1, 1989 carry out the study related to    3.01(f)                       Design of first stage of the
Bogota River pollution and flood control (Part E. I)                                         Bogota River interceptor
was executed. Additional
studies related to river
pollution were not executed
Carry its operations in accordance with sound practices under   4.01                         Not fulfilled during some
supervision of qualified management and competent staff                                      years (1988-1998)
Maintain insurances with responsible insurers, and risks and    4.03                         Fulfilled
amounts consistent with appropriate practice
Maintain satisfactory accounts (separate accounts for SOE)      5.0 1-(a)                     Generally unsatisfactory.
SOE accounting was not
maintained separately
Borrower shall have accounts and financial statements for each  5.02                         Fulfilled with delay (in
fiscal year audited, and furnish to the Bank, no later than 4                                 1990 auditors gave
months after end of each such year.                                                           adverse opinion)
Achieve an annual return on fixed assets at least 4.5%          5.04(a)                      Not fulfilled
Adjust the structure and the level of its tariffs to meet the   5.04(c)                      Although in average tariffs
required rate of return                                                                      grew yearly 4.2% in real
terms its were not enough
to meet agreed rates of
return
Furnish to the Bank investnent plan and financial projections   5.05(a)                       Satsfactory
for following five years and afford the bank opportunity to
exchange view" on that.
Not incur capital expenditures (other than project) unless the  5.05(b)                      Satisfactory
amount of capital works be less than 1 million equivalent.
Covent of the Guarantor                                         Guarantee Agreement
Authorizations for import licenses to ensure timely procurement  3.01                        Fulfilled
Take all actions necessary to enable borrower fulfill its       3.02                         Fulfilled
obligations under section 5-04 of loan agreement



8- USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A- SUAFF INPLUIS (WEEKS)
s AG.E * F
I4RO.iv(nl (Y('l.F                xi        FYY4         FY45         FYU                         FY  FYt7  nu  I'h9     IO                        FI92         PF'1 F'94 I9 (IAI.
nufolm    APMAISAL                      1.7         27.Y
11TAISAL TU BOARD                                                 39.4
BOAR D A ORVAL 'IlOUG
I:Fl:EC=TlVNE55                                                3.3
iLJI'IRVISION                       _                             7.3          20.9         19.5        147         15.1        9'2           6 7          17 7        216           4 1         137 1
I 7         27                                     1 209 9 9   147          15.1 9_2                  67           177          216          41          25



- 436 -
9B- MISSIONS
STAGE OF PROJECT                          N'NIBER OF        DA'S IN      SPECIALIZATION        PERFORANLANCE         TYPECOI
CYt'CLE          MlONTHAYEAR         PERSO%i           FIELD      REPRESENTED I/           STATUS 2/        PROBLENI 
Through                       6 1983              I               3                FNA                  _
Appraisal                     9 1983              .               3              EN-FNA
3 1984             6               12         SEN FNA.EN,ECN
__________________            6 1984                              o 10        EGR-FN,.kECN                       __
Appraisal Through
Board Appro1al
Board Appro%al                           _
Through Effectiveness         05 1985      _                      10             FN.- - SE
Superntsion                    11 85 _6                                          FN.A. EN'_    
02 86                              5              FN'A. C                 I
09 86              3               IS           ACHKFNA.EN       _
05 87              1               9                FIN A
12, S7             ,               I        __ FNA.EN                     I
G7 1 S8           11                              I  NA. ENL
12.' 88            2              IS             FNA, EN                  I
_07 /89   _          2         _     3    _         FNA, EN                                            1
11 - 90            2                              FNA - C                 2             LC, MP, AF
05 - 91            i                oFNA                                  2LC, MP, AF  |
12 - 91            3               5             POoSE, C                 2             LC, MPAF
08 * 92            3               S             POO, SE. C               3             LCMP, AF
10 * 92            4              12          POO, SE FNA. C              3            LC, MP. AF
06 - 93            4               14         POO, SE, FNA. C                           LC, MP. AF
1. ACH - ACTING CHIEF. FNA- FrNANCIAL ANALY'ST. EN - ENGINEER SE- SANITARY ENGrNEER. POO- PRINCIPAL OPERATION
OFFICER C-CONSULTANT, ECN - ECONOMIST
2. OVERALL RATING STATUS: I- NO SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS, 2 - NMODERATE PROBLEMS. 3 - MAJOR PROBLEMS
3. LC - NON CONPLIANCE LEGAL COVENANTS, MIP- .\1NAGERIAL PERFORMANCE. AF - AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS



- 37 -
COLOMBIA
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT
(LOAN 2512-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ANNEXES



- 38 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
* ANNEX1   COMPARISON BETWkEEN CIVIL WORKS APPRAISED AND EXECUTED -
TRANSMISSION PRIMARY WATER MAINS
* ANNEX2   COMPARISON BETWEEN CIVIL WORKS APPRAISED AND EXECUTED -
BOOSTER PUMPING STATIONS - STORAGE TANKS
* ANNEX3   TRAINING / TA PARTIALLY FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2512 -CO
* ANNEX4   ACQUISITION OF EQUIPMENT (F.2)
 ANNEX5   RATIO INFLATION INDEX / REVALUATION INDEX
* ANNEX6   ACTUAL COST CALCULATIONS



- 39 -
ANNEX I
COMPARISON BETWFEN CIS1L WORKS APPRAISED AND EXECUTED
PART  '.Z- IR.ANSMISSION  PRIMARY WATER  WAINS
APPRAISAL                           ACTUAL
N ALME                              DIAMETER    LENGHT    DLIAMETER                      LENGHT
(INCHES)           (KCM)          (INCHES)            (Klm)
Ciudad Universitaria - San Diego                                  60-48             5.3
Ciudad niversitaria - Casablanca                                 60-4S              15.4              -                 -
San Diego Zona Intermedia                                         48-42             3.6               36               1.6
Interconexion Z Internedia - Z. Baja                               36               0.3              36                0.3
Refuerzo Zona Occidental - Calle 66A                             30-24              2.8             30-24              2.S
Interconexion Ave.el Dorado - Fenocarril                           24               1.3              24                1.3
RefUerzo Ciudad Kennedy - Av.Arnericas                             24              1.00              24                1.1
Refuerzo Avenida Iro. de Mayo                                      24               1.9              24                1.9
Refuerzo Autopista Sur                                             48              4.00              36                3.8
SanDiego Vitelma                                                   42              5.00
Jalisco- El Castillo                                               20               1.3               24               1.3
El Castillo - El Volador                                           16               1.3               16                1.3
Linea Suba Etapa 1                                                                                   60                5.7
Lines Sileneio - Vitelma                                                                             60                6.5
Linea Silencio -Casablanca                                                                          4S-42              14.5
Linca expresa a Cazuca                                                                                42               2.9
Linea Suba Zona Baja                                                                                  36               2.2
Interconexion K4 - Lourdes                                                                            24               0.5
Refucrzo Vitelma - Las Columnasa                                                                      42               1.5
San Diego - Zona Intermedia U                                                                        4S                2.1
Refuerzo Columnas San Viceart                                                                         30               0.7
Linea a Soacha                                                                                      42-30              1.6
Intcrconexion Verbenali                                                                             24-16              0.5
Linea a Fontibon                                                                                    36-30              3.7
Linea a Gran Bntalia                                                                                24-16              2.6
Linea Bombeo Saninario                                                                                12               0.9
Distribucion Quebrada la Vieja                                                                        20               2.8
Suba- Rincon                                                                                        36-24              2.5
Plan Emergencia Verano (89-90)                                                                                         1.9
TOTAL                                                    43.2                                68.5



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
COMPARISON BETWEEN ClIVL WORKS APPRA1SED kND E3;ECLTED
PA-RT A * BOOSTER PUMIPING STATIONS
NAME                          APPRAISAL                ACTUAL
(No.UNITS)             (No.UNITS)
Las Columnas - San Vi.ente                           3                       3
San Vicente - Los AJpes                              3                       3
Los Apes - Quindio                                   I                       I
Quindio - Juan rey                                   I
Jalisco - Castillo                                   3                       3
Castillo - V olador                                  3                       3
Semrinato                                            .                       2
San Dionisio                                                                 2
P-ART A-4 STORAGE TANKS
NAME                          APPRAISAL                ACTUAL
CAPACrTY (M3)          CAPACITY (M3)
San Diego                                         10800 (1)
San Vicant                                        3537 (1)                5537 (2)
El Quindio                                        1700 (1)                1700 (2)
Juan Rey                                            500 (1)                500 (2)
La LA1M                                            250 (1)
Silmncio                                                                   30000
El Chico                                                                   7000
La Cohlui                                                                   1200
Cazuca                                                                     10500
Mouobbnoo                                                                   5000
El Uval                                                                     1000
(1) Capacity a to be Added
(2) Capacity Added



- 41 -                           ANNEX3
Page I of 3
TRAINING / TA PARTIALLY FNA.NCED UNDER LOAN 2512-CO
1985  \Viiticos al extenor Hermes Huertas
1988  Especializacion MIT Rene Mtathius- Adm6n. de provectos.
1989  Asistencia Seminano de presas American Water Fundation. Nestor Fonseca.
1989  Asistencia al Ferns States 'niversirv curso tenologia en equipo pesado. Rafael
Espinosa.
1989  Contrato estudio de problemas arnbientales.
1989  Foro Lnstitucional sobre agua subterrinea. Acoagua.
1989  Seminario Taller Revisaria Fiscal Instituto Nacional de Contadores Publicos.
1989  Taller de relaciones humanas ! capacutacion.
1989  Curso de soldadura de mantenimiento. Sager v Cia.
1989   Participaci6n al Congreso Nacional de Acodal.
1989   Semmano AdmLrustracion Financiera para ejecutivos no Financieros. Uniandes.
1989  Semuiario Educaci6n. Participacion v desarrollo Comunitario. U Javeriana.
1989  Cursos de Ingles. Winston Salem.
1989  Curso de Relaciones Humanas personal Direccion de Suscriptores.
1989  Seminario Taller Organizacion v Administracion de Archivos Documentos y
Correspondencia.Acoplex.
1989  Especializacion en Sistemas de Informaci6n. U Andes.
1989  Curso basico sobre corrosion v protecci6n cat6dica. Protecci6n Cat6dica de Col Itda.
1989  Cursos bisicos de Ingles. Centro Colombo Americano.
1989  Asistencia al Congreso Nacional de Secretarias. Cades.
1989  Especializacion en Administracion. Escuela de Admmistracion de Negocios.
1989  Semninario redacci6n Profesional para secretarias.
1989  Seminario. El tratamiento tecnico aplicable al estatuto sobre compras oficiales. lcpes.
1989  Curso de Diseno de estructuras de acero con factores de carga y resistencia. U
Nacional.
1989  Asistencia al Congreso Nacional de Derecho Procesal.
1989  Curso de Hidriulica del transporte de sedimentos.
1989  Curso de Lnspecci6n, Control y manejo de riesgos de ambientes confinados para
Empresas de servicios Publicos.
1989  Seminaro de microsistemas a] servicio del control de calidad. Icontec.
1989  Seminario Taller de protocolo. U Jorge Tadeo Lozano.
1989  Seninario reforma al c6digo contencioso administrativo. U Sergio Arboleda.
1989  Seminario de contratos de varantia. Colegio de abogados Rosaristas.
1989  Seminario Taller dirigido docente.
1989  Seminario Administracion dc Recursos humanos . U Jorge Tadeo lozano.
1989  Congreso Distrital de educaci6n Fisica. Asociaci6n Colombiana de Edufisica.
1989  Seminario Nuevas Tecnologias en disefio y robotica.
1989  Curso basico de Ingles. Consejo britanico.
1989  Cursos basicos de Ingles. Centro Colombo Amencano.
1989  Seminario Taller de lubricaci6n basica. Sociedad Colombiana de Ing. Quimica.
1989  Jornadas estructurales de la Lngenieria de Colombia. sociedad Colombiana de
Ingerueros.
1989  Seminano Politica y Legislacion forestal colombiana. Asociaci6n Colombiana de
Ingenieros Forestales.
1989  Seminano intensivo del acero en la construccion. Lnstituto Nacional del acero.



- 42 -                           ANNEX3
Page 2 of 3
1989  Seminano selecci6n de Aceros v tratamientos termicos. Instituto Nacional del acero.
1989  Seminario Taller la funcion de organizaciOn v metodos en el proceso de
sistematizacion. DirectoresTop %lanagent.
1989   Curso de computaci6n avanzado
1989   Curso de higienista dental.
1989  Seminario Nacional de clencias medicas. Colegio Colombiano de medicos de
urgencias.
1989   Especializacion en calculo actuanal. U Akntonio Narinio.
1989  Congreso de informatica documento Universal. Acuc
1989   Post- grado en Economia. L Ja% criana.
1989   Curso de pitometria nivel 1V Cenaeua.
1989  Seminario sobre control de p.rdidas de agua, Acodal Valle.
1989  Seminano sobre Ingenieria Sismica. U Andes.
1989   Curso sobre instalaciones electncas interiores. Sociedad Colombiana de Ingenieros.
1989   Seminario sobre la inflacion tratamiento contable v tnbutario. Instituto Nacional de
Contadores Publicos.
1989  Curso de relaciones humanas para funcionarios del area de reclamos.
1989  lomadas Internacionales de Derecho laboral. U Javeriana.
1989  Curso de introducci6n a los computadores y dos. Sise.
1989  Curso de computaci6n avanzado Compuclub.
1989   Especializacion en finanzas. U Andes.
1989   Especializacion en finanzas. U Andes.
1989  Curso de Lotus basico. Sise.
1989  Curso de Introduccion a los computadores. Sise.
1989  Seminario taller de aplicacion v uso de computadores en la Ingenieria Municipal.
Acodal.
1989  Congreso Nacional Javeriano. U Javeriana.
1989 Maestria en Adrninistracion de salud. U Javeriana.
1989  Congreso Distrital de recreaci6n. Jundeportes.
1989  Curso de inspectores. Cenagua.
1989  Curso teorico practico sobre higiene ocupacional basica. U Distritl Francisco Jose de
Caldas.
1989  Conferencias sobre bases de datos. Asociacion Colombiana de Ing de Sistemnas.
1989   Seminario Congreso Internacional de Tuneles Toronto Canada.
1989  seminario sobre herramientas estadisticas aplicables al control de calidad. Icontec
1989  Especializaci6n en finanzas. U la Salle.
1989  Curso Introducci6n a microcomputadores. DOS. Sise.
1989  Congreso Internacional de la AWWA. Los Angeles.
1989  Curso de capacitacion v tallcr de prestaciones sociales. Ingasind.
1989  Curso de relaciones interpcrsonales para operadores de bombas.
1989  Prograrna basico de Gercncia Financiera. U Javeriana.
1989  Curso de procesos evaluadorcs.
1989  Auditoria laterna como funcion asesora de la Gerencia. Incolda.
1989  Curso principios de instrurnmntacion electrica v electr6nica.
1989  Curso de Ingles para ejecutixos. Centro Colombo Americano.
1989  Curso de calidad en las relaciones humanas.
1989  Especializaci6n en finanzas. U Andes.
1989  Curso de administracion centrada en el hombre. U Andes.
1989  Congreso Intemacional de onente. U Santo Tomas
1989  Cursos de pitometria (primer cicio ). Cenagua.
1989  Cursos de pitometria (sdo ciclo ). Cenagua.



- 43 -                           ANNEX3
Page 3 of 3
1990  Especializaci6n en finanzas internacionales.
1990  Postgrado en salud ocupacional. Fundacion escuela Colombiana de medicina.
1990  Especializacion en telematica.
1990 NMagister en estudios politicos. U Javeriana.
1990  Magister en Administraci6n. U Andes.
1990   Especializacion en Administracion de Obras Civiles.
1990  Especializacion tecnoldgica en informatica.
1990 Epecializacion en Economia. U Javeriana.
1990  Especializacion en administracidn de salud. U Javeriana.
1990  Cursos basicos de ingles. Centro Colombo Americano.
1990  Seminanro Nacional de estrategias administrativas para optimizar la funcidn de calidad
en las Instituciones de sernicio. U Sabana.
1990  Curso basico de natacion. Cruz roja Colombiana.
1990  Maestnra en Administraci6n de salud.U Javenrana.
1990  Curso de capacitacion en presupuesto.
1990  Seminano tecnicas de expresion oral para conferencistas del programa de induccidn.
1990  Semmano graficas de control v herramientas estadisticas aplicables al control de
calidad. Icontec.
1990  Especializacion en Administracion hospitalartia. EAN.
1990  Curso especializado de salvarnento acuatico. Escuela de salvamento acuatico.
1990  Especializacion en Finanzas. U Andes.
1990  Magister en administracion. U la Salle.
1990  Especializacidn en Sistemas de informaci6n. U Andes.
1991   Curso de paisajismo y arboricultura urbana. Asociaci6n Colombiana de Ingenieros
forestales.
1991  IV Foro Institucional sobre aguas subterraneas. Acoagua.
1991   Seninario de alineamiento de maquinaria - Control de vibraciones choque y ruido.
Controlar.
1991 Seminario de aspectos contables financieros y jundicos en proyectos de Ingenieria.
Aicun.
1991 Curso basico de corrosidn . Asociacidn Colombiana de Ingenieros de corrosi6n.
1991   Curso basico de lotus 123. Telec6mputo.
1991   Seminario AsociacidnAICO.
1991   Curso Dbase basico y lotus. Sistemas y trabajo ltda.
1991 Curso de actualizacidn en estructuras. Sociedad Colombiana de Ingenieros.
1991   Seminario internacional sobre irnpacto ambiental. Acodal.
1991   Curso de world perfect. Telecomputo.
1991  Curso de t&nicas y procedimientos simplificados para la realizaci6n de bioensayos a
bajo costo. Instituto de biotecnologia.
1991 Seminario taller sobre seguridad e higiene industrial. Comnfenalco.
1991  Curso de operadores de equipo tecruco.
1991  Curso de inspectores. Cenagua.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
ACQUISITION OF EQUIPMENT (F-2)
EQUIPO DE MANTENTNMIENTO
20    Volquetas
12    Camiones
3     Carrotanques
2     Buses
I     Volqueta 9 Ton.
3     Montacargas
I     Retroexcavador
7     Cargadores
6     Equipos de limpieza alcantarillas
Bombas, motores electricos v otros equipos menores
Repuestos y herramientas
*     EQUIPOS DE PROCESANIEENTO DE DATOS
Computadores
Impresoras y plotter
Software
Modems, lectores opticos
-   EQUIPOS DE COMUNICACION
Equipos de comunicaci6n
Repetidora y antenas
Monitor
*   INSTRUMENTACION
Centro de control
Instnumentos de medida
Repuestos Telemetria                           9
EQUIPOS E INSTRI MENTOS PARA DETECCION DE FUGAS
Instrumentos
Equipos de laboratorio
Repuestos y elementos



PCR (In -2512-CO)
RAlIO ( INFI.ArION INDEXY (DEVALJATION  INDEX)
ANNUAL            CUMULATIVE                  FOREIGN iNFLATION                        EXCIIANGE RA   KAIl l                     R A IIt
YlAR               LOCAL                  LOCAL                ANNUAL            CUMULATIVE             USSICOIS          CUJMULI.A1lVI
INFLAll(N             INFLATION                KATE                                   C(lIANGiE          DlEVAI UA1 ItON       INFII AT/IDVAI.
1934
5935                       24.tk0                  24.04                 0.34               0.30                 542 3H                    I4                U.AIM414
1916                       11.90                   4290                17.90              11.70                 194.30)               1654                  1 174
1937                       23.30                   66.20                 9.30              23.50                242.64)                61 414               1HI1M
19Y                       2.150                   94.30                 7.30              35310                299.2U                 M4.7                  1.113
1939                       25.9U                  120.10                -0.70              35.10                132.60                1412 6I                 .067
9u "PA)                    15 115I   22                                  5.70              40.30                 5112 144             144J)                  (#,49K
I5                         I54t2l J!              169.64                 2.20              43.00                61. 44N)              149,4)                 WPM, 44
un92                       27.04                  196.63                 4.30              47.30                 759 l0               I X59 Xi,              I u4 I.
5993                       21.00                  217.61                 0.50              47.Yo                342.1)1               195 515                I III  3
Ln
INFLATION I DEVALUATION RATIO
1.20
1.15
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.10
>1.05                                        ~~.
jz1.00
t 0.95
0.90
0.85                                                                                                                                                                                X
0.80         _.                                                                                                       ,                 ,                                          44u
1986              1987              1988              1989               1990              1                     1 I
YEAR



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
ACTUAL PROJECT COST CALCULATIONS
THE ACTUAL COST INCLUDE THE OECF (A.P.AN) .AND FINDETER LO,ANS A-ND THEIR ESTIMATED
DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN LOCAiL .AD FOREIGN COST. WHEN THE PROJECT OF SAN RAFAEL BE
CUNCLLTDED IN APRIL 1996
A- LOC.AL COST (IN US S THOUSANDS)
_______  E.AAB - COUNTER PART   _______OECF
CATEGORY           IBRD           OECF         FINDETER          IBRD          (JAPAN)       FINDETER          TOTAL
LO.AN;         LOAN           LOAN                           LOAN           LOAN
1            10.704                                         6,858                                         17.!62
2             18.964                                        18.034                                        36.998
3            60.264          13.564          4.500          37,54S         39,576          6.000          161.452
4             11.867                                        I1,507                                        23.334
5                                                            166                                            166
(')OTHER (1)       15,257                                                                                       15.257
117,056         13,564         4,500          74,113         39,576          6,000          254.809
_______________      135.120
(I) LAND ACQUISITION AND EAAB PERSONNEL
B- FOREIGN COST (INJ US S THOUSANDS)
EAAB COUNT ER PART
CATEGORY           OECF         FINDETER         IBRD            OECF         FINDETER        EXPORT           TOTAL
LOAN           LOAN                           LOAN           LOAN          CREDITS
1                                           10,985                                                        10.985
2                                           12,764                                        2S,400          41,164
3             9,042          3,000           1,831          26,384         4,000                          44,257
4                                           4,409                                                          4,409
5                                            191                                                            191
() OTHER      __._.
9,042          3,000         30,180          26,384          4,000          28,400          101,006
'\I MMARY ([N US S THOUSANDS)
LOCAL         FOREIGN         TOTAL
CATEGORY                                         COST           COST
I- CIlIL WORPKS (PARTA.I)                                          17,562         10,985          28,547
2- EQUIPMENT .AND MATERIALS (PARTS A. B. C. F                      36,998          41,164         7S,162
EXCEPT PART A.3)
3- CIVIL WORKS PARTS A, B. C. D (EXCEPT.A 1)                       161,452        44,257         205,709
4- CONSULT.ANT SERVICES                                            23,374          4.409          27,783
5- TRAINING AND SCOLARSHIPS (PARTE F)                                166            191            357
') OTHER COSTS (LAND ACQLISITION, E.A--B
PERSONNEL                                                        15,257                   1    15.257
254,809        101.006        355.815



