Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3966
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IKNERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt129 MILLION
TO
EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO & ALCANT&RILLADO DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
March 14, 1985
his d_cumeat hs a restricted distribution and my be used by recipiats dy in the perfommnce of
tb  effie  dutie  Its coateos may not otherwise be disdosed without Wodd Bnk usirimadzon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    n                         Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$101.8                             -   US$1.00 (1984 average)
Col$115.31                            -   US$1.00 (exchange rate effective
Jan. 21, 1985)
Col$1                                 -   US$0.0087 (exchange rate effective
Jan. 21, 1985)
.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOI OFFIAL USE. ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCR       Banco Central Bipotecario
(Central Mortgage Bank)
CAR       Corporacion Autonoma Regional de la Sabana de Bogota
y de lo0 Valles de Ubate y Chiquinquira
(Regional Bogota Plains Autonomous Corporation)
DANE      Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
(National Bureau of Statistics)
DNP       Oepartamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
EAAB      Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota
(Bogota Water and Sewerage Company)
EEEB      Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(Bogota Electric Energy Company)
EMPOS     Empresa de Obras Sanitarias
(Sanitation Works Company)
EPM       Empresa Publicas Municipales
(Municipal Public Works Company)
FVDU      Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Fund for Urban Development)
INCOMEX   Instituto de Comercio Exterior
(Institute of External Comerce)
INAS      Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National IAstitute of Health)
INSFOPAL Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(National Institute of Urban Development)
JNT       Junta Nacional de Tarifas
(National Tariff Board)
MSP       Ministerio de Salud Publica
(Ministry of Public Health)
This document has a restricted distribuuion and may be used by recpienus only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank: authorintion.



COLOMBIA
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota (EAAB)
Guarantor:             Republic of Colombia
Amount:                US$129.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 17 years, including 5 years grace (para. 40), at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would continue the Bank's past
efforts to provide essential water supply and sewerage
infrastructure for Bogota. It would consist of (a)
construction of a major water transmission tunnel and
main; (b) primary water distribution system
reinforcements; (c) water distribution System
rehabilitation; (d) additions to water, sewage and
drainage networks for low-income neighborhoods; (e) a
reservoir for untreated raw water storage; (f) metered
house connections; (g) tecbnical assistance for the
institutional improvement of EAAB; and (h)
implementation planning for a project to control
flooding and pollution of the Bogota River.
The project would enable EAAB to utilize in full
existing water production capacity constructed under
previous Bank financed projects. It is expected that
approximately 2.1 million persons would benefit from
the project by 1992, of which about 54Z would be the
urbar; poor.
Risks:                 To finance the proposed project, EAAB vill have to
secure suppliers' credits, to contain its costs
(especially personnel), and to raise its tariffs by
152 in real terms by the end of 1989. Because the
availability of suppliers' credits can not be assured
in advance of bidding for the equipment to be
financed, there is some risk of delay in the
implementation of the project. Delays in taking
actions to control the costs and to rain.e the tariffs
may adversely affect EAAB's financial position and the
project financing. However, EAAB is atI experienced
borrower, having successfully implemented a larger and



more complicated project than the preanat one under
Bank loan No. 741-Co. Contingent Bank financing for
bigh priority pipeas ha. also been provided for,
particularly in view of cur=ent uncertalnties in
mobilizing ezt -il resources, in tha avant that
appropriate co-. nanclng cannot be obtained for this
item.
Estimated Cost:                                   Local   Foreign    Total
-- - - USS Million - - - -
Primary water distribution                    42.9      49.6      92.5
Distribution rehabilitation                    8.1       6.9      15.0
Secondary netwrorks                           13.6      22.6      36.2
Emrgency storage                              17.7      22.3      40.0
Rio Bogota project i2plentat4an study          1.1       1.0       2.1
Imsticutional iaprovement oi zAAB              2.5      13.2      15.7
Engineering and administration                20.8       5.8      26.6
ase Cost                                106.7     121.4    228.1
Physical continjencies                         7.8       9.3      17.1
Price continbgncies                           22.7      48.0      70.7
Total Project Cost                      137.2    -178.7     315.9
Capitalized Interest                          -         37.6      37.6
Total Financing Required                137.2     216.3     353.5
Financing Plan:
ZBRD loan                                     -        129.0     1 29.0
Suppliers' credits                            -         42.5      42.5
Comercial bank loans                          -          7.5       7.5
EAAB's internal cash generation
and customer contributions                 117.2      37.3     154.5
Otherj/                                       20.0      -         20.0
Total Financing                         137.2     216.3     353.5
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  1993
--S- -              -USS million
Annual                 22.5  20.1   22.6  22.7  20.7   13.8    5.9    0.7
Cumulative             22.5  42.6   65.2  87.9  108.6  122.4  128.3  129.0
Rate of Return:   About 13S (for project components which account for
about 922 of the total project coSt).
ApPraisal Report: Report No. 5278-CO, datad February 28, 1985.
/ Including contrIbution by the Bogota Electric Company (SE3B) for
construction of the ozmrpgncy wLter storap component (parm. 48).



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reco_mendation on a proposed loan to
Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota, with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$129 million to help finance a
Fourth Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s. From a largely rural and agricultural base, the economy has
evolved into one that is more integrated with a greater urban-industrial and
services orientation today. The growing economic activity, rapid rural-urban
migration, together with the increased participation of women in the labor
force and expanded public services, has been instrumental in reducing poverty
and improving income distribution over time. Financial and capital markets
have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs of the economy, and the
v        country has become an active participant in international capital markets.
The state enterprises are few, follow adequate pricing policies, and many have
some form of private sector participation. The country's energy balance has been
changing in recent years and the country is expected to become a net petroleum
exporter in 1986 and to increasingly become an exporter of thermal coal.
4.        In the 1950s and early 1960s, development policy favored import
substitution supported by high tariff protection. By the mid-1960s, the prospects
for further import substitution were substantially reduced, and the country was
confronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments in
the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, beginning in 1967 the
authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding and



-2-
diversifying exports. Export promotion policies, in:luding fruquent small
devaluationu, export tax rebates and other incentives were introduced and the
authorities begau lowering tariffa somewhat and relaxing capital markets controls
as a moans of raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and
competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were
highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating
growth and employment. However, by 1974 the economy waS once again experiencing
difficulties caused primarily by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank
financing of the Central Government's deficit.
A. Colombia's Economic Performance During the 1970'.
5.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully offecdlve, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports., together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances gene-
rated overall surpluses averaging about 1Z of GDP during the 1976-78 period
and, by the end of 1979, net official internat4onal reserves had risen to
about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 1Z months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evelucion of the economy. The rate of
currency devaluation was slowed and the conversion of export receipts into
pesos was delayed to moderate the growth of domestic demand, with adverse
effects on export expansion and diversification. Also, the Government sought
to control inflation by maintaining high reserve requirements and expand
controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms, the financing available
to the private sector via the official capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restraining
aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to
the effects of the increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome
financial market distortions, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat and in early 1980,
credit restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest rates on certificates
of deposit-and on lending therefromr-were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized import
payments and adopted the policy of.not expanding the subsidized selective credit
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resource captured from private
savings for this purpose. The effects of the above measures were not immediately
noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4Z in 1980 from an average of amost 6Y
since 1960, unemployment started to creep up, and-inflationary pressures
continued.
B. Recent Economic Developments: the Early 1980s
8.        In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated to



-3-
2.5Z in 1981 fell to about 1Z on average in 1982 and 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit as the production of cotton, oil seeds and other
agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low international prices,
reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated
on account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued
to increase, particularly in manufacturing. As a result, unemployment
reached almost 142 of the labor force at the end of the year, up from about
72 at the end of 1981. Inflation, however, slowed down in 1983 to a 20Z
average for the year, down from 282 in 1981 and 252 in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in
a        the resource balance In 1981 of about USS1.5 billion, which increased on
average to about US$2 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly from a
drop in exports by about 4Z annually in real terms: major reasons were the
slowdown in world demand, a major devaluation and import restrictions in
Venezuela-a major trading partner-in 1983, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below the
1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$1.8
billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent to about 6 months of imports
of goods and non-factor services. On the fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue
growth, together with increased current expenditures resulting from a system of
automatic transfers and large infrastructure investments in energy and transport
led to growing deficits: the overall Central Government cash deficit grew from
2.12 of GDP in 1980 to 3.7Z in 1983, while that of the consolidated public sector
rose from 3.6Z to 6.5Z respectively.
10.       In response to the deteriorating economic conditions, in 1983 the
Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate demand, expand and diversify
non-coffee exports, and resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated; the housing construction industry was provided with incentives to
mobilize an increasing amount of resources; and selective credit operations to the
productive se:tors were expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced
to arrest the falling foreign exchange reserves, with a view to being lifted once
the real exchange rate improved and exports responded to this incentive. The
Government also adopted a series of measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and ease
distortions and restrictions in the financial system. While the thrust of these
measures was in the right direction, they were clearly insufficient to reverse the
deteriorating trends. At the same time, the country began to be affected by the
tight international capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American
countries, has not had a debt problem because of the high share of concessional
debt in total debt outstanding and the term structure of such debt. Nevertheless,
a sharp reduction, over a very short period, in the credit lines available to
Colombia, and reluctance to provide medium-term loans to complete ongoing
projects, resulting from the overall debt problem of Latin America, has
contributed to further declines in foreign exchange reserves and to strains in the
financial system.
11.       As a result of the Government's policy initiatives, a reversal of
the deteriorating trends began to take place in 1984 with a resumption of
growth in manufacturing and non-coffee agriculture and an expansion in
exports. At the same time government policy focused on demand management
and emphasized the approval of additional revenue and expenditure measures to
contain the fiscal deficit and tighten monetary expansion. In parallel to these
actiops, the Government accelerated the exchange rate devaluations further and



-4-
increased incentives to exports, it also moved to improve the profitability of the
commrcial banking system's operations and resolve the external debt problems of
the private sector   The policy reforms began co taka hold during the second half
of 1984. As a result, real GDP growth Increased to 3.1X, the unemployeunt rate
fell to 132 of the labor force at year's and while inflation was brought down to
16.4X on average. Export performance improved, with total merchandise exports
growing at over 16Z in nominal terms compared to 1983; the current account deficit
in the balance of payments was reduced by about US$1 billion to 5X of GDP.  The
losses in foreign exchange reserves, which had accelerated during the first half
of 1984, were reduced during the second half of 1984 and reserves remained at
about USS1.8 billion, equivalent to about 4 months of imports of goods and
non-factor services. Additional fiscal measures were introduced towards the end
of the year while the overall public sector deficit stabilized at an estimated
6.7X of GDP, still a high level.
Current Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishlng its development objectives
is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This strategy emphasizes
growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the benefits of development to
Colombia's population. The strategy also places high priority on the resumption
of growth while- maintaining price stability-- Thus the Government is reorienting
its trade policies toward an outward-looking growth to take advantage of
medium-term trade prospects. In addition, efficient programming of the public
sector investments and rational pricing policies are to serve as instruments to
support sound medium-term development. In the meantime short term stabilization
requirements and continued medium-term adjusts nts have become necessary in view
of the abovementioned aacroeconomic problems. A stabilization cum adjustment
program has been initiated. Aspects of the program that have become explicit
especially for 1985-86 are spelt out below.
13.       Fiscal Policy.  In addition to those in effect during 1984, the 1985-86
program includes new measures which were approved by Congress in December 1984 and
which will be effective in 1985. These comprise additional measures to eliminate
deductions in the income tax, a broader base for the value-added tax, an increase
in stamp taxes and an additional temporary 8% import cax, which together should
result in addicional ColS55.5 billion in revenues during 1985. Additional
measures totalling ColS17 billion in revenue collections have been presented for
Congress' approval. As regards to expenditures, in public sector salaries
approved for 1985 mean a reduction by about 102 on average in real terms. Publlc
sector subsidies in transport have been reduced and a scaling down of the
investment program has begun. Additional expenditure measures, expected to be
approved by Congress in April 1985 concern a significant slowing down in the rate
of increase of Central Government transfers to local governments, streamlining of
decentralized agencies and expenditure controls. The combijned effect of the
revenue and expenditure policies is projected to significantly lower the overall
cash deficit to ColS85 billion (less than 2Z of GDP) in 1985 and ColS8. billion
(1.5Z of GDP) in 1986 from an estimated Col$139 billion (3.8Z of GDP) in 1984.
The improvement in the Central Government's fiscal performance combined with the
scaling down of the public investment program and real increases in revenues of
public enterprises (in part as a result of tariff policy) is projected to lower
the overall public sector deficic from an estimated 6.7% of GDP in 1984 to 4.2% in
1985 and 2.3% in 1986.



-5-
14.       Investment Program.  The scaling down of the investment program includes
the postponement or cancellation of all new large scale power generation and a
number of large transport projects. The revised program, which implies containing
public sector investment to about 9.2X of GDP during 1985-86 compared to 10.52
during 1983-84, largely consists of projects which already are in execution or for
which loans have been contracted. The investment program is dominated by the
mining and power sectors. The mining investments of nearly US$ 2 billion include
ECOPETROL's petroleum production and development program in association with
foreign partners and CARBOCOL's engoing El Cerrejon Coal project; a joint venture
with EXXON. Both would contribute to a significant increase in export earnings
from 1987 onwards. The power sector investment program essentially comprises
ongoing generation projects, msay of which are in an advanced stage of completion,
and some new transmission and distribution schemes to utilize the additional
capacity and reduce losses, and thus, to contribute to an improvement in the final
performance of the power sector.
15.       Monetary Policy.  A case deficit of about Col$83 billion on average
during 1985-86 will allow for a dramatic reduction in monetary financing to the
public sector from the high 1984 level of about Col$150 billion. Central Bank
financing of the deficit will be kept to about Col$35 billion during 1985-86
annually, rising modestly in nominal terms thereafter. This would permit the
growth in total domestic credit from the Central Bank to be kept in line with the
growth in nominal GDP during the period. Such an outcome would also be a critical
element of the program during a time period when no major fall in reserves can be
sustained, because it would reduce the pressure on the growth of the monetary base
and thus of monetary expansion. With year-end levels of reserves at about
US$1,800 million during 1985-86, a fiscal policy as discussed above and a moderate
expansion of credit to the private sector, the growth in the monetary base can be
kept to about 232 annually. With no significant changes in the money multiplier,
the growth in money supply would also be of this magnitude, or in line with the
expected growth of nominal GDP.
16.       Exchange Rate Policy.  After years of steady appreciation, the Colombian
peso depreciated (i.e. improved) in real terms against the US dollar by a large
margin during 1983-84. Given the rapid appreciation of the US dollar against other
major currencies, however, the peso depreciation against a basket of relevant
currencies was much more modest. Nevertheless, a trade weighted index indicates a
gain of about 10Z in 1984 on average raising the index to about 83.5 compared to a
mid-1970s base and further improvements are expected in 1985.
17.       Import Policy.  The persistence of external resource gaps during 1983-84
forced the Government to rely on quantitative restrictions.  Mindful of the
resource misallocation effects of quantitative restrictions, however, the
Government intends to undertake their phased elimination, beginning with the
removal of all import controls on inputs and intermediate goods for exports. In
addition, average nominal tariff rates which were fairly stable during 1979-81,
increased in 1983, and again substantially in 1984 including an increase in the
dispersion. Though temporary, these developments will entail policy actions for a
reduction of dispersion and levels in tariffs.
18.       Foreign Borrowing Strategy.  A critical assumption underpinning the
foreign exchange reserve scenario concerns the stabilization of reserve levels.
Major support for tradeables is expected to be obtained from exchange rate
adjustments in 1985: medium term export and import projections indicate a steady
decline in the current account deficit. A significant reversal in capital inflows



ia also required: even with the reduction in the current account deficit, p,tonn
disburse.ents from newly committed and already *i8ned commercial bank financing of
about US$580 million (a 1180235 million increase or leos than a 42 increase in net
exposure for the co _m rial banks) for project financing will be needed to
stabilize reserves in 1985.
19.       The projected pattern of gross disbursements indicates an
increasing dependence in relative terms on official sources of finance
(multilateral institutions, bilateral development agencies and export credic
agencies) in recognition of the country exposure constraints with external
comercial bank..  More than half of the new commitments and disbursements
during 1985-86, inelWding the additional commercial bank resources requested,
would be for the productive sectors. In order to support the expansion of
the trade sector, it is also estimated that the country will require mainte-
nance of its short-term credit lines available from its major external bank
creditors to levels prevailing at the end of 1984, roughly US$1.5 billion.
This should be possible within the authorized levels of exposure of external
commercial banks in Colombia.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
20.       Given the country's successful implementation of the medium-term
adjustirnt program during 1985-86, Colombia's growth prospects for the rest
of the decade are reasonably good. Because of the significant stabilization
and structural adjustment meaures being undertaken to restore the country's
international compstitiveness, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments is projected to average US$1.3 billion per year during 1985-06,
equivalent to about 3.62 of GDP. The deficit is projected to be financed by
increasing disburae..nts of existing and projected public and publicly
guaranteed and private sector loans and by direct foreign investment. By rhe
end of this period, net official international reserves would have been
maintained at a level of about four months of imports of goods and non-factor
services (a level which is adequate for Colombia). This should be suFiœcienc
to support an average growth of real GDP of 2.5Z during 1985-86, led by an
expansion Ln agriculture and industry. To achieve this real GDP growth,
total investment will have to be maintained at about 18.5Z of GDP to
complete existing long-gestating projects in the energy and mining sector
while an increased utilization of existing industrial capacity takes place; and to
avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross domestic
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
21.       The proposed loan, the 111th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,460.0 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1984,
US$3,192.6 million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961.
Disbursements have been completed on 67 loans and the IDA credit. Before 1979,
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but had increased to
US$286 million in FY84, reflecting the higher level of commitments in the late
19709. While disbursements in Colombia have been slower than those recorded in
the Latin American Region for similar projects, concentrated efforts to overcome
problems to initiate project execution have resulted in a significant increase in



-7-
disbursements during FY83 and FY84. Improving performance of social sector
institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment
of inflationary pressures and the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal
reforms, which should improve counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of
disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting
commitments of US$126.1 million in 29 enterprises and as of September 30, 1984, it
held US$50.1 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the
IDA credit and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
22.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88% of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53% of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 37% were for power and transport, 17% for industry, 15Z
for agriculture, 7% each for urban development and water supply, 4Z each for
telecommunications and irrigation, 22 for petroleum development and 7X for
education, nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversification was indeed a
desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader range of
Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served to identify
areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to enable
lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a
meaningful impact.
23.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government through its lending activity has
focussed upon the need to mobilize additional domestic resources, to diversify and
expand exports, to develop rapidly the country's energy resources, and to free the
economy from excessive controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate
and pricing policies, as well as incentives for exports and reduction in the level
of effective protection. Positive results have been obtained particularly in the
power sector, where power rates were increased sharply and a least-cost expansion
was formulated and launched. Similar results have been achieved in respect of
some other public services, including appropriate charges for water for irrigation
and domestic use and petroleum prices.
24.       In lending to Colombia, the Bank has been supporting the Government's
efforts to maintain sustained economic growth with financial stability, expanded
and diversified exports, increased dependence on domestic sources of energy,
provision of key infrastructure, and improvement of living conditions of the
poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's having undertaken a gradual
adjustment process to expand and diversify non-coffee exports and to resume
growth, the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards strengthening the
Government's programs, by enhancing the effectiveness of resource use, and giving
priority to quick-yielding investments. Within this framework, special attention
has been given to loans which would finance directly productive activities, such
as agriculture and industry, support efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, increase and diversify exports and help develop renewable sources
of energy through lending for hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing.
The emphasis is being placed on operations geared towards productive sectors and
essential infrastructure development which would: (i) increase output rapidly;
(ii) reorient production towards exports and efficient import-competing goods;
(iii) support quick-yielding infrastructure investments, particu'larly those that



-8-
enable the use existing facilities uoVe intensively; and (iv) increase resource
mobilization. Loans recently approved by che Board, and a number of operations at
an advanced stage of preparation, reflect this overall direction.
25.       The Bank lending in FY84 consisted of loans for power sector financing
of ongoing investments, coal exploration, earthquake reconstruction, agricultural
diversification and multi-purpose water supply and electricity development,
totalling US$464.1 millions In addition, the Bank participated in two B-loan. for
a total of 142 of the loans, or US$28.75 million.  In FY85 and beyond, increased
emphasis is being placed on directly-productive project&, as under the
already-approved loans for agricultural diversification, small-scale indus try,
petroleum, and development banking.  Work is underway on projects for Irrigation
rehabilitation, agricultural technology transfer, agricultural credit, and
vocational training. A proposed trade policy and export diversification project
is designed to support the first phase of trade policy adjustments in Colombia.
In infrastructure, the Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more
intensive use of the existing facilities in ports rehabilitation, water supply and
electricity distribution projects, and rural feeder roads. The project described
in this report has similar characteristics, together with a focus on particular
needs of the urban poor. Finally, several projects in preparation will also
support the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the Colombian
population. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural credit,
water supply and sewerage, and public health will help improve the standard of
living of the poor, while being designed to make better use of existing capacity
.md reduce losses.
26.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then
te some 49% for the 1975-82 period and iS expected to decline further to about 40S
of extarnal capital requirements during the eighties. IDB has given increased
emphasis to energy-relatod projects, in addition to those for low-cost housing,
urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply,
rural electrification und land erosion control, which are aimd at improving
living standards of the lower-incom population. In the future, it proposes to
assist. Colombia in developing sources of dometic energy and in expanding
productive sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has
supported programs in education, rural development and small farm development, b;at
is phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing
for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Setting
27.       Colombia's population (28 million in 1983) is currently growing at
an annual rate of 2.1%, down from 3.0% in 1964, due primarily to a rapid fertility
decline since 1964.  The spatial distribution of the population has also changed
considerably in recent years. As a result of high rural-urban migration, the
share of the urban population has more than doubled, increasing from 31% in 1938
to over 66; currently. The four largesr cities (Bogota, Cali, Medellin and



-g -
Barranquilla), each with more than a million residents, now account for about a
half of the total urban population. The small (10,000-50,000) and
intermediate-size (50,000-500,000) cities account for about a quarter of the total
population.
28.       About 80X of Colombia's urban population has access to piped water
through house connections, and about 65X is served by a waterborne sewerage
system. In rural areas about 18Z of the population has access to piped water
through house connections and about 10X to a waterborne sewerage system.
Although, with these service levels, Colombia would compare favorably with most
middle-income countries in the Region, the quality of the service remains
deficient, particularly in poor urban neighborhoods and rural areas where water-
and sanitation-related diseases rank among the principal causes of illness and
death. Water pollution is rapidly becoming a major problem in most large cities
which discharge their sewage without treatment. In 1982, infant mortality, which
can be partially attributed to poor water quality and sanitation conditions, was
54 in 1,000 live births in Colombia, as compared with 27 in Chile, 39 in
Venezuela, 44 in Argentina and 53 in Mexico.
Sector Organization
29.       The water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia is under the         -
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Health (MSP) which, in coordination with
the National Planning Department (DNP), formulates national sectoral policies.
Two institutions, National Institute of Urban Development (INSFOPAL) and National
Institute of Health (INAS), are responsible for implementing these policies in
urban and rural areas, respectively. Both of these institutions have central
*planning and supervisory functions and act as financial intermediaries for
sectoral investments. The Urban Development Fund (FFDU) of the Central Mortgage
Bank also provides financing for investments in the urban sector. On the local
level, different types of institutions have responsibilities for constructing,
maintaining and operating water supply and sewerage service facilities.  In 28
principal cities, where about 75% of Colombia's urban population is concentrated,
Municipal Public Works Companies (EPH) are in charge of water and sewerage
services, and in many instances, also provide other public services. In most
smaller-towns, water supply and sanitation services are provided by Sanitation
Works Companies (iMPOS) over which INSFOPAL exerts considerable influence. In
rural areas, water and sanitation facilities are built, operated and maintained by
departmental offices of INAS in coordination with the beneficiary communities.
Sector Performance
30.       The performances of most sector institutions .on both the national and
local levels in Colombia leave much room for improvement. Weak administration and
management, and poor financial performance are the main reasons precluding a more
efficient functioning of many operating entities. The combined effect of low
tariff levels and poor commercial practices, contrasted with fast-rising operating
costs (including personnel costs), has been almost a perennial financial problem
for many companies. FrEquent and often politically-motivated changes in top- arnd
middle-management positions and shortages of funds hinder financial and investment
planning. These shortcomings, together with a general lack of sufficiently
trained work force, manifest themselves in poor upkeep and operation of many water
supply and sewerage systems and are reflected in generally high levels of
unaccounted-for water.



- 10 -
31.       In part these shortcomings are related to the less-than-satisfactory
performanct of INSFOPAL in the sector.  INSPOPAL's weak management has uili:atjd
against the technical and financial leadership role it was meant to play .n ! :.-
sector and has allowed deficiencies in performance of most local instituciL'is to
proliferate, eg.8  inadequate and frequently-changing managements, untrained -scare,
inefficient administrative and operational procedures, lack of clearly definedi
financial and lending policies, and heavy dependence on the Government cre.l ,,rr
for operating and investment funds. Secondly, the fact that the GovernmenL which,
through its Nationai Tariff Board (JNT), controls the utilities' tariff pULit eY,
was in the past reluctant to allow operating entities to increase their tarLxs
had been a major impediment to a suitable financial development of tthe sector.
Thirdly, the local municipal companies which have considerable autonomy in r';nnl:,ig
their administrative and financial affairs, have tended to underprice water sit-oly'
services, thereby weakening their financial position and making it difficult for
INSFOPAL to implement changes on the local level.   Combined, these shortrnmir-'s
have precluded any realistic sector investment planning in the past and are'
responsible for INSFOPAL's poor record in relating its project seleceLon .aL.:
finance functions to the objectives of promotion and enforcement of ;Jtund
financial and technical policies by operating entities.
32.       Under the circumstances, the Bank and Inter-American Developneut .;
(IDB) expressed their concerns to the Government in late 1983 regarding cl't s;.,.uu
of their respective projects in execution. The Government appointed a new manigur
at INSFOPAL, under whom INSFOPAL's administration has improved considerably, and
following the Government's authorization of a major increase in the tariffs, the
execution of an ongoing Bank-financed project (Loan 1726-CO) has gained mor.entam.
However, there still remain serious shortcomings in sectoral policy (extending
over the areas of investment planning, resource mobilization, portfolio
management, sector organization, financial and institutional development) which
are at the root of the present difficulties to bring about lasting improvement in
the sector. Changes in INSFOPAL's financial and credit policies are required for
the company to function as an effective intermediary for futule external loans for
medium-sized and small cities and towns.
Sector Policies and Finances
33.       The Government, under its plan for 'development with equity," aims
at providing adequate water and sanitation services to all its citizens.  -or
1990, it has projected service levels of 9OZ for water supply and 80X for
sewerage for urban areas, and service levels of 40Z for water supply and 357Z
for sewerage for rural areas. This would mean reaching an additional 5.5
million people in urban areas and about 2 million in rural areas. The total cnst
would be about US$1,700 million (1983 prices) and would call for annual
investments of about US$300 million, not including operation and maintenance costs
and investments needed to rehabilitate and repair existing facilities. To achieve
the 1990 goals, historic annual average sector investment levels would have to be
tripled, which is difficult considering the current weaknesses of the sector
institutions and prevailing budgetary constraints. The Government is aware of
these constraints. It expects increased assistance from external lending
institutions, for both the financing of the sector investments as well as .tdvice
on sectoral improvements, so that the essential requirements in the sector -.LlI be
met within the available resources.



- 11 -
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
34.       Since 1968, the Bank has made 10 loans, totalling US$251.9 million, for
water supply and sewerage development in Colombia. The Bank funds accounted for
about 702 of the external loan amounts made available to the sector. Seven loans,
US$184.8 million in total, were made to EPM's in Bogota, Cali, Palmira and
Cucuta. By far the largest borrower has been EAAB, to which the Bank has lent
US$132 million in three lending operations, which have contributed to a total
investment of about US$450 million and a significant strengthening of the entity.
Three Bank loans, for a total amount of US$67.1 million, were made to INSFOPAL for
relending to local companies in support of 36 subprojects in mediur-size and small
cities and towns. In addition, INSFOPAL was the channel used to finance water
J      supply components of the Bank-financed urban development projects.  Several small
rural water supply projects were supported through INAS, as part of integrated
agricultural development projects and nutrition improvement projects.
35.       Of the Bank-financed projects, the projects in Bogota have fared better
than others in the sector. EAAB, in particular, has become a relatively more
efficient institution than other companies receiving Bank financing (Cali, Palmira
and subborrowers under INSFOPAL loans). Although most of the projects involved
were physically completed after lengthy delays, institutional development goals
were only partially achieved and the companies' financial performances in most
cases have trot improved to a degree originally envisaged. Project completion
reports have been prepared for two projects,2/ and two others have undergone
performance audits.3/ The audit reports have been critical of the overestimates
of demand for water; delays in project execution which, in an inflationary
environment, resulted in cost overruns for most of the projects; and the
borrowers' failure to raise water rates and to limit the growth of operating costs
sufficiently to comply with financial performance targets.
36.       Lessons learned from the implementation of earlier Bank projects in
Colombia have been taken into account in preparation of subsequent projects.
Demand projections are now prepared with greater care, using more conservative
estimates of population growth and consumption as the basis for financial
projections. Adequate subsurface investigations are being required for tunnels
and mafjor structures to minimize delays and cost overruns after construction is in
in progress.   More realistic implementation schedules are being adopted, and
projects are presented to the Board only when the physical works are ready for
bidding. More detailed and specific plans of action are also part of projects
*      that have been considered lately.  Most importantly, the Bank has concluded that
multi-city lending is no longer feasible until either INSFOPAL can improve its
performance considerably or alternative intermediary arrangements are in place.
37.       The Bank's current strategy calls for continued lending on a selective
basis to the larger municipal companies which have demonstrated the will to
improve their standards of performance. The loan which the Bank made to Cucuta
(Loan No. 2470-CO) in 1984 was conceived as a part of this strategy, and the
2/ Loan 738-CO, Palaira Water Supply Project: Report No. 4589, June 1983;
Loan 1523-CO, Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project (report no. to
be assigned).
3/ Loan 536-CO, Bogota Water Supply Project; Report No. 2003, March 1978;
Loan PU-30-CO, Cali Water Supply Project: Report No. 2638, August 1978.



- 12 -
proposed loan to Bogota would fall in the same catgory. Barranquilla and
Cartagena, where project preparation work is now in progress, also may benefit
from direct Bank lending. The IDB is involvad in lending to two of Colombia's
major cities (Medellin and Bucaramanga) and may consider landing to Cali. Direct
lending to suitable municipal companies in major cities enables tha Bank to assist
the Government in its efforts to extand improved  ater supply and sawerage
services to large segments of the population (including the urban poor) at minimum
unit cost and will have to continue.
38.       The Bank's resumption of lending for medium-size and small cities
and towns will depend on progress in the implementation of improved sector
policies and the availability of a suitable intermediary for multi-city lend-
ing which would also implement natlonal programs for sectoral improvements
(in areas such as leak detection, training, institutional development, and
metering). In spite of recent improvements in INSFOPAL's performance, it still
does not have the capacity to take on these intermediary functions. Ongoing
sector work is addressing these issues and specific Bank recomiendations on these
and related matters are expected to be discussed with the Government in the near
future.
39.       A rural water supply component (total cost US$16 million), which forms
part of the recently appraised Health Project, would provide the Bank with the
opportunity to support a modest investment program for rural water supply systems
and strengthen INAS, the specialized agency for most RN crural areas, through a
technical assistance program and the preparation of a National Rural Water Supply
Plan. This plan is expected to define more accurately the needs and priorities in
the rural subsector and develop an investment strategy, which together with the
experience acquired in working with INAS, could help in paving the way for
increased investments in rural water supply, to be supported by the Bank and other
lenders in the future.
MART IV - TEE PROJECT
The Project Origin
40.       In 1981, sections of southrest Bogota began experiencing water shortages
caused by inadequate distribution system capacity. EAAB asked the Bank to
reallocate funds under an ongoing Bank project (Loan No. 1697-CO) to help finance
preparation of a master plan for improved water distribution on a
'least-cost-solution basis. This plan is the basis for the proposed project. An
emergency water storage reservoir for a water treatment plant was added to it,
after a failure in January 1984 of a water supply tunnel confirmed that a storage
facility would be required to allow periodic inspection and maintenance of the
tunnel. Finally, technical assistance was included for institutional
strengthening of EAAB, and for implementation planning of a Rio Bogota Pollution
and Flood Control scheme.
41.       The proposed project was appraised in July 1984 and negotiations took
place in Washingtou with the Colombian delegation headed by Dr. Eduardo Robayo,
General Manager of the EAAB. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5278-CO of February
28, 1985) is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Supplemn-tary project data are shown in Annex III.



- 13 -
The Borrower/Implementing Agency
42.       The proposed project would be implemented by EAAB which would also be
the borrower. EAAB is an autonomous municipal agency responsible for providing
water, sewerage and drainage services to Bogota. EAMB is governed by a
seven-member Board which includes the Mayor for Bogota, who chairs the Board, two
representatives of the Bogota District Council, three representatives of local
creditor banks (including the National Mortgage Bank) and a representative of the
Bank of the Republic (Colombia's central bank). The Board approves EAAB's
organization, annual budgets, tariff, proposed contracting of debt, investment
programs and contract awards. Contracting of debt and investment projects are
subject to review by the Bogota District Council which also supervises EAAB's
operations through the Municipal Controllership. Tariffs are subject to approval
by the National Tariff Board. The Mayor appoints the General Manager who, in
turn, appoints all EAAB employees. EAAB has some 2,600 employees who are, in
general, adequately qualified at all levels. With the aid of three previous
Bank-assisted projects (paras. 45 and 46), EAAB has developed the capacity to
carry out large projects like to the one proposed.
43.       Whereas EAAB has achieved proficiency in system operations and project
execution, it remains weak in information management, training and control of
unaccounted-for water. Also, personnel costs are increasing faster than can be
justified by increased water sales and inflation. To achieve improvements in
these areas, a detailed plan of action (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(e)) has
been agreed upon with EAAB. The plan objectives are to: (i) control the increase
in personnel costs; (ii) reduce unaccounted-for water; (iii) introduce simplified
procedures and new technology in the conduct of commercial operations to improve
efficiency and to reduce costs; (iv) reorient training activity to highest
priority needs and goals; and (v) improve management information and control
systems for increased efficiency. EAAB's progress in implementing the plan of
action will be closely monitored by the following indicators: (i) employees per
1,000 connections; (ii) personnel costs per m3 of water sold; (iii) percentage of
unaccounted-for water in total production; (iv) percentage of working meters; tv)
collection of accounts receivable; and (vi) amount of water sold per account.
Previous Bank Lending to EAAB
44.       The first Bank loan to EAAB (Loan 536-CO of 1968) financed expansion of
the Tibito water supply and transmission system.  The project was successfully
completed in 1976. The second operation (Loan No. 741-CO of 1971), the
construction of the Chingaza water supply diversion (a dam, a reservoir, 38 km of
tunnel and 6 km of pipe), a water treatment plant, a treated water storage
reservoir, a 20 km treated water transmission main and 100 km of primary
distribution mains. EAAB faced serious problems during the implementation of this
project. The contractor originally selected for the task was unable to comply
with the requirements of his contract and had to be replaced. The second
contractor encountered high concentrations of methane gas during excavation of the
tunnel. The gas created unsafe construction conditions which led to a two-year
suspension of the work while a solution to the problem was found and implemented.
This problem, and the resulting delays, increased the cost of the Chingaza
diversion from US$85 million at appraisal to about US$300 million. At the same
time, EAAB's water sales and revenues turned out to be substantially less than the
appraisal estimates, as a result of an unexpected decline in the growth rate of
Bogota's population. To cope with the reduced revenues and the large cost



- 14 -
overruns of the Chingaza diversion, EAAB first delayed implementation and later
eliminated the 20 km treated water transmission main and half the length of
primary distribucion main in the project.  A 1975 study undertaken by EAA'  i i 
indicated that these components could safely be delayed until 1985. The mad.Lii..d
project was completed in 1983.
45.       The third Bank loan to EAAB (Loan 1697-CO of in 1979) helped t. to LX,:
water, sewerage and drainage networks, drainage canals and sewerage iiatercCp ..:s.
In 1981, water shortages began occurring in the southwest areas of Bogota, fLur
years earlier than indicated in-the 1975 study. These unexpected shortages
confirmed the need for a major transmission main previously included in the second
Bank project. EAAB and the Bank agreed that a new master plan was needed befoce a
transmission main was constructed.  Accordingly, the project was modified eari  in
1983, to make funds available for preparation of such a master plan, concentrating
in the meantime on the construction of secondary networks which were r lt .1 r    - 
on the master plan but still had a high priority. It was also decided to d(e'ere
from the project the construction of 25-km of primary water distribution i'.±ns.
The execution of the project, as modified, is now proceeding well.  i/.J oft r  t,
31, 1984, the loan was fully commited and 90Z of it was disbursed.  Projecr
completion is currently scheduled for June 30, 1985.
46.       Under previous Bank projects, EAMB has developed sufficient watet
production capacity for Bogota until 2005, but left the expansion of rhe
distribution system ta proceed in later years, as the growth in demand 3Ju::i-i Al
it.  To eliminate the existing bottlenecks of its distribution system, EAAi ia3
now to build some water transmission and distribution mains previously eljmi.:o d
from the second and third projects under the clrcumstances described above.
The new project would include:
(a) 9 km of rock tunnel;
(b) 24 km of large-diameter transmission main; and
(c) 19 km of medium-diameter primary distribution main.
A large part of the capacity represented by these additions was included 1.n the
previous Bank projects (Loans No. 741 and 1697-CO). The estimated cost of che
previously planned additions would be equivalent to about 30Z of the tocal ccs:s
of the new project.
47.       As was described in paras. 45 and 46, the conditions which necessizated
these components being eliminated from the prior projects were beyond the
Government's and EAAB's control, particularly the difficult geological for=ati;n
and the poor performance by a contractor, and could not be foreseen by them.    _n
addition, their el4mination was justified by the fact that projected demand did
not materialize. In compLiance with its comuitments under the Bank loans (:No.
741-CO and 1697-CO), EAAB has controlled the increase in its costs and ha; raised
its tariffs about 50Z in real terms, to be able to finance around 35% of its
1971-84 investment program through internal cash generation. The increased cosrs
of the transmission and distribution investments were beyond the limits which EAAB
could raise from its resources, or from external sources, given the lack of
receptivity in the international capital markets. The EAAB's decision at thac
time to drop these components was, therefore, fully justified under the
circumstances, and was taken in consultation with the Bank. The Chingaza



- 15 -
diversion, the treatment plant and the reservoir, financed under the Bank's second
EAAB loan, still represent the least-cost solution for meeting Bogota's future
water needs at this time. The cost of production of the Chingaza water is about
one third of the cost of water from EAAB's next largest source (Tibito), due to
the fact that the Chingaza water is of better quality and does not require
pumping.
Project Objectives and the Bank's Role
48.       The main objective of the proposed project would be to provide the
water supply and sewerage infrastructure essential for the uninterrupted
growth of Bogota. The project would accomplish this objective by:
a)   removing EAAB's distribution system constraints which now prevent the
most efficient use of the existing production capacity and cause water
shortages in the southwest (mostly low-income) areas of Bogota;
b)   increasing the reliability of water supply to Bogota through the
construction of an untreated water storage reservoir; and
c)   improving EAAB's productivity and increasing its operational eff.ciency
through technical assistance.
49.       The project would be in line with the Bank's general approach
related to infrastructure lending in Colombia, which emphasizes quick-yielding
investments and a more intensive use of existing facilities before addition of new
capacity. These objectives would be achieved by making use of EAAB's heavy
infrastructure investments made in the past, especially under the Bank's second
EAAB project (Loan No. 741-CO). The project would help poorer segments of the
population (para. 69). Through its involvement with the project, the Bank would
provide continued institutional support to EAAB. It would support sound financial
policies by EAAB, including maintenance of adequate tariffs. The Bank would also
help the Bogota District, through EAAB, to effectively address a major urban
environmental issue by undertaking studies on the financial, economic, legal,
institutional and reclamation aspects of the Bogota River flood and pollution
control plan. Until these problems are solved, the plan cannot be implemented.
Finally, the Bank would assist EAAB in securing additional external financing for
the proposed project.
Project Description
50.       The project would include the following components:
(a) water transmission and distribution improvements, consisting of
construction of an 9 km rock tunnel, 43 km of transmission and primary
water distribution mains, 6 booster pumping stations and 5 storage tanks;
(b) water distribution system rehabilitation, consisting of replacement of
water distribution mains in poor physical condition, repair of water main
breaks and leaks and repair of a major transmission main from Bogota's
second largest treatment plant;
(c) expansion of secondary water, sewerage and drainage networks in
low-income neighborhoods, including installation of 100,000 new
connections and 260,000 non-functioning meters;



- 16 -
(d) for untreated rw wacer storage, construction of the 50 million m3 San
Rafael reservoir with a pumping station, to supply water to the Wiesner
water treatment plant to allow for temporary shutdown of the Chingaza
tunnel for inspection and maintenance;
(e) Implementation planning for the Bogota River pollution and flood control
project, including iinal design of a pollution control plant; and
(f) institutional improvement of EAAB, consisting of technical assistance,
training, scholarships and procurement of equipment.
51.       While EAAB has attained fairly high standards in its overall
performance, there still exist areas where improvemat is required and a detailed
plan of action has been agreed with EAAB towards this end (para. 44). Under this
plan, EAAB will progressively reduce the number of its employees per 1,000 water
connections from 4.9 during the project appriisal to 4.5 by 1990. Tn 1983, EAAM's
unaccounted-for water was high, at 40S of the total production. Through a
comprehensive meter-testing and maintenance effort, this ratio will be
progressively reduced to 26Z by 1990 (a target which water utilities in Latin
America are generally striving to attain). To increase the effectiveness of
EAAB's commercial operations and to reduce the costs, the existing EAAB procedures
for new connections, billing and meter reading will be improved and simplified.
Costs will be reduced by utilizing new technology in data processing. For EAAB's
considerable training activity, which also benefits some other water utilities in
Colombia; training needs will be identified, priorities determined and a system
for evaluating results will be made an integral part of the training effort.
EAAB's management information and control systems will be improved for increased
efficiency.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The project cost, excluding interest during construction is estimated at
about US$316 million. Interest during construction is estimated at USS38 million
bringing the total financing required to about USS354 million. The foreign
exchange cost, including Interest on the Bank loan and on suppliers' credits
during the project implementation period, would amount to about US$216 million
(612 of the total financing required). EAAB is exempt from most import duties,
but has to pay a value-added tax on locally manufactured goods, a sales tax on
imported goods and a special tax on foreign consultants' fees. These taxes have
been included in the project's local cost component.  Consulting services would             a
cost USS5.6 million for technical assistance and US$15.3 million for supervision
of construction. Physical contingencies would amount to about 8Z of the project
base cost and price contingencies to about 31Z.
53.       The Bank loan of US$129 million would have a 17-year term, including 5
years of grace, and finance 60Z of the estimated foreign exchange requirements.
Of the remainder, about US$42 million would be financed through suppliers credits,
and about US$8 million from coiercial bank loans (for the down payments required
on goods purchased with suppliers' credits). EAAB would finance the remaining
US$37 million of the foreign exchmage requirements out of its internal cash
generation (corresponding to interest charges on the 3ank loan and on the
suppliers' credits)  EAAB would also finance from its internal cash generation
and ustomers/dav.loperu' contributions, US$117 million in local costs, leaving
about US$20 million which the Bogota power company would contribute towards the



- 17 -
local cost of the San Rafael reservoir.
54.       It is planned that the proposed suppliers' credits and associated
commercial bank loans would finance pumping equipment, large diameter pipes and
pipe accessories for the project. For equipment which may cost about US$29
million, EAAB will invite bids early in 1985. Suppliers credit agencies in the
US, Germany, Japan, Canada, Austria and France have indicated to the Bank interest
in providing the necessary credits, although the availability of these credits can
be assured only after successful bids for such equipmen: from interested suppliers
are received. Although market conditions are quite competitive for the types of
equipment involved, the EAAB expressed concern during negotiations about the
prospects of obtaining co-financing in a timely manner for the procurement of high
priority pipes. The Bank therefore agreed to provide for a contingency for Bank
financing of this item under the procedure outlined in para. 59 in the event that
suitable financing cannot be obtained. If financing is obtained the Bank's loan
proceeds would be reallocated to other items. The remaining equipment, costing
about US$21 million, will not be required before 1989 and EAAB will defer
procurement action on them. EAAB has assured the Bank that it would take all
necessary actions to secure the necess--y suppliers credits and loans when they
are needed (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Proposed San
Rafael reservoir would have water supply and power generation benefits and EAAMB
and EEEB will have to share its costs of construction. The Bank would not
disburse the loan funds on account of the reservoir until EAAB and EEEB have
signed a cost-sharing agreement satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4, Schedule 1 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Execution of the Project
55.       EAAB would be responsible for implementing the project.  An
engineer in EAAB's Planning Department has been assigned as overall Project
Manager and will have the responsibility for coordinating the project works
and for EAAB's dealings with the Bank.
56.       Final designs for the major construction components are being prepared
by consultants, satisfactory to the Bank. Secondary network designs and
specifications for purchase of equipment would be prepared by EAAB's own staff.
Consultants would be used to supervise construction of major works such as the
tunnel, the larger primary distribution mains, the pumping stations and the San
Rafael reservoir.  The Bogota River implementation planning study would be carried
out by EAAB in collaboration with the Regional Bogota Plains Autonomous
Corporation (CAR), a regional planning agency, and the Bogota District Planning
Department. A coordinating committee of these agencies, established to carry out
the technical studies financed under the Bank's third EAAB project (Loan No.
1697-CO), would be active in conduct of the new study, with EAAB remaining as the
lead agency and the coordinator of the works to be carried out by the three
agencies concerned (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (f)).
57.       The San Rafael reservoir would include the construction of dikes which
exceed the minimum requirements set by the Bank for requiring a design review
board. To ensure that the dam is properly designed and constructed, EAAB has
agreed to retain a panel of experts to meet on a regular basis during its design
and construction phases to review work progress and to schedule periodic
inspections of the dikes during the reservoir's operations (Section 3.01 (c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Procurement
58.       Civil works contracts larger than USS1 million and goods contracts
larger than US$200,000 financed in part with the Bank loan funds would be
procured through international competitive bidding (Schedule 4 of the Draft Loan
Agreement). Local competitive bidding would apply for material and equipment
purchases below these limits, except for the installation of secondary networks
and repair work which would be carried out by work orders awarded to prequalifled
contractors at unit prices net by EAAB (A similar procedure was used
successfully under the ank Loan No. 1697-CO). The maximum value of a work order
would be US$40,000. For procurement of pipes, pumping equipment and heavy
construction equipment for the project, financed with suppliers' credits and
associated comcsrcial bank loans, EMAB would contact suppliers who could provide
financing. Large- and medium- diameter pipes for the project would be bid
following Bank ICB guidelines but inviting optional submission of financing
offers. If in consultation with the Bank it is determined that there are no
suitable financing offers, the Bank loan proceeds would be released to cover
procurement to be awarded to the lowest cash evaluated bid. All consulting
contracts would be awarded Ln accordance with the Bank guidelines. The limits set
for prior review of bidding documents by the Bank (US$500,000 for equipment
contracts and USS2 million for civil works contracts) are likely to result in a
coverage of about 902 of the total estimated value of the goods contracts and 802
of the civil works contracts.
59.       Contracts for pipes,. equipmant and materials, with an estimated
total value of US$93 million (including those to be financed under suppliers'
credits), are expected to go to foreign manufacturers. Contracts for
small-diameter pipes, tubing, small fittings and meters are more likely to be
won by local manufacturers. Qualified local manufacturers would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15Z of the CIF price or the prevailing import
duty, whichever is lower. The tunnel contract (with an estimated value of
US$41 million) may be won by a foreign civil works contractor. The remaining
civil works contracts (with a total estimated value of USS125 million) could
go to local contractors. Most of the consulting contracts are expected to go
to local firms which could then either set up joint ventures with foreign firms or
subcontract for expertise which is not available locally.
Disbursements
60.       The Bank loan would be disbursed: 
(a) against 1002 of foreign expenditures and 70X of local expenditures
for materials and equipment required for distribution system
rehabilitation, secondary water, sewerage and drainage networks and
service connections, and institutional improvemnts of SAAB;
(b)  32 percent of expenditures for civil works except for the tunnal which
would be against 65 percent of expenditures;
(c)  100Z of foreign expenditures and 502 of local expenditures for con-
sultants' services; and
(d)  1002 of expenditures for scholarships and staff training required
for institutional improvement of EAAB.



- 19 -
61.       Disbursements would be supported by standard documentation.
Reimbursements through statements of expenditure would be allowed for all local.
expenditures disbursements. This procedure is justifiable on the grounds of the
Bank's satisfactory disbursement experience with EAAB in the past. The
disbursement period would be eight years and the loan closing date would be June
30, 1993. A provision would be made for retroactive financing of project
expenditures up to US$3.0 million equivalent incurred after July 1, 1984. A
Special Account would be opened at Banco de la Republica and an initial deposit of
up to US$8.0 million would be made into it.  EAAB would be entitled to make
withdrawals from the account upon application to Banco de la Republica. At the
same time, it would forward its withdrawal applications covering the amount of the
withdrawal to the Bank which would replenish the Special Account (Section 2.02 (b)
and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Audit
62.       EAAB's financial statements and the Special Account would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The auditors' report would be sent
to the Bank no later than four months after the close of each fiscal year (Section
5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
EAAB's Financial Performance and Prospects
63.       Due to cost overruns in its sizeable 1971-83 investment progrem (mainly
under Bank Loan No. 741-CO, para. 45), EAAB was short of working capital during
1982 and 1983. Through a 27Z tariff increase in July 1983, followed by 1.5%
monthly increases which are authorized to continue indefinitely, and USS20 million
in medium-term loans which it obtained in early 1984 from foreign commercial
lenders, EAAB achieved a balanced cash flow in 1984.  Its rate of return on
revalued fixed assets, estimated at about 4% for 1984, would be lower than the
rate of about 6Z attained during 1981-83. This reduced rate reflects the
incorporation in EAAB's asset base, from mid-1984 onwards, of the major Chingaza
diversion. Mainly as a result of this, the estimated rate of return in 1985 is
likely to be somewhat below the 1984 level, to recover gradually in subsequent
years. However, the lower rates of return are in line with EAAB's current
long-term expansion requirements and are adequate.
64.       Because the assumptions concerning population growth and water
consumption per connection in Bogota are now lower than projected under previous
&      Bank loans, and because EAAB has enough water production capacity until the year
2005, EAAB's investment requirements are now lower than those projected in the
past. As a result, covenanted rates of return on EAAB's revalued fixed assets for
the project execution period, 3.5% in 1985 and 1986, 4% in 1987 and 4.5% in 1988
and thereafter (Section 5.04 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement), are considered
appropriate for the new project, as compared to the 6X covenanted rate of return
under the Bank's third EAAB project (Loan No. 1697-CO). With these rates, EAAB
will be able to finance 54X of its 1985-92 investment program of about US$587
million (the proposed project would account for about 60X of the total investment;
the remainder would include water and sewerage infrastructure for the Ciudad
Bolivar project financed by the IDB and miscellaneous sewerage interception and
drainage works financed mainly by EAAB). To achieve these rates of return, EAAB
will need to gradually increase tariffs by 15X in real terms during the 1985-89
period.



- 20 -
65.       EMB  has agreed that it would not, without the Bank' a concurrencen, incur
any longtorm debt that would reoult in UM'o estimated net revenue during any
fiscal year falling balm 1.5 tims of its estimatad debt service requiremants
(Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).   1MB has aloo agreed that it would
present betore October 31 of each fiscal yoar 1AB'a five ybear investment plan and
financial projections (Section 5.05 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  1AB would
not without the lank's agreement comeit or incur capital expenditurs which are
not economically and financially justilied, not part of its inv.stmsnt plan (other
than investmnts of lose than $3 million equivalent) and not supported by
financing appropriate to the project and company (Section 5.05 (b) of the draft
Loan Agrenment).
66.       On the basis of its latest financial projections, EAAB would review
with the Bank before October 31 each year its compliance with the Bank Loan
Agreement's rate of return covenant (para. 65), and take any necessary
measures, including adjustment in tariffs, to maintain its compliance
(Section 5.04 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). EAMB would conduct similar reviews following any event that would
cause its total operating costs to increase at a rate 'n excess of the increase in
the consumer price index for a corresponding period (Section 5.04 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
67.       While adequate tariffs and control of investments, debt, and salary
increases will be the key to the protection of EAAB's financial plan, there
is also need for action to increase EAAB's operacional efficiency. Technical
assistance under the proposed project would contribute to raising of EAAB's
productivity, bringing about cost savings and meeting the target of the
productivity increasies envisaged the plan of action.
Social and Economic Analysis
68.       About 2.1 million people would benefit from the increased and
improved water supply services under the project* Of these, about 1.0
million would be newly-comnected to the water distribution network, and about 1.1
million would have uninterrupted supply (without low water pressures and
rationing). The project would provide sewerage services to about 0.7 million
people. Altogether, some 60Z of the project costs would account for services to
the poor. About 552 of the water supply beneficiaries and about 297 of the
sewerage beneficiaries would be urban poor, living on an annual income of less
than US$350 equivalent per person.  The cost of service would be 0.4Z of income
for a family which already has a service connection, and 4X for a family that
takes advantage of EAAB financing to pay for a new service connection provided
under the project.
69.       Using estimated revenues as a proxy for economic benefits (based on
tariffs required to meet the covenanted rates of return, ref. para. 65),
economic rates of return are calculated for the project's water supply
component, the sewerage component, and for these two components combined.
Shadow pricing is applied for the 'unskilled labor' parts of construction and
operating costs. The results show rates of return of 12Z, 23Z and 13Z for
water supply, sewerage and combined water supply/sewerage components,
respectively. The San Rafael reservoir by itself has a rate of return of 10
percent. The calculations do not include the consumer surplus, health benefits or



- 21 -
the cost of existing water production capacity constructed under previous Bank
lending (Loan No. 741-CO). When costs of these production facilities are
included, the estimated rate of return (including net benefits derived from
associated power generation) would be lower, at about 8%, mainly because of high
costs of construction of the Chingaza diversion (para. 45). However, these
production facilities still represent the least cost solution for meeting Bogota's
water needs (para. 46).
Risks
70.       Lessons learned from the construction of the Chingaza tunnel have been
taken into account in the preparation of the proposed project. The construction
conditions for the new tunnel are more favorable than in the case of the Chingaza
tunnel. Due to its shorter length, more favorable geological condition of the
site, and its proximity to Bogota, the new tunnel will be a much simpler
undertaking than the Chingaza tunnel. The cost estimates, which are based on a
detailed geological investigation of the tunnel site, include adequate
contingencies. The risk that problems similar to those experienced with the
Chingaza tunnel will be repeated is, therefore, minimal. Because the project
would include a large number of contracts, and because some supplier' credits and
commercial bank loans for purchase of equipment are still to be secured, there is
some risk of delay in project execution due to procurement delays. The contingent
financing by the Bank of high priority pipes would help to mitigate this risk. In
addition, EAAB could fill any gap through a combination of borrowing from local
and foreign banks, moderately higher tariffs and some realignment of investment
priorities. While no shortfalls of revenues are expected on account of lower than
projected water sales (population and revenue assumptions are conservative),
shortfalls could occur as a result of EAAB's inability to increase tariffs in a
timely manner. Also, EAAB's ability to contain its operating cost increases,
particularly those of personnel, presents some risk. However, EAAB is an
experienced borrower with good project implementation capabilities and these risks
are not substantial.
Environmental and Health Aspects
71.       By increasing water supply to the Bogota District, the project would
increase sewage flows discharged into the Bogota River which is already heavily
polluted. Although no immediate improvement in the quality of the Bogota River
water will result from the project, the ultimate implementation of works designed
to reduce pollution and to improve water quality of the river in the future would
be brought closer to realization as a result of technical assistance component
included in the project. With the project, low pressure in the distribution
system and intermittent water supply that create unsafe conditions for the
distribution of water for domestic use would be overcome. In addtion, the
provision of sewerage networks under the project, by removing sewage from densely
populated areas, would improve health conditions.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EAAB, the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
There are no special conditions of loan effectivenes.
74.       I am satisfLed that the proposed loan would comp3y wLth the Articlem of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
75.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 14, 1985
*1



-23 -                                                          ANNEX I
T A A L I  3A                                      Page  1  of  5
COLIUMIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMRIA                               RRRREICI GROUPS (WLIGNTRD AVUEACE) f
MIT                   (MST  ECENT ESTIMATE) lb
CRCNT          MIDILE INCOME            MIDDLE INcME
igbDLb      meLb-    zgESTtIATELb     LAT. AMERICA 4 CAR             rulLqr
AUA (TNOUD sq. 1)
TOTAL                                1133.1      1138.9       1135.9
AGREICULTURAL                        350.1        350.1        320.5
GNP MR CPITA (CU)                        270.0       440.0       1460.0            2106.6                      2345.3
slm? CONSUPTIOU MR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OV OIL P!U1VALEIT)        355.0        495.0       690.0              995.5                     1122.8
POPULATION AIn VITAL UTATI1TICS
POPULATIuN*HIl-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    15754.0      21266.0     26965.0
URIAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)         48.2         59.8        64.9               46.5                       46.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PUPULAUTION IN YeAR 2000 (HILL)                              37.5
STATIONARY POPULArION (HILL)                                 61.7
POPULATION MOMENTM                                             L.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER si. K.                          13.5         18.7        23.2               35.7                       82.9
PeR Sq. KM. AGRI. LAND              45.0         ba.7        82.4               92.4                      158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           46.6         46.2        36.2               39.9                       31.6
15-64 YRS                           50.3         51.1        60.3               56.0                       61.1
65 AND ABOVE                          2.9         2.6          3.4               4.1                        7.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (E)
TOTAL                                 3.1         3.0         2.0                2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                5.7          5.2         2.7                3.6                        3.7
CRUDE bIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           47.2        33.8        28.9               31.3                       23.4
CROUC. DEATH RATE (PER TOOUS)         17.4          9.7         7.4                8.1                        I.E
GROSS REPRODUCTION kATE                 3.3         2.3          1.8               2.0                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..       115.4       192.8
USERS (2 or MARRIED aOMEN)             .           ..        49.0               40.3
PoD AM   EITIIo
SNDEX OP FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-7n-u0)                         100.0         99.0       124.0              114.3                      114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I UF REQOUIEMENTS)        98.0         57.0        106.0             110.6                      128.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)            54.0         46.0        55.0               b7.3                       69.7
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        Z.0          24.0        25.0 /c            34.1                       34.5
CHILD (ACES I-4) DEATH RATE           51.2          6.0         4.0                5.7                        5.2
F ALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         53.1         58.9        63.7               64.7                       67.4
INFANT PRRT. RATE (PER T1OUS)         93.4         70.6        53.9               60.6                       54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                               30.0 /e      a.0         64.0 Id            65.4
URBAN                               54.9W '; ;.e             73.0 7-d           78.1
RURAL                                6.3 7.      28.0        46.0 7i            46.2
ACCESS TO LICRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         7 o         4.4 &/d           52.9
URBAN                                  ..        7to         60.07i             67.0
RURAL                                  -          8.0        14.07iw            24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2640.0       2330.0      1710.0 /f          1911.7                     1065.8
POP. pER NlqRSING PERSON            4220.0        730.0       Ioo.o 7            515.8                      764.4
POP. PEP HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              360.0        450.0        580.0 If          367.2                      32b.3
URBAN                                  ..       380.0       490.0 7W           411.5                      201.5
RURAL                                    *-                                   2636.3
0HISSIONS PEt HOSPITAL BED              ..         22.9        29.8 /c            27.3                       20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..         5.7 /h
URA                                    ..         5.5 7        ..
RURAL                                 ..          5.9 Tb        .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOW
TOTAL                                  ..         1.6 /b.
URBAN                                 ..          I.b7         .
RURAL                                 ..          2.4 7W
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               47.0 /e      58.1 /h
URBAN                               S3.0 W       87.5 7F
RURAL                                s.07W W     13.2 7



-24-                                                       AN  I
Pae 2 of 5
CaLlXUl ~         .1on    Ml                     (WIM          USA-)
11201%,  mt     cumin M ONK  n t     "     On
IlU         97A       PeA=U          LAT. AMIsCA  U CUROPI
AD05D IKROLUIIUT ASSOE
IAVUM    TM                         77.0       1.so0       2SO.0            10.4                      1ol.1
MAU                      77.0       107.0       La2.0             106.2                     L5es.
73NALR                   77.0       110.0       132.0             104.5                      96.7
5UW034U5  TOTAL                     12.0        21.0        46.0              43.2                      53.1
KALB                     12.0        25.0        43.0              42.3                      Us,
nIUML                    L1.0        24.0        51.0              44.5                      50.6
VOC!OIIAL (I 0   3t0M!)               20.1 j      20.2         1. J             33.6                      21.6
11ART!                              35.0        25.0        31.0              30.1                      25.1
0U013T                              11.0        17.0        21.0              16.5                      20.5
ATULT LZIZACT PATE CS)                62.5        50.6        81.0              79.2                      75.0
PASS==U CAMS/?ROUBAMD p0p              2.7        11.2        i5. ~40                                     541.7
3" 10CIVIRSIDONAND la                125.1       1L04.2      116.              225.6                     164.5
TV BSCUIU/S110UID 1o0                  9.53       3.1         56.3             101.2                     123.1
KUAIU ("DAILY h3U.
2I3TRART") CZKU:IATZOE
Piz TSMAND   OULATO                 50.0       106.7        50.2 A            62.5                      36.3
013N1 ANIIIA A!T3NDAIICAPIZA            ...                     .~2.6                                      2.l
b0IA.L  1   MU03 (TR005)            4727.0      6325.0       190.0*
n%mm  (13sK)                        19.1        240.        14.7              12.2                      34.5
AOIZOULTU3  (1110)                  51.4        27.0        25.6              31.5                      40.7
ZuDUSTlI (13331)                    l9.2        21.0        21.2              22.9                      22.2
1AUTZSCPATAON UTZ (133CUT)
TOTAL                              *30-0        2-9         3 .1              32.2                      429
VALK                                44.6        45.1        51.2              49.3                      54.7
ramAL.3                             11.5        14.5         M6.6             13.2                      31.0
IC030NZC DIflDUCT UTIO                 1.7         1.6         1.2               1.4                       0.9
FI303K? OF P1ZVATZ  303
R-CZwnD n
120135   30 or    UIoLNI            417.2  ILa  21.9 A        ..*-
s301 2m 201 1 01253 30.. 6          67.7         0.
LOS! 20201 rOUROS                    2.1         2.5          .
LOIS? 4010F OUrIIOUL                 l.l        10. L.
UT13IA! AUMOLT POVUET! MONS
IVXL (CUSS^  3  CAITA)
03U1l                                 ..          ..       214.0 /c          288.2
J10311                                ..          ..       197.0;            18 L.0
EST D  snT  IV OVIT! 13 s19
LEVIL (UU P35 C5ZTh'
U1                                                         267.0 is          522.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       122.0  c          372.4
ESTIMATED POP. JLOU ASSLU
P0VERTY IPCOI LEVEL (t)
1Ulm                                                        34.0 /c
RDL                                   ....
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABL
NO T ES3
/a  The group averqe for *eh indicator are ppulationwaighted aritbeetic  me. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is ot uniform.
lb  Dales  otherviem  notad. Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 sd  19611 'Data for 1970   etweae 1969 an.~
1971; ad data for -Met Recent Zutlate" betwoe  1980 nd 1962.
/c  19773 Id 1976; / 15"; /f 1978s LL 1962; lb 1973s A 1979; L  Including teacebr training at the third 1-eN1;
I Zeaoically active poplation.
JUNE, 1964



- 25-ANNEXl
Page 3 of 5
1eeeisbs   .1 Sb t l.a 5  sifldSMdlsSlaa                  spetd   hi dili, ftese sails is ssilais  lb. defls. lbw deeis.. saiebelsmem. -sc  Is
isessb. flhlsr eqi . ISBn. is11-d. ald aisessasso  g.s.. msE)Es diliesses  bk-- "Malns.
lb  ales.... aswee sam III Elb  aom  -asss       W spee  sae s1b1ses  -etas  ad (2II s sss. S-   5mb% sal  blabs enoft  lis   stlb. --uv use-  .6  a"
sehi1s flamIp  (--ssf  55. 'NO  issa  MI mupefsS"."la  thise iNdiiV  lmease Wish l1IstS W   ISs is 5b  ebessk-   bes.-  ci ssss, nai-sst.si
sfISEl1sS1s). I. Sb ILF- iessaissem dole Sb sinusd - psslsla WslEb *sitblemaas -a sesl islets.1 emd elm eels - 21 till c lb. assil i.e
1s.pb   ds  Is,  MhlSlss.  ss   bms              . c    vsi-  -se- o, -IFMiss.1 is . - am"alb.ewlsIiSs  siassoi usegni           ad                   M"*e.s  s   h w
sas'    .sc. eEmsu   95 eess   .....l.  as.                              sssl  sss  saesliSbsl   iasIise 1-   5  ithe W ss me lbm   asey
lthseesd sq.b.l                                               ZI~~~~~Ej49LUL.q5f5*p - P.9.I15511:-  dislds PS asssciIsesl
Tess asa.  ise  eqisiqin. iss.54-sm    esss im5 .                                             ieee- Fdias sIts-'1.1 5 eled m eisslt 555.1   -
'141              -.551 IllSdom I d e e. c s      it.rits g     pug.    s b s. Semeli                      N.     lsseiadeid  sas,  5p-s s
ltdefliict L-G dos.s.  sIeeeisc   5.se   seIip-psat ssisisl   ne.sss   auslss                                                                  p.sis  sEis 
I46i~ peetss..  sslc  sM  biss.. ~essa e 5. u  islses IlS.          eisi M  cellisiss. 1   1-r     'M1.      F          Jb-l.   om
flW11ftAiflh NW P. psi 1eiS               M ess .   ase   ashes pele-e                 eclem.bis is P511115 oed psit"sAtl mssss  eMssiele  bsplS.i oeM
6iliililaws    eae.si  ashb-~   ild4 see11 iss I ilfls   beisla                     sebbi sissi. suese .  tsSSlse   sleb1lsemels pssasme-s Sy e1lis
IlNS. Vie. eMsll idses,                                                                   by a  Insso as phnislsis. bhtellshlsbmeess pslvdlss psisespeily  eselMiel
ele  ea a   isesd. hs.  he5  n.tie.fhasI... 4i.mei.ili a
_____________________           sI sis.  -meop I-e .6  issiaii  s55a pas =w sisils his -phpeis    (be2 hiSesie
psI isles.. qeSsysi 4.. eM bydis-. seeless  asiness * seas. slissis. sss.i aBel sissy IS-psilses ese.....slee eM
a                         .5 eseibsai sleessilessyl  Se 1t51eui    si cli -esi-sies  P., epsfie  low.                p-eeds I 1.Itedm V tefs sweiss)l isitel-Se
59105     isas.d 0Il.                                                                   MJIiL           IelL t-  ..    i               ci  du1sa  t. -  iALihns-
Jdisies.-mssslssaWs                  W ....   01- sIe,sssshll  dii.                      oed IbIs sIc-  asI..Ib a l          isi,ktpt a,  -ssasS I.suii
sI-ts-tet  it.  -teisse          .1,ssti p1cls-iss  5,. -essi   w.
sespp1     -    se  SM   - adibis sekteill  asinis                                   eisa.lseias   blse   sld  as-eF.s  eeS'" s eM
sees.  Psejees.. psiesies   is m.. assi -s see  esple. .5  bi.                   O   ...sssepisd pens.
ieae  esete  ie  esetsts-4 bliSS 1 ase -s   -d5 P-ssy modelsi SsIIl,leisIs   eS ~ -IlSessa                                                      ~
epletoe Ia      ss,a   la1-msts,   k lie    .  seSese - sslliS  aS 91.4-esSeSdlln    11sestlyI                                            ses       esen
11fsZE.  Mlbsseasss  55    5ils5...s                Shis lb p--d- esse.                 ciSseisba.ses6iilq   se-l isis
seeSseliss  Z.-seI).Sp     h.  w.- *M  tstsls  sied   iss seiegll. LEt ss.                              h  S -d               ,.    tme
jg      mogmI j-sssse.  ist nis  -ec- s.d es -esiis   neh                              bIWIIIetaU.icsI   aSs esd - scl -1 Is.  sssi assIasi
su,-   W.. hiselelleessli  scSa fa sepleesse   sal Las                                   psas e.-sesseessisly   slds   hii.   ede
sevdsie   s..i   ssehessfeis.sebS.bse   ssa..scs  resje    (esdlsess  i-se.. ci scssy -etul; 5
a   uSi  e5    ss  e.  b55sisse   seaiess.a  sMeesa  ls   esasssdesacscis    s  sei51  see
besSS   s)eM   shiSrlss   t1S   eses.I  b55                                      essyeic     es    t  e   cl                     ei-eelsed
~~i~ii~TIss  isslessas-ia   5s-silie   he  la      lsd  ihPsselI  -.siis .5 IllIs                                                                Insss   s   escecsaassa
IW  e.        gm5.  Sh        s5flsiaie  Is  _ees  seSts  lb                             es-ss, essided.
sseci5sPsie.       5  b,-.'-       esid      s-ets 9 -b                       lsesiae   essiss  Iqssecicessil-siAs siSla
eilla.i.. si..ltoo, pssei.  Is lb sesel   sisye                sa                       Isid    aesl   ~55I  5sssssl   le   s
ft, II4  . y>!siseiSd-lsesiaes   s,stt'ss)ie                                                  ssSec  ss  edeis! p.5.4.   ae   sssstas
Sssssa  saI   See I    wsysee) -      II"di. -ns.sst castisses .1 Ices Si-             clile-s teltsi
P.e  sspsisi   1..is  (44-so')..)   . 1411.--I                                          sei dras-~~~s p    -    0III sesse s  sasisi= IsS
isI1ss  lsh   St Ie. s-Ises)     ib     .sei esas  icsssi.b                                   tes  ~ift,i746                   deipsisisesid
isci sescisita: she. ilil. s.i ill) dese.                         asstsis eiL. s-i.,Ssbi IsiWsaisit-.
pspista   15  St   si56   e.IsI    acHis                                                                                 1- ises  isplsss  asts ssI,eas  1  ssca
teas  ssesssste  sat  - Asine    s  .1iss5te~e    as c's ies isIs sssit  ad1 is- Ws. ebsssiess is. siII4 sets, as i                   ais
Si ssai  sps.s.ti  5.ssi i  a  cesisss  easc  sesesatls         sseartisceii  Iss  shsad epeieiat     Ucalb cifl
i.isl.sees  sssi  5a-ss  esee  sdi~  s  es.  es.a                   isetis.eN*,ees  eselitscss.cssc.   esa  a5  cnils
Z .pltess   std  salsissslesctlSa                                                                                                             t is easidese
-iiV5 -tcstq   . t   a-en ic.tsi- a   b-si  en..1.   -    L-I-     W.
sse's'ssesee  ess 5  see sesssP_   _,s.i  ..ss .i...  sea.   mei
sees. ci issiiteisslia  ~            isis. ci pe  sepis- iai  leSs. Isis  a s                                               ,esmn  cise    atls
esac  5sSisi  59  ii ~~scasses.   lcaia slsi    si- sZ                                            esie. slss.lsee   aiea
5ii s.sti  sepsis s ssl..is   icsc  ,si sssss.s "-. baeti.sieises   i   ms a                                       sees,  els,        tel  lS  ts
Chew ;. est-ht        U.,iss   kpl-. dses4e issss.. iepsn. Isaiee.see                                      a    s  Ibseesl bet ..ilsptiiitn
esisi.. esed is ss     iteesc.  s. e-      e  itI iiSii jlss   llii-                      s.setas  icin  seS5   ases
el  I t  Uc.eei  le-t*  SIh-l. i5r ed   5   -s .                                      lectr,  SI-iliTt
Ps   pie, scts p  sss  feastis)-iseI  sees   ips  sle                                  F TTTei e-                  is  I  eW.alId     tsid  esete 
s.   ,ai   'is5p.I.lt   Viflis  i  eieiadsc.e-                                            sset   Ite   f Ps-t ien   l  e.fs   e                   epsaSet si...
estiaei  is  .1  s..seit. esehiehs estee  sssl4  5. asa                  lccilis
slas   5  5IIs =si istZ_sl  i   .sd   lis               eie   e
sets. uncle   elt5s. iisa    bI             eiseds   ieef157T Tei
sssed  es  tees.tts hc.55gasisespieeaItsa                                               'isaieesssessiess.staeesci*sls 55.5i
eN, sa       iseS   d. 5  .sl  s   issi  iesd  ssu  ssnssl       nsiss   IIiaiihsslUe
This ubte  sed   sel.  55-stels  siisIsist.                                  iltatt Aestte ieete iica  eatsil  a.  eslel   si-  es  issi 



_        1S3J2D (daH81Sm                                      - 26 -aw
aw~~~~~~ tiB~~~~~U3 (~~~~~~             ~F4d 5
COPmroom MM(L  ~        ~        au                MMMI_a                            s_aeF o                     aM s
Mc acm  o #              C(t      15u )                          (aamtim)
~~~~13                    13       13      -~    181)1   13Sx 36    233    13             21      13      1               1813
m    m    Lqu   98w5.3  53.8 3                 ma  ma  N    ma  m    ma  ma
am &MCk nIAU-4        mm       !Lw    ILQR    M-         Ss      5        .1   mm    1VW        MDr    MD    MO    MO    M
blow                   kW       9      AN       9        62      6.8     2.6    2S7    2.9    3.0    J.8    3.0   .A2          2.3
&Kim                  mm.iIS   RAm     mm43    As        5.9     6 4     4.8    C2    IDA       39    25    5U2         67    5U
35    391AV5M4A  3                S9 4A6  Ss9A   8                f O0 LD I4    8O2    8MA      5
...11011b" h6.                   7,X     732      7AW     St      3.6    7.2      5      U2    17.0   191    3166         5     194
foEpxdRB                5,m7w4f 45       4M1    41        3.1     S4      L9    15A       29    1.       3.2    11.9    ILI      9.7
ftmfgdVlU               5,t    46        673      52    43        OA      8.5    M5       .9   As        27    1S7        2      1
a!neo nulme             68       53       55      5         .2    1.2    -A       19A    255    32       19.     3.3     18    13
154   130    23P      M       1M3    193      92    133
4dw1Iu8qzMu0W)  3UB      _a -a                                          m a1    m-       ma-   111      ma
!4I'd .    m             U        7        7      a       -     ZL5      7.2     -      E65    L.5    267   21.7       as    1.5
33w It  33       473     473     -                               b -8  -  1A  1.3  2.9    A.4    12.6 1
;"Edoimb>umt            4        5        __      4,3     15 31 3.5              MO1 1.J    MO    MO             M mam          ma
RUn                      D1      331     3M       3  D!          6.1    -xa3     2.      5.1   6&0    664       6.6     5.9    6.3
9erha                   33       7A      f        a    -.4      130    41.3      2.0     -      1O    Dl.6     ml       LO    1,.2
1Imy ad"41             1.3t Al   11    ZAS    1S         5.2    -S4.1    127     W7    43.6   3L1    32O    31.        SS    3.3
1sw                   2.23    2733    2148    2J4        LO     5.6   9s0    5L9    9J    S9    AL2    47OA             3    42.2
191     35       232     117      13      19       13       3     1        Nbf
GWdMlr                         234     22.9    25.5      .1    17.1       1.1     27.6    22.     7.      234
He JIM                         2.1    319      3S.7    3        31      4a6      0.3    515    811    B.9
ap jm iat                      8L7    jma       81.3 a    8Ls    21.9    2I    33L3  8 16  3nJ    4n2
2Rt Irfm  f                    730     mm      iio    2ml    I"            .      136    33.3   311    3I.2
l c=     -                    11b9     mD    m.il    2539        17.2    U9.9    1.5      mm5    I22   ID.9
1970       1975       1981       1982        1983         1984 /b
RMic FnLI e/
QiOrae  rwis                                                                9.2         9.3        7.8        7.9         7.8        L2
oamt       -                                                                6.2         6.1        7.8         8.5        8.7         9.1
9I!pIm (+) o dmfldt                                                         3.0         3.2         -        4-6         -9         -0.9
<pitua eq2ai1zsf                                                            4.5         3.5        3.3         3.5        2.8         2.8
FtUW  fEIciW fl/                                                            1.4         0.2        1.2        0.9         0.1        0.5
_                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
1960-70    1970-75    1975-83
GP grueth rate (Z)                                                          5.10       6.16        3.92
GNP per cpi  grc th  (1)                                                   2.00        4.00       1.96
_e' w,uwid- gruth rate C)                                                  5.21        4.00       4aoD
lam g,                                                                     3.54        2.95       4.40
11  z.ai am p rate h/                                                       0.13       0.21       0.01
Tjdort elictry      -                                                       1.17       0.14       2.06
of IWrld   Ain  h    tlmd.
I Prte    ey.
__  At omineket pr              a      e l at factor cot ad All nt add betd e  of idn sim of net lilct t    ad gmj               .
d Idim  b.d an 1975-10D.
fC -  dlhumta of   en1rel lo  to dto tahre ptbp c iwtor.
ILagpd am "W.
Incromz t, gri  dmtic utJilWu/kicrt to grow dmtf  rodi.et
rcdh 14, 19815
Colmi Dvilon



- 27 _
Rpi~bu 27,53IID (id-lSiD)                           IIUAM1W                                                                 i
GWIti WRIA                                                              1ep 5 Cf 
195    1~   97     IU    1Sg       M     1W       19W    191        tiui.   U       1 191 ) v 
p     o      1 Edim         mdvf       2,185   2,13    3,4    4J3    4,81   NW7   4.1    4,0    AID            4,1   4,915  %57    7)M  I2Th
iwm  at  hu, adlar6claus               2   _2         2,1W    3,10   3,9    5A       6         ,7    5,4134    5,11D  SM    5,6    6,           9
M         i                               1335    4       a      iM      719                                       )    -P2 11 M  m        1   m
A                                       I       31      40      14     II    IS        M      1e      VA       23      212      5  D5    3
*                Gamtt %lr                                  1u  3an   4    w39 n                  IS *jI  ..f    %                 M  j,  -&LA  -41  m
M t.IkuthI   t                             31     14      43      &      10       1       a3    311    s5         411     mD      Im     iD    m
Mdbhm- ard k     kn  (f)                  31 I23                  47 IID3    1f    1,ZJ                1/1       1,5 I  I,N I   1,3    31n  1   -1
ID Pik     r                            0)   (113)  (US         0DD   CS)   (Wa)  (1/n3)   ()   (t            (1t,1) (,3)  (1,193)  (13) (-M)
rs> X^o|                                 <     (-U)    (O    t-3D    (45)    (5n)  O4)    nX    (73)           (a 4n       3 )    t in)  (m5)  en)
aur                    q                          7 23   lVAS     3      -at    11       231    'J    -m_        -W      -4      -119     -      -
,iAm1 tMam                                2_      12     43m    2D3    05    IU        1.0h   214   IJ4                 *       14,4 1  0    143
0w   hIn  M    (--ims)                   -       -       -r      -4                              739                       0f2  I  O    -"    -*I
He k,mu'I a           (Cf1                SU7   1,f1    14M    2,M    4.1      ,46   SfiD  4,3    3/4           I,      1.7%   2,4713  2,1M  4A*
Rlwyw      t1UEt4uU                       3.2    6D.0     R0     R7      2.5   11.U R     .1    8.7      6A       4.2    4.2    4.4    4.R   h1)
aBsi                                     -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -        -
OmdlWz        " ef Mr )mm                31      D      75      29     92   175    1.3S7    11        1.
fb°v1                                    42      43      21      61     31      146             Ii      42
(M(4    (40)   (19)    (3)   (t)    (9)    C23)    (7)    (12)
MUA                                     (-)       C-)    C-    (-)    (-)    (-)    (-)       (-)    (-)
2tau                                    (2)    (3)    (6)    (6)    08)    (3)    CIl)    OR)    CD)
?bi_       l                             76315    214   3)    Zs       9'6    91    1,23    1,19t     1
3)fical   m                            (15)    (1n)    ()    0)    (1)   (2NA )        1)   (O27)   (293)
ui                                    (1S     t73)    (5      0      (va    cZm    (2R)   tZ7    CSI)
tw                                     OMD   (27)    (1)   (3)    (')    (43)    05)    (75)   (IS)
ta()   (111)  tm       (US)   cm      ()   m2    (60)   (a)
8CNLI  add Cf2 424^
lit amewft  ad 'dubx1                  2,192   2,47    2$U    2,8    3,31   AiR)   SVW        SIT    6/I
CIDda                                Id      1,7 1,73B  7  1  1.9%   2,143   2,     2,6     3.lB    3,
IND                                 (6)   (42    71) (M 1)   0)               1) (1.15)  (1,36) (1.11)
Mt           n.Mo(    (C)23                            )    C(3)  (02n)     (21)    (21)   (1)    (19)
Pflmu                                  84     60      82      813   t,U      19     2,i    2,90       M
WL        d lD iflt                                     ,I q5   1VW)   i5 1,     2,3  qB    3.98    31D
UNSRMC/
1I E Mt vkem   I                        Zs    321       315    3F7    65       SH      61:2    FMi     9
of  ch               l          S      115    12      13      193    2ZS      2Z8 4D1         %9 qh6
F*Eam   I        ofzl   xfb ad
aU amim                I        L       7     9.4    CAO      93  IZ.9               12A    17.1      L4
1apI(lG                                 L.8     L8      L6      1.7      3     1.6     La    72.2      2
,~~~~~~u               I -- oe ma m lh   C           7.5    6.7    7.3    7.9   1!!l    13.3   eMo    n6           n9
(mdnl                                 (6.3)   (56)   (7.3)    7.6)   (7.7)     8)   (7.6)   (9.5)  (I18)
pLbAE                               O0       (7.6)  (a)   0.6)  (U.8)  (1I7)  (140   (12.9)   (9.7)
Am dzlv Cf mimlow na)                   153    14.9     62    14.3    1n)   34i     129    1           4.
irfF--                               C@    UW        (IR4)  t"    (17.1)  (17.7)  tl"    (K3    (IA#
Pdbl                                 OP.I)   M0    (7.9)   (9.6)  (WI      (29)  (u.1    (99)   01.3)
mD m      aM )                          5 67    D.2    2.6    3.7    249       1.3  1.Z9    214    21.9
1   d dtmw1Mt          dl mD.4m 27.    21.96    .L7    D.    19A.5 27.3 21               )    2L5     3.3
WJDdftwwda=dftsw                        V      3U 0    2L5    MA    I5    2D.3    MAn  2LR             56
VIJWAlnlm                               0.9    0.9      U       0.8    M6      0.5     GA      0.      0l3
MWDamrbb3  Wm disba                     -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -
lMtulamSmlMtv itA                       0.3     (Z   0.1    (L1 i       1 (LI         CLI 0    .1    0.1
r/ Pa          dpdb6.
fUld akd pMl*xmugtdMt
M1Vh 1 90
e        haDWm



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1984)
* (US$milhiou)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellatlon) .
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbureed
67 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,427.1  23.5 1/    -
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              4.3
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr.  64.0                .6
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6              22.2
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              3.9
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              4.9
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              7.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              7.6
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0             11.1
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              3.6
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports           61.0              1.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.0               .4
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             7.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9              2.7
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                72.0             17.5
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       30.5             18.2
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0               9.8
)
1/  Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -                  Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisburaed
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrics
de Bogota                     Pover              84.6             36.2
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Comunications    44.0                  8.3
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    32.0               1.6
1857    1980  Banco de l  Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              62.9
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               124.9             70.9
*          1953    1981  Empresaa Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0             71.4
1966    1981  Colombia                         Rural Roads        33.0             15.8
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0             21.8
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de iA
Costa Atlantica               Power              36.0             22.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0            294.7
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          9.0              7.5
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways           73.8             73.8
2121    1982  Fondo Vlal Nacional              Highways          149.6            104.0
2174    1982  Colombia                         Rural Develop-
ment             53.0            50.6
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerlo de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0              12.8
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano             Agricultural
Agropecuario                    Research         63.4             62.5
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.       Coal
Exploration      9.5              9.5
2379    1984  Colombia                         Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0             28.5
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0            169.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
(Bloan)                                          ment Finance    28.8              28.8
24491/  1984  Empresas Publicas de Hedellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5            164.5
24531/  1984  Federacion Nacional de           Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colombiano         diversifi-       50.0             50.0
cation
24641/  1984  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    40.0              40.0
24701/  1984  Empresas Municipales             Water Supply       18.5             18.5
de Cucuta
TOTAL                                           4,111.0  23.5
Of which has been repaid                          918.4   4.4
Total now outstanding                           3,192.6  19.1
Amount sold                           51.0          -
Of which has been repaid              51.0          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  3,192.6  19.1
- -
Total undisbursed                                                1,504.3
1/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                             Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board            .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticlas
Noel, S.A.                      Food products        1.98    .08       2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.           Metal cans            .70       -       .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Rogar, S.A.                     Home furniture        .08    .09        .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical equipment .50         -       .50
1962           Corporacion Financiera              Development
Colombiana                         financing            -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963      Corporacion Financiera              Development
Nacional                           financing            -   2.04       2.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de              Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                             financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forias de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging           -   L.27       l.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing           1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Indlstria Ganadera                Livestock             1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles            11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desasrrollo de          Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Norte                              financing            -    .45        .45
1969           Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Valle                              financing            -    .43         .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism                .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing                 -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.               Cement               1.50       -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.           Cement               3.60       -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                          Mining               6.00       -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities           13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material          0.73   2.00       2.73



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984 (Continued)
Fiscal                                             Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business              Loan   Equity   Total
t
1981           Leasing Bolivar                     Leasing               9.00    .17       9.17
1981-1982       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86       16.01
1983            Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.              Cement and
Construction
Material         21.67  5.00       26.67
1984            Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining               10.32  1.64       11.96
Total Gross Commitments                                 99.49  26.56    126.05
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                         66.36   9.60       75.96
Total commitments now held by IFC                       33.13  16.96      50.09
Total undisbursed (including                            33.66   7.06      40.72
participants)                                               -          -



- 32 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                     2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                     EAAB
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                    June 1983
Cd)  First mission to review Project:                   March 1984
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                    July 1984
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                        February 1985
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                     July 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section IiI: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances were obtained and agreements reached that EAAB would:
(a) make satisfactory arrangements to obtain additional financial
resources, consisting of suppliers' credits and commercial bank
loans in a total amount of not less than US$50 million, for the
financing of the project (para. 55);
(b) refrain from undertaking investments, without the Bank's agreement,
which are not economically and financially justified, not part of
its in-estment program (other than investments of less than $3
million) and not supported by appropriate financing (para. 66).
(c) review with the Bank its finar.cial projections each year (and
whenever there is an expected increase in its total operating
costs in excess of increase in the consumer price index) and, based
on results of such review, take any measures necessary to maintain
its compliance with the Bank Loan Agreement rate of return covenant
(para. 65 and 67); and



- 33 -
(d) for institutional improvement related to its operations, implement
a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank (para. 44).
2.        There are no special conditions of effectiveness.  A condition for
disbursement on account of the San Rafael reservoir is that EAAB and EEEB
e       sign a cost-sharing agreement satisfactory to the Bank (pars. 55).



- ~  ~    - -      -- - -    -- - -
Unrtieated Woter
)                        hforn Chingowa
( \    P'r°S"avan~A°a/WlesnerFOL
| \ P~~iaser.' 5\rn k~id                                  1 WTreatment
_- ' j t ! ffi f --
it
-                      -J                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~Santa Ano Tonk:     _ ~             Sonr-
Usoquen Pumping StatiOn5      b                              .   Treotmenr
"Ssion~~
0+ - 4 a sv ' X - -               0            n
Cl  TA ,
future   Project  Ers,s na                                                                
Water Momls 
-            ~~~5d ' ¢ and Larger
Io 4         I
u -e  -- e  r        24e and Smaler
Tunnel
0        0      Storoge Tonks
O     Water Treatment Plcnts
6     Pumping Stations,
*     Pumping Statir'. rr be Exoanded              -'
Reservo,r
Flood Prone Arec
Flood Control Prolect
Sewage Treotnernt Plont
2                         --
S- uilt- up Areas                         AEt
Roads Outstde Built-up Areas
-    Rivers
0*-      Sanitary Perimneter
-    InternctiOnal Boundaores



IBRD 1B5
CO LOM BIA
FOURTH BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Vitelma
Treatrent Plant
Tmotment Planwaefrm%cerR
iX   W       \          C    o s o~~~~~~~~as Bianco Tonick>
o_- C~~~OSAF  (
VI'
X  >         \   iD                 A ~~~SQACHA 
% ,' le             - 4                                         ' "-.- 
; a .                 ,  an:
- '. v ',X::::.N..:::'                          CO L     O M    I A
_r ~~~~~~~~~.-..-I ., .,I,..... _
-- / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                 .                0     '
ECUADOR1
I -   -" . w- w. z:_                            _ BRAZIL
PERU?
/,{ *I    ___________________NVEMBE   1984
NOVEM8ER 198A



