The World Bank                                             1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT      Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                      U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                                 May 3, 2011
                                              CONFORMED COPY


        The Honourable V. Nazim Burke
        Minister of Finance, Economy, Planning, Energy,
        Foreign Trade and Cooperatives
        Ministry of Finance
        Financial Complex, The Carenage
        St. George’s
        GRENADA W.I.


                                 Re:      GRENADA: Technical Assistance Project
                                          EC Grant No. TF099140


        Excellency:

                 In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Grenada (“Recipient?), I
        am pleased to inform you that the International Development Association (“World Bank?), acting
        as administrator of grant funds provided by the Commission of the European Communities under the
        Grenada Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TF071138), proposes to extend to the Recipient a grant
        in an amount not to exceed four hundred sixty five thousand Euros ( 465,000) (“Grant?) on the
        terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement?), which includes
        the attached Annex, to assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex (“Project?). This
        Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic
        contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex
        to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such
        funds.

                 The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter
        into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement.

                 Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
        official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to the
        World Bank.
                                                  2



       Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement shall
become effective as of the date of countersignature; provided, however, that the offer of this
Agreement shall be deemed withdrawn if the World Bank has not received the countersigned
copy of this Agreement within thirty (30) days after the date of signature of this Agreement by
the World Bank, unless the World Bank shall have established a later date for such purpose.

                                           Very truly yours,

                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                   By p.p. Christina Malmberg Calvo
                                           Françoise Clottes
                                                Director
                                 Caribbean Country Management Unit
                                Latin America and the Caribbean Region


AGREED:

GRENADA


By:      /s/ V. Nazim Burke
           Authorized Representative

Title:   Minister for Finance

Date:    May 10, 2011


Enclosures:

(1)      Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, dated
         July 31, 2010.

(2)      Disbursement Letter of even date herewith, together with World Bank Disbursement
         Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006.
                                               3



                                                                      EC Grant No. TF099140
                                                                                    ANNEX



Article I

Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (“Standard Conditions?) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

       (a)       “Bureau of Standards? means the Recipient’s Bureau established and operating
pursuant to the Standards Act No. 6 of 1989.

        (b)    “Customs? means the Recipient’s Customs and Excise Department.

        (c)    “GIDC? means the Recipient’s Industrial Development Corporation.

        (d)    “IRD? means the Recipient’s Internal Revenue Department.

                                          Article II
                                      Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of the Project is to assist the
Recipient in the implementation of a focused reform agenda to: (a) improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of customs; (b) improve the efficiency of tax administration and decrease
transaction costs of paying taxes and consequently increase tax compliance; (c) modernize
investment promotion; and (d) enhance its support to the export sector through improving access
to trade information and strengthening the capacity of the Bureau of Standards to provide
conformity assessment and quality assurance. The Project consists of the following parts:

Part I: Customs Modernization

        (a) Development and implementation of an improved Customs’ systems and procedures;
(b) upgrading of its information technology; and (c) capacity building of Customs’ management
and staff, all through the provision of goods and technical assistance.

Part II: Tax Administration Modernization

        Provision of technical assistance to IRD staff to: (a) improve the organization and
management of the IRD; (b) improve taxpayers’ registration and services; (c) improve tax
compliance; (d) strengthen tax collection, enforcement and control; and (e) upgrade information
technology within the IRD.
                                                 4



Part III: Investment Strategy

        Modernization of investment promotion through: (a) the preparation and implementation
of an investment promotion strategy; and (b) the establishment of an investment facilitation
network.

Part IV:Implementation of Export Strategy

         Enhancement of the Recipient’s export sector through: (a) the establishment of a trade
information network; and (b) the provision of technical assistance in the areas of certification and
testing for staff to strengthen the Conformity Assessment System of the Recipient’s Bureau of
Standards.

Part V: Project Management

       Operation of a small Project Coordinating Unit to carry out the implementation and
administration of the Project, including, inter alia, financial, accounting, disbursement and
procurement management, and the preparation of Project reports (including audits).

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines?);
and (c) this Article II.

2.03. Donor Visibility and Visit. (a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such
measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Commission of the
European Communities’ support for the Project.

       (b)     For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall,
upon the World Bank’s request, enable the representatives of the Commission of the European
Communities to visit any part of the Recipient’s territory for purposes related to the Project.

2.04. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. (a) The Recipient shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in
paragraph (b) of this Section. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the
period covered by such report.

        (b)     The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph (a) consist of the
following:

                (i)      Improved clients’ perception of service quality and clearance time.

                (ii)     Improved clients’ perception of service quality and percentage of non-
                         filers.
                                                5



                (iii)   Improved investors’ perception of service delivery from the Recipient’s
                        GIDC.

                (iv)    New trade information system being used by, and satisfying to, importers
                        and exporters.

                (v)     Rate of conformity assessments and number of quality assurance
                        certificates for exports.

                (vi)    Improved clients’ perception of service delivery from the Bureau of
                        Standards.

        (c)     The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.

2.05. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
Conditions.

        (b)     The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

        (c)     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than four (4)
months after the end of such period.

2.06.   Procurement

        (a)     General. All goods, and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in:

                (i)     Section I (excluding paragraph 1.18) of the “Guidelines: Procurement
                        under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? published by the World Bank in
                        January 2011 (“Procurement Guidelines?), in the case of goods; and

                (ii)    Sections I (excluding paragraph 1.25) and IV of the “Guidelines:
                        Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers?
                        published by the World Bank in January 2011 (“Consultant Guidelines?)
                        in the case of consultants’ services.

        (b)      Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines,
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
                                                6




        (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

                (i)     Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods shall be
                        procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive
                        Bidding.

                (ii)    The following methods, other than National Competitive Bidding, may
                        be used for procurement of goods: (A) Shopping; and (B) Direct
                        Contracting.

        (d)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

                (i)     Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services
                        shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and
                        Cost-based Selection.

                (ii)    The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’
                        services: (A) Quality-based Selection; (B) Selection under a Fixed
                        Budget; (C) Least Cost Selection; (D) Selection based on Consultants’
                        Qualifications; (E) Single-source Selection; (F) Selection of Individual
                        Consultants; and (G) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
                        Individual Consultants.

         (e)    Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. Goods awarded on the
basis of Direct Contracting and contracts for Consultants’ services awarded on the basis of Sole
Source selection shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review. Except as the World Bank
shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, all other contracts shall be subject to Post
Review by the World Bank.

                                        Article III
                                Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table. The table specifies the
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
(“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
                                               7




                                     Amount of the Grant           Percentage of Expenditures
                                          Allocated                       to be Financed
            Category                 (expressed in Euro)               (inclusive of Taxes)

 Goods, Consultants’ services              465,000                      100%

 TOTAL AMOUNT                              465,000

3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature
of this Agreement by the Recipient, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed ninety three thousand Euros ( 93,000) equivalent may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after May 1, 2010.

3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is June 30, 2011.


                                         Article IV
                           Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

4.01. Recipient’s Representative. The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02
of the Standard Conditions is its Minister of Finance.

4.02. Recipient’s Address. The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

       Ministry of Finance
       Financial Complex
       The Carenage, St. Georges
       Grenada, W.I.

       Facsimile:

       (473) 440-4115

4.03. World Bank’s Address. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the
Standard Conditions is:

       International Development Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable:                   Telex:                Facsimile:

       INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.         64145                                                   (MCI)
8
