Document of
The World Baik                    FILE COPY
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
ReSo No. P-2745-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS IFISCALES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENiTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
OIL AND GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
June 4, 1980
This documt bas a restrlcted dislbutlom and may be wed by reepimts mly In the perfornmce Of
their offici duis. Its cntents may not otberwise be discte_d without Word Dank  horimwatI.n



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
April 30, 1980
Currency Unit          Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1             -     $a 1,800
US$1 million    -      $a 1,800 million
$a 1 million    -      US.$556
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Barrel (B) of crude oil (0.85
specific gravity/35° API)           =  0.135 metric ton
1 Barrel (B)                          m  0.159 cubic meter
1 British Thermal Unit (Btu)         =  0.252 kilocalories
1 Cubic Foot (CF)                     =  0.028 cubic meter
1 Standard Cubic Foot (SCF) of
Natural Gas 1/                      m  1,000 Btu
1 Metric Ton of Crude Oil             =  44.4 x 10 Btu
I Mile                                =  1.609 kilometers
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
B         -       Barrel
BD        -      Barrels per day
CFD       -       Cubic Feet per day
GdE       -       Gas del Estado
IDB       -      Inter-American Development Bank
MCF       -       Thousand Cubic Feet
MMCF      -      Million Cubic Feet
MMCFD     -       Million Cubic Feet per day
YPF       -       Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
Toe       -       Tons of oil equivalent
LPG       -       Liquefied Petroleum Gas (Propane/Butane)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas at sea level and 60
degrees Fahrenheit contained in one cubic foot of space and
is referred to as a standard cubic foot (SCF).



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad del Estado
(YPF).
w            Guarantor:             The Argentine Republic.
Amount:                US$27 million.
Terms:                 15 years including 3 years of grace at 8.25% per annum.
Project                The objectives of the proposed project are (a) improve
Description:          information on country-wide oil and gas reserves as
basis for a rational program of field development;
(b) assist YPF in locating favorable geological
structures in the Northwestern Basin (Porcelana-Rio
Seco area); and (c) study the optimum development and
utilization of natural gas primarily to avoid waste
and to determine related investment requirements. The
project consists of: (a) 220 man-months of consultants'
services to audit the reserves in 44 major reservoirs;
(b) about 1,000 line-kilometers of semi-detailed seismic
surveys in a 60 km x 40 km quadrangle in the Porcelana-
Rio Seco area; and (c) 160 man-months of consultants'
services to study the optimum development and utilization
of natural gas. The project is expected to result in a
number of subsequent projects aimed at strengthening the
productive capacity of the oil and gas sector and assist-
ing the country in attalning energy self-sufficiency.
The project components carry no special risks except
for the seismic surveys which could fail to identify
hydrocarbon-bearing strlictures or generate data which
do not give conclusive evidence on prospects. This
risk is normal for the industry.
I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b)y recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- li -
Estimated Cost:1/
Local        ForeiRn        Total
-----(US$ Millions Equivalent)---
Auditing of Reserves                         0.7            2.4           3.1
Seismic Surveys                             16.3           17.5          33.8
Natural Gas Optimization Study               0.3            2.0           2.3
Base Cost                               17.3           21.9          39.2
Physical Contingencies                       1.9            2.5           4.4
Price Contingencies                          3.4            2.6           6.0
Total Project Cost                      22.6           27.0         49.6
Financing Plan:                                 Local         Foreign        Total
----(US$ Millions Equivalent)---
Government                                   0.6                          0.6
YPF                                         22.0             -           22.0
IBRD                                           -           27.0          27.0
Totals                                    22.6           27.0          49.6
Estimated
Disbursements:  IBRD FY                        1981           1982          1983
Annual                                      10.0           10.0           7.0
Cumulative                                  10.0           20.0          27.0
Rate of Return:                                  Not applicable.
-Appraisal Report:                                No separate report.
1/ Excluding taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO YACIMIENTOS
PETROLIFEROS FISCALES FOR AN OIL ANID GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) with the guarantee of The Argentine
Republic for the equivalent of US$27.0 million to help finance an oil and gas
engineering project comprising; (a) auditing of reserves, (b) seismic surveys,
and (c) a study on optimization of natural gas use. The loan would have a
term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest of 8.25% per annum.
US$2.4 million would be on-lent to the Government's Secretariat of Energy
which would undertake the natural gas optimization study.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in November 1979 and its
report is being prepared. The following section reflects the findings of
that mission. The last Economic Memorandum (Nc,. 2208-AR) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in November 1978. CounTtry data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is a semi-industrialized country with a per capita income
of US$1,910 as of 1978, a sizeable middle class and a fairly even distribution
of income. Postwar GDP growth has averaged 3.5% in an economy which has
been subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies to restrictive stabilization programs have
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government pursued an ambitious public
investment program. Large increases in public expenditures, nominal wages and
credit resulted in strong growth of domestic output, while maintenance of
fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an intensi-
fication of domestic social and political conf]ict. Caught up in a wage-price
spiral, inflation rose to over 300% in 1975 and accelerated to an annual rate
of about 800% in early 1976. A rapidly increasing foreign debt and a drastic
fall in foreign exchange reserves brought the country close to defaulting on
its external obligations.
Stabilization Efforts 1976-1978
4.        The new Administration, which came to power in March 1976, had as
its initial objectives strengthening the balance of payments, restructuring
the external debt and preventing hyper-inflation. Policies such as lowering of
export taxes and raising interest rates had an immediate positive effect on
the balance-of-payments. Monetary and fiscal policies, supported by wage
controls, succeeded in bringing down the rate of inflation from 780% during



- 2 -
the year ending in April 1976 to 150% a year later. No further progress was
made, however, in reducing inflation during the remainder of 1977 and 1978.
Output varied greatly. After recuperating rapidly from the 1975-1976 reces-
sion, growth came to a halt in late 1977 when a credit crunch and record high
interest rates resulted in a drop in investment.
5.        Whereas external sector policies introduced in 1976 immediately
produced favorable export results, imports were held down by two recessions.
As a consequence, the resource balances registered surpluses of $1.9 billion
and $2.8 billion in 1977 and 1978 respectively.  Surpluses on current
account were accompanied by substantial net capital inflows. At the begin-
ning, the public sector was the primary borrower, but starting in 1977, high
domestic interest rates induced the private sector to borrow abroad on an
increasing scale. Although the authorities introduced some controls in 1978,
long-term capital continued to flow into Argentina, and by the end of that
year gross foreign exchange reserves stood at US$5.8 billion, equivalent to
14 months of imports. Net reserves amounted to US$5.0 billion. This reserve
growth permitted a new approach to inflation control in the framework of an
open economy.
The 1979 Program
6.        In late December 1978 the Government announced the following
program: predetermined schedules for adjustment of (i) exchange rates,
(ii) prices of fuels and public sector services, (iii) wages, and (iv) the
monetary base of internal origin, combined with a five-year import tariff
reduction schedule and the formal reopening of the capital market to inter-
national transactions. Most of the adjustments were to follow a declining
trend, designed to dampen inflationary expectations and to limit price increases
of domestic producers. Foreign competition was to reduce the rate of price
increase of domestic tradeable goods to the level determined by (a) the rate
of price increase abroad and (b) the rate of depreciation of the peso. It was
recognized,.however, that possible tariff redundancy and lags in the adjustment
of imports would delay this "convergence" of domestic and foreign inflation
rates.
7.        The new import tariff schedule provided for major reductions in
tariffs on goods produced in Argentina. By the end of 1983 the range of
import tariffs is to be reduced to 10%-45%, compared with 10%-85% at the
beginning of 1979, and the average tariff will have fallen from over 50% to
less than 25%. Shortly after the announcement of the 1979-84 liberalization
schedule, the Government started a supplementary program of temporary tariff
reductions for goods whose domestic price increases exceeded increases in
input costs. In March 1979, tariffs for capital goods were eliminated in
order to facilitate the re-equipment and modernization of Argentine industry.
These latter two tariff cutting programs were originally to be in place for
only one year but have now been extended for a second year.
8.        One notable feature of the current stabilization strategy is the
passivity of monetary and fiscal policy. The pre-fixing of the peso vis-a-vis
the dollar, along with the elimination of capital controls, allow the monetary
authorities to influence only the money base originating from domestic sources.
For each quarter in 1979, quantitative targets for the monetary base of



-3-
domestic origin were set to ensure an adequate supply of credit to borrowers
who had no access to foreign credit sources and to limit the increase in
international reserves. Fiscal policy is also viewed to be of secondary
importance insofar as short-term stabilization objectives are concerned.
The crowding-out effect, which is normally expected to result from heavy
public borrowing, does not occur, if the suppLy of foreign capital is, as
the authorities believe, highly elastic. Nevertheless, as an additional
measure to mitigate inflationary expectations, the authorities planned for
a further decrease in the Central Government's deficit from 2.8% of GDP in
1978 to 1.5% in 1979. The overall public sect:or deficit was not expected to
change significantly, however, from its 1978 Level, estimated at about 5%
of GDP.
Results of the Program
9.        Most of the policies outlined above were implemented during the
course of 1979. The key variable, the exchangte rate, was moved according to
plan; the tariff reform was applied; public sector prices and tariffs were
adjusted as envisaged; the monetary base of internal origin expanded only
slightly more than projected. However, the eLimination of capital controls
and the maintenance of the schedule for exchange rate devaluation, despite
high internal inflation, led to heavy capital inflows amounting to over
US$1.5 billion in the first nine months. With a tight labor market prevailing
throughout 1979, nominal wages increased more rapidly than scheduled and the
Government eliminated the legal limitations oni wage increases in September.
10.       The new approach did not begin to work immediately.  Through the
first eight months of 1979 the wholesale and consumer price indices rose at
the same rates on an annual basis as in 1977 and 1978. Among the factors
explaining the continued high rate of inflation in the first half of 1979 was
the unusually rapid rise in international prices, particularly of primary
products exported by Argentina. The external price component of the wholesale
price index, important for determining internal prices, increased at about two
to three times the average rate of increase during 1978. Another part of the
divergence between actual and expected price behavior can be explained by lags
in private sector recognition of import opportunities, combined with organi-
zational problems and a lack of confidence in the durability of the system.
As a result, possible excess demand was not fully met by imports, at least
in the first three quarters of 1979. Several indicators also point at demand-
pull factors. Monetary and credit expansion, boosted by the massive inflow of
foreign capital, continued at a high level. lJnemployment was reduced from
2.8% in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979, wages were adjusted more frequently, and aggregate
real consumption expenditure expanded by 10%.
11.       By September 1979, however, wholesaLe and consumer price increases
had begun to decelerate. The general wholesa:Le price index, which had risen
at an average rate of 8.3% per month from January to August, increased by an
average of only 3.3% per month from September 1979 to March 1980, the lowest
monthly rates since early 1974. The deceleration in inflation has led to a



- 4 -
real depreciation of the exchange rate, higher real wages and positive real
interest rates. While the lowering of domestic prices in September and
October can be attributed in large part to decreasing prices of primary
products, the impact of increasing exposure of manufacturers to international
competition became discernible in November and December. As expected, the
branches most clearly exposed to foreign competition are those showing price
deceleration most clearly.
Prospects for 1980
12.       In accordance with the preannounced schedule, the peso was devalued
by 2.8% in January 1980 with a 0.2% decrease in the rate of adjustment in each
of the following months. Any excess demand in 1980 would be increasingly
reflected in the balance of payments on current account. Effects of the past
appreciation of the peso in real terms and tariff reductions which are only
now being felt in the economy should lead to a continuous deceleration in
inflation. Moreover, the Government intends to reduce public investment
relative to GDP and to increase real public sector tariff rates only gradually.
With prices of traded goods decelerating for the reasons mentioned above, the
wage transmission mechanism is expected to have a decelerating impact on the
prices of non-tradeables as well.
13.       Preliminary projections indicate a deficit on current account of
between TJS$700 million and US$1 billion for 1980. Such a large deficit could
trigger expectations of devaluation resulting in capital outflow. This
possibility is recognized by the authorities and is a risk they are willing to
take. With exchange reserves standing at a record amount of US$10.2 billion,
they have reiterated their determination to make whatever internal adjustments
in output and employment may be necessary to avoid large-scale devaluation and
the new round of inflationary impulses it could start.
Medium- and Long-Term Development Prospects
14.       With the import tariff reduction beginning to take effect, industrial
and overall economic growth are expected to be relatively slow in 1980 and
1981. In addition, business failures of weak or overexpanded firms, should
become more widespread and unemployment should increase--albeit from low
levels. The scope of readjustment may be reduced if the small real deprecia-
tion of the currency continues, reestablishing export and import substitution
incentives. Availability of long-term credit for re-equipment and moderni-
zation will be a crucial requirement for supporting the restructuring of
industry. Since the private sector is also expected to take on a number of
tasks previously undertaken by the public sector, the flexibility and effi-
ciency of the Argentine financial system will be severely tested.
15.       While agricultural production is expected to decrease in 1980
because of unfavorable weather conditions, growth in agricultural output in
the early 1980s should continue on the expansion path started in 1976/77.
Exports of agricultural products and investment incentives for agriculture
should rise given the expected deceleration in domestic industrial price
increases and favorable prices of Argentine products in international markets.
The contribution of these factors together with increased use of technical
innovations could lead to a sustained growth of agricultural output beyond
the 3.5% average rate achieved in the last three years.



16.       Exports in current prices have grown over the past three years at
an average rate of 25% per year, a rate which will be difficult to sustain.
Although expansion in the immediate future is expected to be more gradual,
export prospects appear to be excellent over the longer term. Since the
outlook for world prices of Argentina's export products is favorable, total
export earnings are projected to increase by an average of 18% annually during
1980-1985 (5% in real terms). About 85% of thait increase would be generated
by agriculture and agro-industry and about 15% by the manufacturing sector.
Although Argentina is currently supplying 90% cof its petroleum domestically
and expects to be self-sufficient by the mid 1980s, the ongoing import liberali-
zation process, as well as the need for modernization of infrastructure and
industry implies that imports in current prices; could increase at about 20%
per annum through 1985 (7% in real terms). The current account balance is
projected to turn negative from 1980 onward restoring Argentina to its tradi-
tional situation of a net capital importing cotntry. Gross inflows of medium-
and long-term capital including direct foreign investment are projected to
increase from US$3.1 billion in 1979 to US$4.9 billion in 1985. The bulk of
these capital flows should be available from bilateral arrangements, export
credits, world capital markets, and direct private investments. Official
multilateral sources, however, may play an impcrtant role by providing financial
support combined with technical and organizaticnal assistance and by stimulating
capital flows from other sources.
17.       Argentina's medium- and long-term external public debt amounted to
US$6.8 billion at the end of 1978, an increase of US$1.9 billion over its 1977
level. Medium- and long-term private external debt also expanded significantly
from US$3.2 billion to US$4.6 billion. External public and total debt service
ratios, which had been 15% and 24% respectively in 1977, increased to 21% and
39% in 1978. These increases reflect the Central Bank's prepayments of over
US$1 billion in debt contracted in 1976-77 for balance-of-payments purposes
and some increase in private capital outflow. Amortization and interest paid
in the first three quarters of 1979 show that the debt service ratios had
returned to the 1977 level. The Bank's share in the external public debt was
5.7% in 1978 and its share in debt service was 3.2%. Given the relatively
modest anticipated expansion of the public investment program, the public debt
service ratio is expected to remain below 20%, with the Bank's share not
expected to rise above 1978 levels. Although private indebtedness will
probably increase more rapidly, the overall debt service ratio is unlikely to
rise above 35% in the coming years. The current level of foreign exchange
assets of over US$10 billion should provide a comfortable margin to counteract
any sudden capital outflows. Therefore, Argentina is considered creditworthy
for Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
18.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After
a hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976. Since that
date, the Bank has made loans for seven projects amounting to US$791.0
million, of which a loan of US$60 million for an agricultural credit project
was recently cancelled. Projects financed by the Bank before 1971 are prac-
tically completed. Bank assistance during the past three years has been
directed to major infrastructure projects and to the provision of credit
for productive sectors, in order to assist Argentina through the initial
stabilization effort. The grain storage project would enable Argentina to
obtain better prices for agricultural products and to export them in a more
orderly manner throughout the year. The industrial credit project supports
the modernization and expansion of efficient industry in general and export
oriented industry in particular. The electric transmission and distribution
project, the Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project, the fourth highway project and
the second railway project provide part of the infrastructure necessary to
facilitate agricultural and industrial expansion. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1980, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The Bank's approach to assisting Argentina in recent years was to
participate in a limited number of relatively large loans. Now that the
Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address struc-
tural and institutional constraints in the productive and social sectors,
its task has become more complex. Somewhat more diversified Bank lending
will be required to respond to the Government's request for assistance in
areas critical for Argentina's future economic and social development.
20.       Such a program would follow a three-pronged strategy of assistance.
The Bank would finance projects to help, first, reform Argentina's economic
structure and make it more competitive; second, strengthen key public institu-
tions and support rational sector policies; and, third, address some social
problems. Projects in industry would aim predominantly at restructuring the
sector by concentrating the development of industrial capacity in areas where
Argentina has a comparative advantage or the ability to compete at world market
prices. Bank involvement in the agricultural sector would support the Govern-
ment's infrastructure investment program in areas where Argentina possesses a
comparative advantage which has not yet been fully utilized.



21.       With the decline in effective protec:tion, input costs have become
critical factors in determining the competitiveness of Argentina's productive
sector in international markets. Energy and t:ransport are particularly
important cost components. Projects in the energy sector are expected to help
develop the potential of the water resources shared by Argentina and its
neighbors and the domestic water resources commensurate with the needs of an
expanding economy; in the transport sector, projects would improve the handling
capacity and efficiency of the respective modes, thus mitigating the adverse
effect of Argentina's geographical location on international trade.
22.       Virtually all projects under consideration would have important
institution building objectives. Because of managerial weaknesses and
political constraints, most of Argentina's key public enterprises and agencies
have been unable to implement sound investment: and operating policies. Proj-
ects in support of Government efforts to redress this situation would be
mainly in the transport, energy and social sectors. In the electric power
sector, the Government has prepared, in close cooperation with the Bank, a
least cost investment program, and initiated a process to streamline the orga-
nization of the sector. In close consultation with the Bank, the Government
has initiated a comprehensive program for redimensioning the railway system
that has already resulted in certain improveme!nts. The National Highway
Service has been strengthened, and actions to improve port services are under
way. Continued Bank association with the transportation sector would aim at
consolidating these measures and carrying them further. The proposed project
and other projects in the hydrocarbon sector would assist Argentina in the
effort to rationalize and expand petroleum exyloration and exploitation and to
remove bottlenecks in the processing and markEting of oil and natural gas.
23.       Bank involvement in water supply and sewerage, regional development
and vocational training would help formulate sector policies and strengthen
institutions which are not fully equipped to handle efficiently new or larger
tasks which the Government intends to entrust to them. Bank support in the
water supply and sewerage sector would include measures to upgrade the plan-
ning and implementing capacity of pertinent Gcvernment and provincial agencies.
The Bank would also assist in the decentralization policy of the Government
through participation in regional development. Bank support would relate to
formulation of investment plans, preparation cf budgets, proposals on revenue
sharing and upgrading of local managerial and organizational capacity. The
Bank is planning to assist in redefining the role and policies of the National
Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training in response to the
needs resulting from the reorientation of indtustry.
IFC Operations
24.       As of April 30, 1980, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in
Argentina totalling US$99.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.5 mil-
lion, of which US$46.8 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A sum-
mary of IFC's investments up to April 30, 198CI, is shown in Annex II.



-8-
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Overall Setting
25.       Argentina has a substantial and diversified energy base.  The
exploitable hydro-electric power potential over 50 years is estimated at 2.9
billion tons of oil equivalent (Toe) but the installed capacity to date would
allow the harnessing of only about 7% of this potential. Proven reserves of
crude oil at end-1978 were 330 million tons (2.4 billion barrels (B)) and
those of natural gas, 15.3 trillion cubic feet (375 million Toe), equivalent
to 15 years and 40 years of current output respectively. There are also
deposits of thermal coal, albeit of relatively low quality, and potential for
vegetable fuels (firewood, bagasse), geothermal, wind and solar energy.
Petroleum and natural gas, while accounting for only 14% of identified energy
reserves, meet 86% of domestic energy demand. Because of past erratic policies
especially with regard to private investment, the productive capacity for
petroleum and natural gas has remained below its potential. As its primary
development objective for the energy sector, the Government aims at eliminating
petroleum imports by attaining petroleum self-sufficiency by the mid-1980's
and building up exports once adequate reserves are identified. A large-scale
expansion of hydro-electric power generation for the short- and medium-term is
underway while a gradual expansion of nuclear generation based on domestic
natural uranium is planned.
26.       Primary energy output during 1970-75 increased at a rate well below
demand growth primarily because of declining crude oil production. This
resulted in a weakening of Argentina's overall energy position and increased
petroleum imports. A marked improvement took place from 1976 onwards. Crude
oil output during 1976-79 rose by about 4.5% per annum and hydro capacity
doubled, reaching 3,200 MW in the latter year. Energy demand in recent years
grew at a lower rate than output. Energy demand in 1978 totalled 42.3 million
Toe, i.e. 100 billion British Thermal Units (BTU) per 1 million US dollars of
GDP. This is high by Latin American standards but is comparable to countries
with a similar level of development. Demand composition changed considerably
during 1970-78. Petroleum products' share declined from 69% to 59% of energy
demand whereas the share of natural gas increased from 21% to over 27% and
that of hydro/nuclear power combined, from 1.3% to over 7%. Coal and vegetable
fuels account for the remainder. Electricity use has increased from 21% to
nearly 30% of final energy consumption.
Hydrocarbon Sector
27.       Argentina's oil and gas sector ranks third in output and fourth in
refining capacity in Latin America. Producing fields are scattered widely in
six sedimentary basins (Annex 4 and Map IBRD 14924), and their remoteness from
the main refining and consumption centers poses difficult logistical problems.
Output of crude and condensate in 1979 approached 173 million B, the highest
ever, and that of natural gas increased to 436 billion CF (1.2 billion cubic
feet per day (CFD)). The oil and gas sector, including refining, contributes
about 2% to GDP. Argentina has attained a high degree of hydrocarbon self-
sufficiency as imports in 1979 accounted for just 12.7% of domestic petroleum



- 9 -
demand and 20% of natural gas demand. Import volumes of crude oil and natural
gas continued to decline in 1979 whereas imporl: volumes of petroleum products--
primarily gasoline, kerosene and gas oil--increased considerably. Because of
substantial price increases, the import bill for hydrocarbons reached US$1,050
million, equivalent to 18% of merchandise imports, up from US$408 million in
1978. Imports of natural gas from Bolivia are based on a 20-year contract
extending to 1992 and will be increased from 1G0 million CFD in 1979 to
230 million CFD from mid-1980 onwards.
Institutional Base
28.       Sector policies are the responsibilit:y of the Secretariat of Energy
(Secretaria de Estado de Energia) within the Mi'nistry of Economy. The Secre-
tariat is charged with (i) pricing and investment policies, (ii) approval of
exploration and production contracts negotiated between the state oil enter-
prise and private companies, and (iii) developrient of new sources and overall
energy planning, a function which is still in :.nitial stages. The state-owned
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF), which was established in 1922, is the
main policy implementing entity. It operates -n virtually every branch of
the petroleum and natural gas sector except marketing of natural and liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG). In 1979 YPF accounted for about 50% of exploration, over
two-thirds of crude output, 85% of natural gas output and 73% of petroleum
refining.  YPF is also charged with negotiating and monitoring exploration
and production contracts with private companies. Gas del Estado (GdE), a
state enterprise established in 1957, is responsible for imports, processing
and marketing of natural gas and LPG. There is also a significant and growing
participation by private firms, both domestic and foreign, in the oil and gas
sector. Exxon and Shell are active in explorat:ion, refining and marketing;
Cities Service and Amoco, in production; and Total, Occidental and Union of
Texas, in exploration. About 16 domestic companies are producing hydrocarbons
as contractors of YPF and some 50 specialized iirms provide services to the
petroleum industry.
Exploration and Production
29.       Argentina's hydrocarbon-bearing areas cover about 1.2 million sq km
onshore and 0.4 million sq km offshore. Of the six basins (Annex IV and Map
IBRD 14924) the Cuyo basin is probably the best: explored and the Southern
basin, the least explored. Cumulative discoveries of crude from the early
1900's have amounted to 5.55 billion B, of which 3.1 billion B have already
been produced. Exploration has surged since 1976, and the decline in reserves
was reversed as a result. This was largely because of the resumption of explora-
tion by private firms after the Government launched a policy of encouraging
such investment, complemented by YPF's efforts. From 1980 onwards, both YPF
and private companies are likely to step up exploration, especially in the
extreme Southern and Northern basins where private companies have acquired
acreage.
30.       As an increasing area for exploration and production has been
assigned to the private sector, recent increases in crude output have been
brought about mainly by private firms. The latter now provide nearly



- 10 -
one-third of crude output, up from 27.5% in 1975. Associated with this
development, there has been an increase in the share of crude produced through
secondary recovery. Output of natural gas, which is largely associated with
crude, increased at a rate averaging about 6% per annum throughout the 1970's.
Natural gas output is concentrated in Santa Cruz and Neuquen, but the fastest
growth has occurred in the distant Tierra del Fuego fields.
Refining and Transport
31.       Refining capacity amounts to some 0.7 million barrels per day (BD).
There is a total of 14 refineries, six of which are owned by YPF. Most
refineries are small and only four are larger than 0.1 million BD. Refineries
are located largely near consumption centers. Capacities have been ample to
meet domestic demand for most products, except medium distillates, and to
provide exportable surpluses of fuel oil. Because of the small size of most
units and low capacity utilization of less than 70% for the industry as a
whole, refining costs are high. Until recently, the Government allocated
crude primarily to YPF's refineries. As a result of policy changes aimed at
minimizing processing and marketing costs of petroleum products, domestically
produced crude is now allocated according to individual refineries' share of
the market for petroleum products.
32.       In the transport subsector, a system of pipelines is owned and
operated exclusively by YPF (crude and petroleum product pipelines) and GdE
(natural gas pipelines). Only 45% of crude and about one-third of products
are moved by pipeline, the remainder being transported by coastal tankers,
rail and road. Crude oil pipelines total some 1,700 km in length and 0.43
million BD in capacity, and are concentrated in Neuquen and the Northern
area. Crude from the Southern production centers is transported by tankers
entirely owned and operated by YPF. Product pipelines amount to 2,950 km and
nearly 0.4 million BD of capacity. Trunk pipelines for natural gas extend
along the length of the country, connecting the producing areas in the
extreme North and South with the consumption centers around Buenos Aires.
Gas pipeline capacity of 1 billion CFD is sufficient to meet summer demand,
but falls short of potential winter peak demand by about 20%, thus restricting
gas use. Expansion of the Northern and Southern trunklines and construction
of a new pipeline from the gas-rich Neuquen fields to the Buenos Aires indus-
trial belt, to be completed in 1982, will ease supply bottlenecks and allow
better utilization of gas resources. Storage capacity for crude oil and
petroleum products is about 18 million B each or about 70-80 days's supply
which is adequate in light of Argentina's relatively high degree of self-
sufficiency. For natural gas, very little storage is available.
Domestic Demand
33.       Domestic demand for petroleum fuels including field and refinery
consumption amounted in 1978 to about 437,000 BD. Among the major sectors
of demand, transport accounts for 54%; power generation, 20%; industry, 15%;
and the commercial and residential sectors combined, 11% of petroleum fuels
consumption. Increase in sales to final consumers during 1971-78 averaged
nearly 2.5% per annum. There were considerable variations for specific
periods and individual products resulting from varying overall economic and



- 11 -
sectoral performance, evolution in relative prices and substitution processes.
Consumption of transport fuels has grown faster and fluctuated less than that
of industrial and household fuels. Gasoline consumption fell in 1974-75 when
its relative price increased substantially, but resumed afterwards its
historic growth of 5.5-6% p.a. Consumption of industrial diesel and fuel oil
declined reflecting increased use of natural gas in industry and of hydropower
in electricity generation. Consumption of LPG has been growing fairly rapidly,
replacing kerosene.
34.       Natural gas has become increasingly important for meeting Argentina's
energy requirements. Industry accounts for nearly one-half of natural gas
use, followed by power generation (20%) and residential, commercial and
Government sectors (about 30% combined). Howevrer, some 30% of output, net of
reinjection, is flared and it is urgent to improve gas utilization to reduce
this waste of a valuable energy resource.
Public-Private Sector Relationship
35.       In pursuit of its objective of attair,ing.petroleum self-sufficiency
by the mid-1980's, the Government has initiated. policies aimed at increasing
YPF's efficiency and is giving top priority to enhancing participation by
private firms in exploration and production.  Writh regard to the former, YPF's
operations are being streamlined, its administration strengthened, and its
managerial autonomy increased (para. 48 and Anrex 5). Private sector partici-
pation is on the basis of service contracts with YPF which are awarded through
competitive bidding. Foreign firms have to operate in association with domes-
tic private firms for new exploration and prodtLction ventures. Exploration
is regulated by the 1978 Risk Contract Law (No. 21,778) as complemented by
individual contracts between YPF and private companies. The initial explora-
tion period is five years for onshore and sever. years for offshore areas.
The development/production period is 25 years from the date of a commercial
discovery and cannot exceed 30 years for exploration and production combined.
The entire production has to be sold to YPF. The price for it normally is
set at the time of bidding for exploration ares.s. Prices incorporated in
recent awards have been in the order of 60% of international prices adjustable
according to a formula related to output and domestic inflation. In the case
of offshore natural gas discoveries, the operator is permitted to postpone
exploitation for up to 10 years to allow for development of markets and con-
struction of necessary infrastructure. The awerd of contracts for production
follows a similar pattern, with bidding based on the sales price to YPF,
production volume, and/or size of investment, among others. In all cases,
investment is financed by the contractor, with installations to be handed over
to YPF at the end of the exploitation period without further compensation.
Contracting companies are subject to standard corporate income taxation, with
provisions to take account of the specific requirements of the petroleum
industry.
36.       The Government's policy of attracting private investment to hydro-
carbon development has been reasonably successful. In response to the improved
investment climate, private companies have concluded with YPF during 1977-79
12 exploration contracts covering nearly 85,000 sq km and 18 production



- 12 -
contracts for 5,100 sq km. Some of the latter are for secondary recovery.
There is keen interest among foreign companies to participate in hydrocarbon
exploration because of their favorable assessment of Argentina's hydrocarbon
potential.
Investment Program and Prospects
37.       Investment in the oil and gas sector over the medium term is geared
towards two inter-related objectives, i.e. (i) increase of the productive
capacity of crude oil for attaining self-sufficiency by the mid-1980's and
(ii) expansion and adaptation of the transport infrastructure for moving hydro-
carbons from increasingly distant production sites to the centers of process-
ing and consumption.  While increases in energy demand over the 1979-85 period
might be in the order of 5% per annum, petroleum demand is not expected to
grow by much more than 3% per annum because of large-scale hydropower expan-
sion and substitution of natural gas. However, in order to attain petroleum
self-sufficiency by the mid-1980's, crude output growth would have to be
maintained at least at 4% per annum. This should be attainable as there is
significant scope for enhanced recovery and good possibilities for further
important discoveries, taking into consideration that a large portion of
potentially hydrocarbon-bearing areas has yet to be explored. It is likely
that more gas than crude oil will be found. However, with considerable
potential gas demand in industry, power generation and the residential and
commercial sectors, consumption growth through the mid-1980s could be close
to 10% per annum, which would justify an accelerated gas development program.
Imports of natural gas from Bolivia are expected to remain at their contract
level throughout the 1980's. At the same time, gas exports to other neighbor-
ing countries are also conceivable, given Argentina's potential.
38.       The Government is in the process of updating the investment program
for the oil and gas sector. Based on projects prepared by YPF and GdE and
taking account of increasing private sector involvement, investment in the
sector in 1979-85 could total about US$14.3 billion (1979 prices). Explora-
tion and field development might absorb US$9.5-10 billion (68% of total
investment) with the expectation of discovering and developing at least 2.3
billion B additional crude reserves which would maintain the reserves/
production ratio at 15 years throughout the 1980's. This includes recon-
naissance and semi-detailed seismic surveys averaging about 25,000 line-km
per year as a vital initial step for exploration. Transport, storage and
distribution might require 30% and refining (mainly for secondary processing)
2% of future investment as present refining capacities are ample to meet
demand over the next five years or so. YPF's 1979-85 investment for explora-
tion, field development and production, refining and transport might be in
the order of US$7 billion.  GdE's 1979-85 investment program totals US$1.3
billion. Nearly one-half of it is for increasing pipeline capacity by about 1
billion SCF, more than doubling present capacity in the process. Financing
requirements for investment of this magnitude will be considerable. Even if
future sales prices for YPF and GdE would enable these entities to meet 40-50%
of investment through internal cash generation, there would be borrowing
requirements for the 1979-85 period totalling US$4-4.5 billion, the larger
part of which would have to be covered from abroad.



- 13 -
39.       It is not yet clear what proportion of total investment might be
undertaken by the private sector. Private firms have committed themselves to
substantial expenditures on exploration and production. Private equity is
financing a US$650 million natural gas transmission project initiated by GdE
and might also be available for other pipeline projects. In order to play a
more important part in petroleum development, domestic private firms need
improved access to financing including domestic financing. The Bank is
exploring the possibilities for strengthening capabilities of the domestic
banking system to support these efforts.
Policy Issues
40.       The main issues affecting the sector are pricing and overall plan-
ning, particularly of natural gas development. Current natural gas use
relative to reserves is limited and inefficient. Some 30% of output net of
reinjection is being flared, amounting to 350 million CFD, which in terms
of energy content is almost equivalent to petroleum and natural gas imports
combined. The proportion of output lost thrcough flaring, especially of gas
associated with crude oil production, is liketly to increase if infrastructure
and gas utilization are not improved. The current inefficiency in the use
of natural gas is based on first, an overall shortage of infrastructure because,
until very recently, producers have been dissuaded by low prices to supply
larger amounts of natural gas to GdE, and the!y were reluctant to invest in gas
gathering and transport facilities. Second, the substitution of natural gas
for fuel oil is difficult in some local marke!ts near inland refineries where
fuel oil is in excess supply. This explains in part why fuel oil is priced
nationally about 10% below the price of natural gas and therefore the feasi-
bility for setting differential prices among regions should be reviewed.
Furthermore, even with a significant increase! in gas prices, studies are
needed to determine the extent and location of investments for recycling and
transport infrastructure, because the main gE&s fields vary in size and are
dispersed geographically. Thus, the optimum scope of natural gas output and
use needs to be analyzed on a regional as well as national basis, together
with an assessment of alternative uses for fuels replaced by natural gas and
of related investment requirements. Such a study is included in the proposed
project. The Government would discuss the results of this study with the
Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
41.       Fuel pricing in Argentina is complex.  It involves issues related
to crude oil and natural gas prices to producers as well as ex-refinery,
wholesale and retail prices for petroleum products and natural gas to consumers.
Between early 1976 and mid-1978, the Government enacted substantial price
increases at all levels. Measured in current, US$ terms, these increases over
this period totaled 40% for producer prices of crude, 114% for retail prices
of petroleum products and 85-90% for natural gas tariffs. However, in an
attempt to slow down inflation, the Government, during late 1978 and in 1979,
kept these increases significantly below increases in the overall price
level and in fuel import costs. By end-1979, the retail price of petroleum
products averaged US$0.75/gal (US$1.30/gal fcr gasoline). Net of fuel taxes
that aggregate 40% of the retail price and distribution costs, the ex-refinery
price at end-1979 averaged just about US$0.3,/gal which was less than 60% of



- 14 -
the international level 1/ and below the amount paid by refiners/distributors
for imported crude and petroleum products. GdE was particularly hard hit by
increased costs of imported gas. GdE's net profits were about US$28 million
in 1979 compared with US$99 million in the previous year. The Government has
compensated the refiners/distributors from fuel tax revenues for the loss
incurred in import operations. These compensation payments were close to
US$175 million equivalent in 1979. To shield the consumer further from higher
energy costs, the Government also reduced fuel taxes on some products. How-
ever, in early 1980, the Government reestablished a policy of increasing
fuel prices in real terms.
42.       The Bank has discussed with the Government the objectives of fuel
pricing which should be (i) an improvement in the financial position of YPF
and GdE taking into consideration investment requirements and future increases
in costs of exploration, production, and purchase of hydrocarbons (imports and
production from risk sharing contracts); (ii) elimination of Government com-
pensation payments to refiners/distributors; (iii) stimulation of production,
reduction of import requirements and, possibly, building-up of an export
capacity for petroleum; and (iv) more efficient use of fuel, conservation and
reduction of waste. In light of Argentina's high degree of petroleum self-
sufficiency and the Government's efforts to reduce inflation, gradual adjust-
ments of fuel prices towards achieving international prices appear justified.
An understanding has been reached with the Government that it will raise the
price of crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas, so as to enable YPF
and GdE to generate funds sufficient to service their debt and make a reason-
able contribution to their investments. Specifically, the Government has
indicated that it will continue to increase the price of petroleum products
and natural gas which, during the first four months of 1980 averaged 1.5% to
2% per month above the non-agricultural wholesale price index, or about 7% for
the first four months, so that in the long run they reach international price
levels.  On the basis of this recent experience and the Government's policy,
real price increases of 15% can be expected during 1980 which would enable YPF
and GdE to earn revenues sufficient to service their debt and to contribute
the funds required to finance, in the case of YPF, about one third of its
investment program, and in the case of GdE, about one half of its investment
program. The Government has also indicated that further price adjustments
would take into account international fuel price changes as well as the results
of the natural gas optimization and utilization study (para. 40), with the
expectation that both enities would service their debt and self-finance a
reasonable part of their investment programs.  The Bank also explained to the
Government that the financing of further projects in the petroleum sector
would depend on continued progress in dealing with the pricing issue.
Previous Bank Lending to the Energy Sector
43.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first in Argentina's
hydrocarbon sector. Energy-related lending by the Bank to Argentina up to
now has been entirely for electricity development. Six loans were made for
1/   Export prices of the Antillean refineries have been used as an indicator
of international prices.



- 15 -
this purpose during 1962-79 totalling US$617 million. The Bank made four
loans to SEGBA to help finance thermal generation plant, transmission, and
distribution, and one loan each to HYDRONOR and the Government, respectively,
for developing the Chocon and Yacyreta hydropower schemes. With its recent
lending for the power sector, the Bank helped Argentina to improve sector
organization and planning, a process which is continuing. Project Perform-
ance Audit Reports by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department have been
completed on the first four loans. 1/ The reports conclude that while the
projects largely met their physical objectives and have assisted in improving
efficiency of the borrowers, the financial objectives were not met. Hence, the
Bank held intensive discussions on this problem with the Argentine Government
during 1976 and 1977. A more realistic pricing policy which the Government
implemented in 1978 for all energy products including electric energy has
been adversely affected by the higher than expected inflation of 1979. As
a result, a new round of intensive discussions between the Government and
the Bank on electric sector finances is now underway. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) made five loans to GdE for gas transmission projects in
1971-79 totalling US$178 million.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
44.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
petroleum sector mission to Argentina in August 1979 and was appraised in
November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from May 9-13,
1980. The Argentine Delegation was headed by Mr. Jorge Fernando Scosceria,
Finance Director, YPF. Since this is an engineering project, a separate staff
appraisal report has not been prepared. Annex III contains supplementary data
on the project, Annex IV geological background and Annex V the description of
the Borrower.
45.       The proposed project is in response to a Government request to the
Bank for financial and institutional assistance in oil and gas sector develop-
ment. It is designed to support the Government's principal development
objectives for the sector, i.e., (a) achieving petroleum self-sufficiency
through the 1980s by accelerating exploration and production and by helping
in the strengthening of YPF's exploration and production departments; (b)
enhancing sector efficiency by helping increase private investment and
furthering rationalization measures on the part of YPF and GdE including,
through the reserves audit component, the provision of a better basis for
bidding exploration and production areas by private companies; and (c) laying
the basis for attaining more efficient fuel utilization and overall resource
allocation by studying the markets for expanded natural gas use, identifying
the needed investments in transport infrastructure, gas recycling, and storage,
and recommending pricing policies for liquid fuels and natural gas including
specific pricing actions during 1980.
1/   For Loans 308-AR and 525-AR, Report No. Z-17/1; for Loan 577-AR, Report
No. M76-772 of November 16, 1976; and for Loan 644-AR, Report No. M76-121
of February 27, 1976.



- 16 -
46.       Given the importance of a sound energy position for Argentina's
future economic development and the serious consequences of a decline in
petroleum production and recoverable reserves for the economy, which presently
is close to energy self-sufficiency, it is appropriate for the Bank to expand
its energy-related lending to the oil and gas sector. The issues facing the
petroleum sector are complex and have to be solved step-by-step. Lending
would start with the proposed engineering loan which, in both the public and
private sectors, could lead to a sequence of projects eligible for foreign
financing, including Bank financing, and action would be initiated on the
selected number of key issues discussed in para. 45.
Project Description
47.       The proposed engineering project consists of the following components:
(a) Auditing of Reserves - To date, only approximate methods have been
followed for calculating proven reserves and little effort has been
made to estimate the extent of probable and possible reserves.
Thus, an external audit by reputable consultants would be carried
out to rigorously determine crude oil, gas and condensate reserves
in the various producing areas in the country. The component con-
sists of detailed reservoir engineering studies, covering 44 major
reservoirs which, together with additional reservoirs currently
being audited in the Neuquen basin, comprise 90% of the country's
known reserves. The component will require 220 man-months including
field work, gathering of data and work in the home office over a
period of about two years as follows:
1.   (i)  determine proven secondary recovery oil reserves in
about nine reservoirs located in several basins through:
(a) reservoir engineering studies for implementing
enhanced recovery methods in oil fields operated by
YPF; (b) studies for water flooding; (c) forecast of
water injection and oil production rates; (d) studies of
optimum recoveries with various flood patterns and
injection rates; (e) studies to determine surface
facilities required; (f) economic review of the projects;
(g) estimates of capital requirements for injection
maintenance and workover expenditures; and (h) additional
studies as required to optimize gas and oil recoveries;
(ii) determine proven reserves for the five newly discovered
oil and gas reservoirs located in the Northwestern
basin, including an evaluation of probable and possible
reserves by statistical methods;
2.        revise and adjust calculations for a total of thirty
crude oil, gas, and condensate reservoirs, mainly in
the Southern basin, and in all other major reservoirs
not included in part 1. above.
(b) Seismic Surveys - Recent drilling in the Northernwestern basin has
demonstrated that important additional hydrocarbon accumulations
could be found in an area along the subsurface structural alignment



- 17 -
of the Devonian rocks which follow the sub-Andean folded belt.
However, the area of greatest interest, located immediately south of
the early discoveries and aligned with the Bolivian fields, does not
show a surface expression of the folded belt. For this reason it is
necessary to conduct a seismic survey over this area thus permitting
the accurate determination of the subsurface alignment of the
Devonian rocks where hydrocarbons have been found in the vicinity.
Financing by the Bank of this seismic survey is justified by the
good hydrocarbon potential of the area under consideration and the
contribution this survey would make to strengthening YPF's explora-
tion department and to attracting private investment in exploration.
The survey will consist of some 1,00C' km of seismic lines with
stakes placed 25 to 50 meters apart, a coverage of 2400 to 4800%,
20 to 40 holes per position at a depth of 1 to 3 meters and using
96 channels for recording. These stringent parameters are dictated
by the complicated geology, the ruggedness of the terrain, the dense
vegetation and the thickness of the weathering zone. The equipment
to be used is very light and helicopters will be used for transport
of equipment and supplies. The rate of progress is expected to be
50 km per crew-month.
(c) Study to Optimize the Use of Natural Gas - Some 30% of the output of
natural gas in Argentina is currently being flared, resulting in a
significant waste of energy resources while over 25% of consumption
is met through imports. With the aim of increasing efficiency of
energy use and accelerating the attainment of self-sufficiency in
energy, the Energy Secretariat will undertake a study on optimization
of natural gas use. This study will be carried out by consultants
and is expected to require some 160 man-months over a period of two
years. The study will analyze inter alia: (i) levels and structure
of pricing of liquid fuels and of natural gas; (ii) demand for
natural gas and competing fuels; (iii) options for disposition of
fuel oil surpluses either through exports or secondary processing
into lighter products; (iv) optimization of future refining expan-
sion and related investment requirements; (v) transport and storage
requirements for natural gas; and (vi) the scope for gas recycling
and reinjection and the optimum development of the gas fields. The
terms of reference have been discussed with the Government and are
being finalized.
The Borrower 1/
48.       YPF is by far the largest entity in the hydrocarbon sector and one
of the largest state oil companies in Latin America. It has a generally
adequate technical staff. However, after many years of haphazard growth as
a state monopoly, and subjected to frequent changes in Government policies
towards sector development, YPF has become overstaffed and inefficient and
was adversely affected by rapid turnover of top management. Significant
improvements have taken place since 1977. The management has stabilized,
1/   A more extensive discussion is presented in Annex V.



- 18 -
a creditable effort in staff reduction has taken place and more adequate in-
formation systems, including that for financial information, are being estab-
lished with the assistance of outside consultants. YPF's transformation from
a state enterprise to an autonomous public corporation, which occurred in 1978
will ease the implementation of further reforms. YPF's accounting system and
procedures were changed in 1978 from the Government budgetary system to
conventional financial accounting. Its financial statements are audited by
the Sindicatura General de las Empresas Publicas which is considered qualified
and independent. The 1977-78 audit reports still had a number of qualifica-
tions but YPF expects that for 1979, it will obtain a clean opinion from its
auditors. YPF would furnish the Bank its own accounts and project accounts
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
49.       YPF's financial position has been adversely affected by inadequate
prices for its products (which during the July 1978 - June 1979 period alone
declined by over one-third in real terms) and continuously high overheads.
With existing prices, and in the absence of major equity increases, the
entity's internal sources would finance only about 10% of projected investment.
In order to assure a more meaningful contribution to financing investment,
YPF's sales prices in real terms would have to be increased; and a satisfactory
agreement on this matter has been reached (paragraph 42). In line with growing
investment, future requirements for loan financing will increase. YPF's gross
borrowing requirements should be in the order of US$650-800 million per
annum during the next several years, and its annual debt servicing US$150-200
million.
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$49.6 million
equivalent including a foreign cost component of approximately US$27.0 mil-
lion equivalent (54% of project cost). Contingencies included in the estimate
amount to US$10.4 million equivalent (US$4.4 million for physical contingencies
and US$5.8 million for price escalations i.e., 11% and 15%, respectively of
the base project cost). Of these, the foreign price contingencies adopted are
10.5% in 1980 and 9% in 1981. Costs of the studies are based on US$14,000 per
man-month given the highly specialized nature of the expertise required and the
high cost of living in Argentina. The cost estimate by components (including
contingencies) is as follows:
US$ Million
Local Cost         Foreign Cost        Total
Auditing of Reserves              1.2                  3.2               4.4
Seismic Surveys                  20.8                21.4               42.2
Natural Gas Optimization
Study                           0.6                 2.4                3.0
Total                       22.6                27.0              49.6



- 19 -
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$27.0 million equivalent would be at
8.25% per annum interest for fifteen years including three years of grace.
The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed loan is shown in
the Loan and Project Summary. YPF would provide US$22.0 million from its own
internal resources, to cover local costs for seismic surveys and for the audit
of reserves component. Assurances have been given by YPF and the Government
that these funds will be made available (Section 3.01 of draft Loan Agreement).
YPF will onlend US$2.4 million of the loan, under terms satisfactory to the
Bank, to the Energy Secretariat which will undertake the study to optimize gas
utilization. The Government will provide the US$0.6 million required to cover
the local costs of this study (Section 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Implementation and Procurement
52.       The auditing of reserves and the seismic surveys components will be
administered by YPF with the assistance of foreign and local consultants and
contractors. The consultants for the reserves audit will be selected from a
"short list" acceptable to the Bank and their terms of reference will be
approved by the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The consul-
tants will also provide training to YPF staff. Similar arrangements will be
made for the gas utilization study. The area fDr the seismic surveys was
chosen by YPF's exploration department and has been visited by Bank staff.
Since the crews normally can work only in the dry season (May-October) the
work will not be completed until 1981. The seismic surveys will be carried
out by an internationally known geophysical contractor who already has been
selected under limited international tendering in accordance with industry
practice. Five well-known firms from two countries were asked to bid during
1978 for a seismic program in the Northwestern basins and the contract was
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder under cost-effective procurement. As
some of the areas originally envisaged for these surveys were subsequently
allocated to the private sector, YPF decided during January 1980 to apply the
existing contract to the work in 550 line-km of the project area and complete
the previously agreed work program, thus avoiding additional mobilization/
demobilization costs and taking advantage of the fact that there were no rains
earlier this year. These arrangements were mada satisfactorily with no real
increase in unit costs vis-a-vis the original bid. The contract will be
extended soon this year to cover the remaining 450 line-kilometers, to
complete the 1,000 line-kilometers of the projezt, under similar terms and
conditions (including lower unit costs) that shDuld be acceptable to the Bank
(Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The natural gas utilization
study will be administered by the Energy Secretariat, with YPF and GdE partici-
pating in its monitoring and assisted by local and foreign consultants. The
list of foreign consultants and the terms of reEerence for the study were
prepared by GdE, reviewed by the Bank, and have been agreed with the Secretariat
(Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Given these procedures, YPF
and GdE experience, and the technical assistanca that will be provided, no
major difficulties are envisaged in implementin,g the project which is scheduled
to be completed by end-1982.



- 20 -
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
53.       Because of the rainy season in the Northwestern basin (November-
April), and in order for YPF to have the drilling rigs on location by November
1980, the results of some of the seismic work must be available prior to that
date. Therefore, seismic crews started work in January 1980 under the arrange-
ments discussed in paragraph 52. These arrangements will last through March
1981 because of the need for consistency in data collection and processing to
allow a reasonable interpretation of drilling prospects in the relatively
small area. Similarly, some of the data for the audit of reserves is needed
promptly to facilitate the preparation by YPF of bidding documents for tender-
ing secondary recovery projects by private companies. This involves contracts
of about $1 million for reserve auditing. It is therefore proposed to approve
advance contracting to the extent of US$35 million equivalent 1/ (of which
US$18 million would be in foreign exchange) to cover the seismic services
contract and part of the reserves audit. Further, since some of the seismic
work would be carried out prior to loan approval, it is proposed that retro-
active financing of up to $5.0 million (i.e., some 19% of loan disbursements)
be approved to cover expenditures under the advanced contract, incurred from
January 1980. As the proposed loan is an engineering loan whose purpose is
to prepare subsequent projects, this high level of advance contracting and
retroactive financing is justified.
Disbursements
54.       Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made against appropriate
documents for 51%, representing the estimated foreign exchange costs, of
expenditures for seismic surveys, and 100% of the foreign expenditures for
the reserve audit and the study to optimize the use of natural gas.
Prolect Benefits and Risk
55.       Benefits to be derived from the proposed project are:  (i) improved
knowledge of the productive potential of the hydrocarbon sector, facilitating
the planning of future sector development; (ii) attraction of private invest-
ment to the area where the seismic survey is undertaken; and (iii) improved
use of Argentina's energy potential, especially with regard to natural gas.
Considering the deleterious consequences which increased hydrocarbon imports
would have on the country's balance of payments, all options for increasing
oil and gas output and for enhancing efficiency of energy use should be
evaluated. Specifically, the seismic survey will permit the accurate deter-
mination of the subsurface alignment and thus, define the potential for hydro-
carbon accumulations in the Porcelana-Rio Seco area of the Northwestern basin.
If favorable structures are found, YPF can immediately follow up with explor-
atory drilling in search for new reserves. The reserves audit will help
overcome planning problems and obstacles to field development caused by the
absence of firm data on reserves and thus, will improve and strengthen sector
knowledge, planning and development. The study to optimize the use of natural
gas will provide the basis for improved energy utilization in the economy.
1/   Consisting of the seismic surveys component and a part of the auditing
of reserves component, excluding contingencies.



- 21 -
Moreover, the proposed project would help attract private investment. The
seismic survey and reserve audit will provide improved information to private
companies for bidding on exploration and field development. The gas utiliza-
tion study will indicate the Government's commitment to develop markets and
infrastructure for gas whose discoveries are likely to be more plentiful than
those of oil. The proposed loan thus could lead to subsequent projects suit-
able for Bank and IFC financing.
56.       The reserve audit and gas utilization study components are virt .Ily
risk-free as competent consultants would be selected.  For the gas utillzfgtion
study, there is a risk of not having its recommendations implemented eftectively.
However, the results of this study will be reviewed with the Bank and thei.r
implementation would be closely followed up in the course of subsequent
energy-related activities. The seismic survey of the Northwestern basin
carries the risk that subsurface structures favorable for hydrocarbon accumu-
lation will not be found, but the presence of a continuous folded belt
throughout the Northwestern Basin and the results of recent drilling elsewhere
in the basin make this unlikely. Another risk relates to the quality of
seismic data. However, since field-gathering and interpretation will be made
by a highly specialized and reputable contracting firm and adequate super-
vision on part of YPF can be expected, this risk will be minimized to the
extent feasible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Yacimientos Petroliferos
Fiscales, the draft Guarantee Agreement between The Argentine Republic and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the proposed loan are
listed in Section II of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 4, 1980



ANNEX I
- 22-                                              Page 1 of 5
ARClNINA - SOCIAL INDtCATORS DATA SKEET
ARGENTINA                  REFERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AjjRAGES
LAND AREA (TRtOUSANDsQ. m.)                        ~- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           2766.9                                                   SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL    1786.0                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRCWHIC   ENCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      RZGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /.
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 600.0       1050.0   1910.0           1124.4      1942.6      3075.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALDIT)    1129.0       1703.0    1804.0           943.1     1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-TEAR (MILLIONS)     20.6        23.7       26.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 73.6         78.4     80.5             59.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       33.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         41.0
TAR  STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.4         9.0        9.1            23.5       28.2         33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICU'LTuRAL LAND    12.0        13.0       15.0            50.5      100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 TRS.                         30.7         29.3      29.0            40.9       35.4         33.3
15-64 TRS.                         63.7        63.7      63.0             54.4       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   5.6         7.0        8.0             3.9        5.1          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TMTAL                              1.8         1.4        1.3             2.4        1.7         2.1
URBAN                              2.6         2.0        1.9             3.7        3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0         22.5       21.0            32.8       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0         8.6        8.0             8.5        9.1          8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.5          1.5       1.4             2.4        1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOesEN)    ..         ..        ..             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          86.2        101.0     109.7            99.4      102.0        98.7
PER CAPrTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREOUNTS)                  115.0       129.0    129.0             107.0      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          98.0        99.0      107.1            60.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       54.0        64.0      68.5             28.3       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      6.0         4.0        3.0             6.7        5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TARS)    65.0         67.4       71.0            63.6       65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *         59.0         *-            76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        56.0       66.0            63.4       69.4        73.9
URBAN                               ..        69.0       76.0            79.5       85.1        94.6
RURAL                               ..        12.0       26.0            38.6       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
MOTAL                               ..        85.0       97.0            58.8       70.1          ..
URBAN                               ..        87.0      100.0            77.8       88.3
RURAL                               ..        79.0       83.0            24.5       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           660.0       500.0    530.0            1841.9     1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       980.0        ..            933.7      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            160.0       170.0        ..            563.4      197.6       240.6
URBAN                               ..       140.0        ..            279.4      260.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           1140.9     1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             25.7       17.3         19.2
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.7         3.8         ..             5.0        4.7
URBAN                              3.5           .4 ..                    4.8        4.4
RWRAL                              4.3          ..        ..              5.3        5.1
AVERAGE NUFIBER OF PERSONS PER BOOM
TOTAL                              1.4         1.4         ..             1.3        L.1
URBAN                              1.3          1.4       ..              1.3        1.2
RURAL                              1.7           ..       ..              1.5        1.2
A,CCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                             69.0        76.0       79.0/f          54.3       66.0
8RBAN                             S4.7           .         ..            80.1       85.1
.RURAL                            19.3           ..       ..             14.2



ANNEX I
- 23-                                      Page 2 of 5
ARG&NTINA - SOCIL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARCENTINA                 iLEuRNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AjGES
- MOST RECENT ESTL'SAT) -
SI;E        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECE!n     ZOCRAPUC    7NCOtm        INCOME
196  /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  CROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 96.0       106.0     108.0            107.3     101.7        107.6
aALS                 98.0       105.0     106.0            109.1     110.0
FEMALE               99.0       107.0     108.0           107.4       92.8
SECONDAAT:  TOTAL                 32.0        37.0      56.0            60.5       51.2         39.7
MALE                 31.0        35.0      52.0            40.4       56.4
PuA                  33.0        40.0      60.0            39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I Of StCONDA1Y) 50.0         59.0      63.0             18.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACMR IRATIO
PRIuARY                           22.0        19.0      18.0            37.1       27.1
SECONDARY                          7.0         7.0       8.0            17.9       75.3
ADllT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       91.0        93.0      93.0             77.4      96.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        24.0        61.0      81.0            29.1       53.4        6S.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TIHOUSAND
POPULATION                       176.0       370.0     838.0           172.1      225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        21.0       144.0     180.0            67.9      102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAtLY GCERAL
ITREST") ClRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                155.0       179.0     147.0            76.1       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCS PER CAPIA  7.0          2.0       3.2             4.2         3.6
LABOR FORCL
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8134.0       9216.0   10020.0
FEtALE (PERCENT)                  21.4        24.7      25.6            21.5       24.5        27.2
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             20.0        15.0      14.0            30.2       28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                35.9        32.1      29.0            23.8       30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.5        38.8      38.6            30.9       33.8         40.1
MALE                                61.0        58.1      57.3            47.3       51.3         55.7
FEMALE                              17.2        19.3      19.8            13.3       16.3         24.7
ECONtOMIC DOPENDENCY RATIO             0.9         0.9       1.0             1.5        1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTtON
PERCEiT oF PRlVATE INCco1
RECEIVED BY
HITGEST 5 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS   27.5          ..        ..            23.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS  50.9        50.3        ..           5s.7        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    6.9         4.4        ..             2.9        3.4.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS   16.6        14.1        ..             9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPrTA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           265.6
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           185.1
ESTM^ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAmN                              ..          ..     653.0           396.3      550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    577.0            308.1      '03.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION 5ELOUW SOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCT)
MRBAN                               ..          ..        ..            35.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            46.6
.ot available
Not applicable.
NOTEs
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excXuding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the aost populated councry in each gsoup. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifom.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most lecent Estimate, betwen 1974 and 1977.
/c    Latin America S Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 ;er capita, 1976);  fe 'tigh Income
(over S2500 par capita, 1976); /f percent of population.
host Recanc Esctiate of GNP par capita is for L978.
August. 1979



- 24 -                                                  ANNEX I
DIFzNnTO  w  SCOTAL nWlmICAORS                                    Page   3  of   5
Notas: Alth.ugh the data are d-a fro  aouea  generally Judged the meat _nthoritati_ and reliable, it should, alo be noted that they aY not ha intern-
timll.y cosoerable fleeas. of the lack of' standardized defiaitiens and ocunoPt.used hy different coun tries in collecting the dat.. The data are, nocethelee,
useful to describe ordes- of meagitude, indicate treade, wAn charecteriae certain Majo) differences between countries.
The.    ie          srEs fo- seekh indicator are popsl,ation-ieghted geometric means, enoinding the cots-se  o-lues of the indicator end the wet populated
conryi  tehgop   ieto lack of date., grop avrages of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Pyportera sod of indicator  of Access to Water end t-crta
Piepsea, Osoeeg, Inome Piarihutio end  crertyfor other country groups ar  population.-ieghted geastric means without encios- of the ectrome vausad
tie meet populated coutry.Sicthcosaef countries  agthe indicatore decendes on ailahilty o.,f dat,aced is cot unidorm,.vautloc m-st t. exerised
in Ietlat-uvrgs ofee indicaitor to soothe.-Toenesae  aretins,t.. osfc  me norcevcs  f"oetdrelis  h                                    -coparto  the valis  of 0nc
indicetorataim  swag th   ountry end referece cs-cuca.
LAIM AREA (thousaand aqgke.)                                                           Aeces_to.Tceafipsl(ereto   suais   totl.uran  ad rra  -
Total - Total surface areaecomprising land ares and inlan  waters.                        heof people  toa,chn,ndralsevdyeeeadiposal as
&  ltt Wal- Hot recent etsate, of agricutural area used teiporarily                  pereesteges of their repective popsulationa. icereta diepesa, eey i.eluds
orpsaetyfor crpe, pasetures, market sad kitchen gardens or te                the colletion sad disposal, with or sithout treatmet, o f huma   -reta
l1ie tahce,.                                                                          and eets-sterhrbete-sen   ystems or the ass of pit pr-ivies and eIlar
- N       mpecpthdaestiae  atl Bm rrnt  marke  prcs,             7Pulation -r PgAoiin  - bPolat ion divided by numher of practicing phyaiciane
cal6olsi970 by ass. covrion mehda   oldRn   ta  (93f   ais;                            j7f6 fr.iimeiiMa1 school at university levsi.
1960, i970, end i977 data.                -                    ~~~~psuajaulo  nor kis-sla  parson - Ppoplation divdide  hy aster of practicing sale
]am    eim   9  Fn CPITA- dAmsel ...nsupi-n ofomercial senergy                    And reale  grasmata nurses, practical acrs-se, and assistant curse..
to."lsAmigate,trolae , ntua  gas   d bydra-, unclear ass gee-                         bsuato         gsttlRd   oal  rhnad ral-Populatioa (total, urban,
thsemal elettloity)LA kilogrm  of Seal equivlent per capita; 1960,              and  rura )  diide  ytherrsetv'ae   fhsia                         aalbei
i970, sad 1976 sdt..                                                                    Pubic end private general end spaialised hostpital and rehahiiitation renters.
Hospitals are estbhlibsnts permanently staffed by at least ose pkysiei-n
PPUUI  AnD VALSTATlITIC S                                                              stahlieadmats providing Principally ouatodial care are not included. Rural
TatalPsnmletldIdKYear (imahon) - As of July 1; i960, 1970, and                          hospitals, howevr, Lluclde health and Medical Center-s nOt permanently staffed
1977 dte.                                                                            by a physician (hbut by .a mdical assistant, ours., midwife, etc.) tich offer
Urba Poulation (pecet of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                 ia-patient accommodation sad provide a limited rasge, of maGical failities.
difeet defiiton  of os-ha areas may affect comprability of date.                 AS4siRjprjopl2"                Ttanutber of admissions to or discharges fro
sa    onre;1960, 1970, and 1973 data.                                       te1tirIliC IEntr of bd"s.
-  ,- Curret Population projection  ar  based cm             wxUs3M
A97Vstatl Ppujlation by age and see and their mertelity and fertility             Aes Risel oI11f&Woseehod (os-sosprhushl)-tta.we.ed rural -
rates. Prejoctiss paraenters for mortality rates comrise of thee.                  A househol  cossso      ru            niiul   b   hr   iigquarters and
eslo.sassesSing life espeoteney At birth Smeesin  with cowtry a                    their main meaLs. A hoarder or lodger may or sq not be included in the
Pee caPita income level, end fainL life enpeetamoy ts       IItelse   at           hcouseold for statistical Purposes.
773years.  The p%eraters for fertility cats aleso have three lsa,ls           Avers  mashe of_persons pr roo  -total whnadrua  - Average masar
asaKift declime in fertility accordIng to anvm,s level and pest                    of person  pr os  in         ubn   n   ua         sIed cnvetional dellings,
fealty pleading perfrormae. task country Is then asaigned -on  of these            respectively,  Desilioge eoide css-peessnent structures and unoccupied parts.
sine tutimations of mertality end fertility trends for projection                Aola toScr        piy(oret of delns     oa.we.ndrrl-Cn
puross..ctoa  dealing   wtelcrity   I Liigqarter  as perceotegs of
9fllpAtiM     u,gioa -          -S    ttionery population ther  Is no growth         total, orban, and rural dwelLings respectively.
rtisequal to thLe death rate, and also, the age
structure remains constant. ThLis is achieved cay after fertility rates        EIsr-ATION
decline to the replacment Leve  of unit ne reproduction rate, when             -MwdE-lmtPatios
each generation of seme  replsca itself exactly.  The stationery poPe-              E1=l§ :2EStll7totE l  anI           eae- Gross total, male and female enroll-
lation size was satiated so the heels of the projected okaracterietios               seto  alae  a  h  pIay Lel as percentages of respective primary
of the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility              choni-age populations.; normally inclodes children aged6A-Li Years hut
rate to repLacmet level.                                                             adj1usted for differet lengths of primary edocatico; for countries sith
Tear statiosary Population i  reached - The pear she  stationary population            osirersal educatioc enrollment say exeed 150 percent eioce some peptics
sios hue been reachd.                                                                are he1   or shove the official school age.
P.-Iti ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~eonD                         Scday school - total, aeadfml  - Compted as ahov; seonedary
Feifi    M    IoffiA-year population per squer  kilometer (LOS hateres) of               dedction require  at LatV Co  years oapproved primar  instructiot;
tot   araproides genera - uatonlor teacher training instructioa. for Pupils -
Pa ks.h. Acricultu-rL lend - Computed as shove for agricultural Land               usuLly of 12 to 17 year  of age; cer-epondeoe  orss  r  generally
EquUation As. Structure (Percent) - Children (0-Lb years),  origaeVoceticone enrollment (percet of secondary) - Vocationa Ilointitutions  -Inclde
(13.61 years)J, and retired (h5 years end over) as percentages of aid-year             techoical, industrial, or other programs skidc operate independently or us
population; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                  departments of secondary institutions.
Peoulation Growth Rats (pecnt   total - Anmasl. eroth rates of total mid.               Ne1il-echrrtio-piar.aAeaodr    Total etodats em.eolld to
yeer popo&lat.o. for 1950-60, 19h0-70, and 1970-77.                                     prmrnn eodr   eesdvddb   usere of teachersa to tieocre
Pfoplation GrwhPte (ercet)      hen - Annual  reeth, rates of urban                       speeding levels.
populaions  or 199-60,  9h0-70  and1970-75.                                 A litlterw  rate    coer s    L iter-ate adults (able to rend end o-its) as
Cr,d    t,    r thousand)   Annual Live births per thousand of mid-                 aperetg  ott aut population aged iS years and over.
sall17"    d 1977 data.
cfpj~aj,pr5ong)- Amosa deathe par thousand of mid-year                             CONSUPTNyf S
at on;  , 1      and  977 data.                                         Sasseage- Car  4pe  tho-snd copulaion) - Passenger care comprise ector cars
Gross Pesrodatios Pate,   Averag  number of deoghtera a oe   ill hear                  saIng less thsneih  pesos;seLue  smiulance., eresad military
to her normal reproductive period if she coperisnees pre....t age-veiLs
speci fic fartIlity rates; -u-n-lly five-year avrages ending In 1phi,              Rdl Reeivers (herthusad cowalatios) - All typos of r-civera for radio
190,ad 1975.                                                                      bracat  to  eAr            Mcohi  per thousand of population; excludes oslicenee,
Fuily  lausind - WEthousads),- Annual comber of                               recivere in coutrice and io years  hea -egiotration of radio cot en  to 
ace  tore of brth -ctr deis   Pne  u  ics of catio..al family                        effect; data for-recet yearsmay cot he coparble since mast cosotries
plnigpro-am.                                                                     abolished licensing.
d:mluPLanin  - ser plorcetofmr-id smn)-Prcentag  of mass-ied                 TV Peeovor (pe thousanNjedpounio  -v T  rcivers for, h sdast togera
an  ofchildhearig age~l5-b  yea .)  b  use birth-cotruI devices               puioprtosn   ouaion; elde   nicese  TV rcivere isccuncr-ie
to all maried see  ins sam  age group.                                               and In year  she  ragistratin of TV seats was teffect.
FOOP AND IURTO                                                                           eepprCruato    e  husn   ossicf -Shw  th  avrg   icltio
of   all  geera  toerst  eweapo  ,  efiedas a per.iodcal puklilation
ine  Nr- oo  srostc   e   a  t  L677-O)-Od   fprcpita                             dewted primarily to recording geceral ses        It is conidered to he 'daily
anaprdcIonoFodordte    rodustc Iecciude". eed and                             If It appears at least fou  times n wek.
fedadis on calendar Yearbai -           aditles cover primary goods                fineAna   tednsprfot  e- er-he   ntectro  ikt
(.g. sueran  intead of sugar) ohich ar esdihle and ccntain nutrients                acddrn   h   ec   ncuigamsin   odrv-ooa.   n    hl
(ag  . cffee end tea  -r  excluded). Aggregte peedusotion of each country           units..tdi-i   iam-d bl.
isbased on national avrage producer-piewghs
Parceit sosy  f alries (percent ofIl rqirentt) - Coated from               LUmip PORC
aeer  eqIvle        t o   e  fo   upie   -ilable in country per capita           Tota  micer Forc   thousand) - tEc.ooical-ly active per-sons, including armda
per day. A-ailabla supplies comprise domestic production, imports Thea             df-. and onspIoycd but ...iuding housewive, students, etc. Defioliti...
asports, and  baengse n istock.  Net supplies aeclude animal feed, .. seed,        in vaious countries are cot comarble -
quantities used in food processing, and lcose.s in distribution. Peqire-         F.-I. Percent) - Female labor forc  as percentage of total labor- force
mos we-c estimated by PAO based ca phrsiologiosl ...eds for so-sa                 1id.ltril        "et ) - Labor fo-c  to farming, forestry, hunting and
activity nod heal th Ioonn-Idoring cc,-oa   cqrsace   oy vehs                      fshn  so Percentage of total 150cr force 
age, and sea distributions of population, and slowing 10 paerent for -           j9f          ro)-lbor- force tomning  -ontructlco, asnufooturing and
.asu. at household Leve.                                                           e ec_trici    ctatr- end gas as percentage of tota1lLabor for-c.
per cacita supolr of orttei. (gram  par day) - Protein cotent of per               Patciaio-at   eret) - total   ae t    eae-participation or-
capita net Supply offndpr day. Ret npply of food is defined as                     ativity rates are coeputed as total   ae   o   eaeLbrfrea   e-
shove  Rqqiremosta o.    1  cotsl   e  etablished hy USDA peceid fora              ceotages of total1, Male end female population of all ages reapectivly;
aczlaae alloanc  of do go-as of total protein per day and 20 grx  of               1960, 1970, end 19735 data.  These are 11,0e partiipatins rates refLecting
animal sand pulse protcin, of ohioh 10 grama  should is semI protain.              age-_ struture of tie P.pulato, enO long time, cr-sd.  A few estimates
The.sstatndards are l-osr thantoeo-         5gm  ttoalpotinad                       r  fro  notional sucs
53 gre  of animal ptoisia  an are-age for the es-ild, proPosed by lAO             k-slnndnyPtio -RPatio of population under i  and 65 and veer to
Io the  hr   cr1t-Id od Surey,                                                     th  lbo  frc     age group of 15-64 years -
Pe-cpt  rtin oupi frM   ianIa end P.ls  - Protein cipply of food
derived fue toimalo sdpue  Icases t-  did.                                     ioCM  DIffPIYIOR
Child age 1.) tc.l Iate  rtboond    Annual ieaths tsr ticucend                       Preoaofria" teoom btoxvtianknd                            Oucedyrchs
in go roce1- yore  c  clt-c  Lo thic see crcpg        o   0 Ot1                     pa;r-sot,rich-est 20  era   pors OPercont, and poo-ct -.0 Fc-cern
opiog  -tnntv  iota derived fro  life tablee.                                        of housoholde.
l'fe Especcancy atAi-byas-iveA_pv  -mtr of fear. -f life                             Loonr houe vivery Coool-vl10  ce  apv.-  cbo o   url
remaicing at binth; idb, d90  to 977. inca                                            AbscItc poverty tca         o  Ictotl     _melvl  vi:fs eIiot a   -toal
Cc!ant dur-tauty Omit. per Cho-snod) - Ancual deaths of intents under ot               outritiooaily adequat  di et  lca  -oeta   o-food -equir-eoto  so
Year of age per- thcuxand live hirth..                                                uffor-dable.
Pusher of pecpe  total, to-ba   and roso-al)  tt  emaabln000  toa        0-lRelative povrty in -ce, level  Ic oaver-t itdouces-oeeopi
oaf, veter supply  cooe  trae -ufao. eaters or inrne                 tper.-eoa  income of the o-ot-,. Jrcan lo--l Ic c-io-o fr-o  the  ccl level
-tcimiae   etr ouh as tint from protected borhtolen  spring.,                 eittih jsietfor- tigher coo t ofli viog  -o orhan areas
and usiti-7 echo) as P-eetagee of their ...spoetiv- p-olotio-.                      Et istimtd  Po,o,cioSc  Abso'lot    e-yCme  leve jereri     ,b-e coo
an uban  r-esa pblicfuti  oraooot located sot anr  than 25                        ua      e-en   fpplto   icbntdtua)cl   r    hs  uePoo-.
meters from a louse cay be ocasideved as being within reasnonble  ccs
of that house, In rurl area. reasonable acoisi would imly that the
housecife or meter, of the household is cso leav  to epeed a diepe-opor-                                                   -oomcsd Social Data Dinoios.
ticai  pert of tie day in fetching she SW_ly s ottr sleds..Eo i  Analysts and Proinoti... Dparcte-t



-25 -                                                  ANE  I
Page 4 of 5
E C O N O M I C D 1 V E L O P M e N T D A T A
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                             Actual                       Projected
_______________                            ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1970-  1979-
1976       1977        1979 a"    1980         19S5       1976      1985     1976       1979      1985
Annual Growth
Millions of US$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate               Rates              As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            53,484      56,240      59,886      60,906      77,004       3.3      4.8      100.7      99.2      98.6
Gains from Terms of Trade t+)       -385        -293         428         938       1 065       3.3        -        -.7'       .8       1.4
Gross Domestic Income             53,-099     55,947      60,314      61,844      78,069                4.8      100.0    100.0    100.0
Import Goods and NFS               3,837       4,456       7,243       8,999      11,993      13.1     10.9        7.2      12.0      15.4
Export Goods and NFS              -4.996      -6.841      -7,899      -8,633      10697        9.7      5.9       -9.4    -13.1    -13.7
-Resource Gap                     -1,159      -2,385        -656         366       1,296                  -       -2.2      -1.1       1.7
Consumption Expenditures          41,157      41,847      45,812      48,186      61,594       3.3       5.7      77.7      76.0      78.9
Investment Expenditures           10,685      11,720      13,846      14,023      17,770       5.0      4.7       20.2      23.0      22.8
Domestic Savings                  11,844      14,022      14,502      13,658      16,474       4.5      2.3       22.3      24.0      21.1
National Savings                  11,440      13,535      13,578      12,413      14.664       3.6      1.3       21.4      22.5      18.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                       Annual Date at Current US$                                                  As Percent of Total
imports
Capital Goods                     500         874       2,247       3,502       7,196       -         -        18        34.3      38.9
Intermediate Goods              1,870       2,402       3,418      4,292       9,159         -        -        61.3      52.1     49.5
Petroleum & Products              560         584        496          572        549        -         -        18.4       7.6      3.0
Consumption Goods                  70          98         398         853       1592        -         -         2.3       6.0       8.6
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)    3,050         3,958       6,559       9,219      18,496        -        -       100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products                2,807       3,842       6,778      8,178      14,868        -         -        74.6      86.8     87.6
Manufactured goods                956    1,495  1, 027            1.158        2             -        -        25.4      13.2      12.4
Total Merch.Exports (f.o.b.)       3,763       5,337       7,805       9,336      16,964        -        -       100.0    100.0    100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1978 = 100
Zxport Price Index                    83          91         127         147         212
Import Price Index                    83          97         118         128         187
Terms of Trade Index                  95          99         109         115         113
VALUE-ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate
Agriculture                        6,365       6,749       7,235       7,452       9,512      3.0       5.3       11.9      12.1      12.4
Industry and Mining               20,805      23,621      27,677      28,230      3f,363      6.9       5.2       38.9      46.2      47.2
Services and others               26.314     25,870       24.974      25,224     31.129        .5       4.1       49.2      41.7     40 4
Total                             53,484     56,240       59,886      60,906      7;,004      3.4       4,8      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                    Annual Data at Current Prices                                                      As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)  ;                 billions of $a
Current Receipts                 ,984       3,040      18,319                                         -        12.3      13,1
Current Expenditures              903       2,183     15,089                                          -        11.3     10.8
Budgetary Savings                  81         857       3,230                                                   1.0       2.3
Transfers (net)                  -483        -724     -1,641                                          -         6.1       1,1
Investment                        343         920       3,840                                         -         4.3       2.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                 1965-       1970-       1975-       1980-
(Calculated from 3-yr. av. data)  1970          1975        1980        1985
Average ICOR                         4.4         6.9         6.8         3.7
Import Elasticity                    1.1         0.9         1.4         1.3
Marginal Domest.Savings Rate-(%)  26.7          10.6        43.7        24.5
Marginal Nat'l Savings Rate (%)   23.2          16.2        44.5        24.9
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER                    LABOR FORCE                                    VALUE-ADDED PER WORKER IN 1975  PRICES
WORKER                                                                                       AND EXCHANGE RATE
In millions  In % of Total   Annual Growth Net           In US$         Percent of Av.    Growth
1970    1975   1970   1975          1970/7-5             1970   1975    1970   1975         1970/75
Agriculture                     1,474   1,420      16      14          - 0.7             3,357  3,575        81     79         1.2
Industry                        2,948   2,941      32      29            0.0             5,407  6,842       131    150         4.5
Services                        4.790   5,779      52      57            3.8             4 140  3,618       100     80        -2.4
TOTAL                           9,213  10,140    100    100              1.0             4 133  4,551      T55    TO  --
MONEY AND PRICES                                1976        1977        1978
(billions of $a
Money Supply (Ml)                  330.6    1,259.9    3,080.0    7,742.9
M1+ time deposits (M2)             409.7    1,838.4    6,254.2   17,169.3
Ml as % of GDP                      23.3        15.8        14.5        14.8
M2 as % of GDP                      28.9        23.0        29.4        32.8
CPI Index (1974=100)               270.6    1,472.2    4,063.7   11,873.8
a change CPI index                 619.6      444         176         192
a/ The 1977-1979 changes reflect to a large extent the real appreciation of the exchange rate during 1978/79,



- 26-                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                                               Estimated              Projected
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978               1979             1980         1985
Exports (incl. NFS)                 2,389       3,799       4,761       3,669       4,668       6,769       7,689              9,279            10,997       19,803
Imports (incl. NFS)                -2,222      -2,633      -4,218      -4,517      -3,584      -4,892      -4,901            -8.428            -11,325      -21,722
lesource Balance                          167      1,166       1,543        -848       1,084       1,877       2,788                851              -328       -1,919
Net Interest Payments                -323       -382         -388        -425        -464        -370        -387              -526               -213         -952
Direct Investment Income               -60       -77          -35         -16         -28        -208        -292                -30              -160         -365
Other Factor Service Income             -3         4             7           1          2         -40        -136                -55               -60          -85
5et Factor Service Income               -386       -455         -416        -44D        -490        -618        -815               -611              -433       -1,402
urrent Transfers (net)                    -4         10          -             5         18          31          48                 50                 50           68
Balance on Current Account              -223        721          127      -1.283         611       1.290       2,021                290              -712       -3,253
Private Direct Investment                  10         10         10          -           -           146         290                350               500          805
Official Capital Grants                    10         26         17             98                   -           -                  -                 -            -
Public M&LT Leans (net)                   205       364         228          -6B       1,319         356       1,350                207               241          20O
Disbursements                          522       832         776          44B       1,908       1,064       2,910                340               415          610
Amortizaticn                         -317       -468        -548         -516        -590        -708      -1,560               -133              -174         -350
Other M&LT Loans (net)                     51        -29          28           -3       -159          519        309                951               318        1,393
Disbursements                          101        71         244          405         268       1,059       1,328             2,489              2,071        3,529
Amortizatimn                          -50       -100        -216         -408        -427        -540      -1,019            -1,538             -1,753       -2,136
Short-term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                     82      -444        -339          275       -1,814         31      -1,558              2,499               -            -
Change in Reserves
t- - increase)                       -195       -865          44          854       -1.157    -2.227      -1,998             -4,297               -346          795
Level of Gross Reserves                   465      1,330       1,286          432       1,589      3,816       5,814             10,111            10,457        9,800
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Offitial Grants & Grant-Like          -           -                       -            -           -           -                 -                 -            -
Public M6LT Loans
IBRD                               -           -           -           -            115        205         165
Other Multilateral                  92         57           1          177          165        148         230
Bilateral                           82         42         519           42          146        117          74
Suppliers                          118        116         535          307          196        363         339
Financial Institutions             390        156         488          126          970        754       1,445
Bonds                              120         65         290          200          207         93         146
Total Public MQT Loans             802        436       1,833          852        1.803      1.680       2,399
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding &
Disbursed                           2,368      2,792       3,046        2,901        4,251      4,836       6,791
Interest on Public Debt               156        199         233          250          258        308          37
Repayments on Public Debt             317        468         548          516          589        708       1,560
Total Public Debt Service             473        667         781          766          847      1,016       1,597
Other Debt Service                    174        244         408          626          659        602       1,369
Total Debt Service                    647        911       1,189        1,392        1,506      1,618       2,966
BURDEW ON EXPORT EAR8TNC: (7.)
Public Debt Service                    19.8       17.6        16.4         20.9         18.1       15.0        20.8
Total Debt Service                      27.1      24.0        25.0         37.9         32.3       24.0        38.6
TDS + Dir. Inv. Income                  29.6      26.0        25.7         38.4         32.9       27.0        42.4
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as % P-ior Year D0&D               8.3        8.4         8.3          8.2          2.9       11.6        11.8
Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D             16.9      19.8        19.6          16.9        20.3       36.7        19.7
IBRD Debt Outat. & Disbursed          256        302         340          341          342        342         352
IBRD as I of Public Debt 0&D           10.8       10.8        11.2         11.8          8.0        7.1         5.7
IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                   5.1        4.6         4.5          5.6          5.1        2.2         3.2
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)          Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1978
Disbursed Only                 Percent
IBRD                                        352                         5.2
Other Multilateral                          552                         8.1
Bilateral                                   728                        10.7
Suppliers                                1,575                         23.2
Financial Institutions                   2,618                        38.5
Bonds                                       966                        14.3
Total Public MELT Debt                       6,791                       100.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK .OANS
(As of April 30, 1950)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan No.   Year          Borrower           Purposa         Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                           409.8
505       1968         Argentina           Livestock            15.3          0.8
733       1971         Ferrocarriles       Railways             56.5          0.8
Argentinos S.A.
1330        1977        SEGBA, S.A.         Power               115.0         77.4
1384        1977        Argentina           Highways            105.0         98.2
1463        1978        Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit            100.0         76.4
1521        1978        Argentina           Grain Storage       105.0        104.4
1564        1978        Argentina 1/        Agricultural
Credit            60.0         60.0
1677        1979        Ferrocarriles 2/  Railways
Argentinos S.A.                        96.0         96.0
1761        1979        Argentina 3/        Yacyreta Power    210.0          210.0
Total                                             1,272.6        724.0
Of which has been repaid                            172.2
1,100.4
Amount sold                        12.8
Of which has been repaid           7.7                5.1
Total now held by Bank                            1,095.3
Total undisbursed                                                724.0
1/   Cancelled in full as of April 14, 1980 at Government's request.
2/   Effective as of May 6, 1980.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business       Loans       Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960    Acindar Industria            Steel Products          3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper            3.0          -        3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de         Automotive              1.5         -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.        Transmission
1962    PASA, Petroquimica           Petrochemicals         3.0          -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper           12.5         -       12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.        Steel Products        17.0          -      17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.        Printing and           5.0         2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                    5.5         -        5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.          Textiles & Fibers       7.0         -        7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                   Soybean Processing   9.0            -        9.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.                 Pulp and paper         8.0          -        8.0
1978    Juan Minetti, S.A.           Cement and
Construction
materials              9.0         -        9.0
1978    Ipako-Industrias             Chemicals and
Petroquimicas               Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                    10.0         -       10.0
1979    Alpesca S.A.                 Fisheries              5.2         0.5      5.7
Total Gross Commitments                            99.4        2.5    101.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                               44.8        2.0      46.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 54.6         0.5      55.1
Total Undisbursed                                  21.3          -      21.3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTtON
(As of April 30, 198')
Loan 505-AR    Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31,
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date:
July 31, 1980.
Lending to ranchers was slow from loan effectiveness until 1970,
then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services improved.
From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisEactory and a substantial
amount of the loan was disbursed but slowed up again in 1974. After the
change in Government in 1976, conditions for beef cattle development in
Argentina improved for some time but recently the agricultural investment
climate has deteriorated as a result of the Government's foreign exchange
policies. The Bank loan has been about 96% committed and is expected to
be fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan 733-AR    Railway Project, US$84.0 million loan of April 28, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
It became clear in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be
implemented because of the socio-economic situation of the country. On July
2, 1974, US$27.5 million was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to
finance procurement committed by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974.
After having come to a standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum.
The last of 59 contracts for Bank-financed goods were signed in May 1976.
About $0.8 million still undisbursed will be cancelled soon.
Loan 1330-AR   Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of local cost
requirements during 1978 and 1979, the overall execution of the project has
been delayed by about 15 months. This delay, however, does not significantly
affect the economic viability of the project. The project is proceeding
according to a revised schedule prepared in December 1979.
Loan 1384-AR   Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The civil works component has been delayed by about two years
because of the Government's efforts during 1978 and 1979 to reduce public
expenditures. All 48 civil works contracts have been tendered, 47 have
been awarded and work has started in most of them. Other project components
are being implemented satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1463-AR   Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The credit component of the project is proceeding somewhat behind
schedule because of a lag in overall industrial investment. Commitments
increased recently and so far about US$30.0 million have been committed.
BANADE's financial condition remains sound and management has begun taking
important steps for further strengthening of its organization and procedures.
Loan 1521-AR   Grain Storage Project; US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Consultants for project execution were contracted in October 1978
and preliminary designs for the project silos have been evaluated. In June
1979, the Government requested that the responsibility for project silo
construction and operation be transferred from the public sector (JNG) to the
private sector and also that silo capacity be reduced from 100,000 tons to
about 50,000 tons in order to make silos more attractive to the private
sector. A new project proposal is being prepared by the Government, for Bank
review in July 1980; project implementation has been suspended in the meantime.
Based on additional studies to be undertaken by the Government on effective
demand for construction of the silos by the private sector, a decision would
be taken by December 1980 whether to implement the project as a private sector
credit project, or as originally designed.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
ARGENTINA
Oil and Gas Engineering Proiect
Supplementary Pro-ject Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    3 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:  Yacimnientos Petroliferos
Fiscales (YPF) and
Gas del Estado (GdE)
(c)  First presentation to Bank:           September 1979
(d) First Bank mission
to prepare the project:               September 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:   November 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           May 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    September 1980
Section II:   Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will discuss with the Bank the results of the study
to optimize the use of natural gas (para. 40).
(b) YPF will employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank to assist
it in carrying out the reserves audit (para. 52).
(c) YPF will extend the contract to cover the remaining 450 line-
kilometers of seismic surveys under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 52).
(d) The Government's Secretariat of Energy will employ consultants
satisfactory to the Bank to assist it in carrying out the study
to optimize the use of natural gas (para 52).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
Geological Evaluation of the Hydrocarbon Potential
of Some Sedimentary Basins
1.        The basic objectives of the exploratory efforts in Argentina are:
(a) to obtain self-sufficiency in oil production within the next five years,
a goal that is only less than 10% away; (b) to improve the relationship
between proven oil reserves and yearly production, which at present stands at
15 to 1; (c) to improve planning, particularly in gas utilization. These
objectives can be accomplished since the country has important oil and gas-
producing areas in six major sedimentary basins and there are good prospects
for further discoveries in these and in some of the lesser known basins
located within the continental and offshore regions.
2.        The following is a brief geological description of the most important
basins and assessment of their potential:
3.        Northwestern Basins - Three different geological basins overlaying
each other, are designated under this generic name. The oldest and largest
of these basins is the Devonian, which has an irregular shape and started
forming as a geosyncline in early Silurian times, but it is the Devonian
marine sedimentary sequence, consisting of gray shales and quartz sandstones,
which has some economic significance.  It extends over most of Jujuy, Salta
and Santiago del Estero provinces and covers an area of about 160,000 km ,
with a maximum sediment thickness of up to 6,500 m. The Carboniferous Basin
shaped as a small triangle with its base at the northern border, and extend-
ing south from Bolivia, covers an area of some 15,000 km2, mainly over Salta
and Jujuy provinces, with a sediment thickness of nearly 1,800 m, primarily
of continental rocks laid down during Mississipian and Pennsylvanian times.
The Neocretaceous Basin, also in the shape of a triangle, covering mainly
the province of Tucuman but also those of Jujuy and Salta, extends over an
area of some 110,000 km2, and has a thickness of nearly 2,800 m of continen-
tal, marine and litoral sediments deposited from Coniacian to Danian times.
4.        Both the Carboniferous and Neocretaceous Basins are of the intracra-
tonic type, but the latter behaves as a basinal platform with a transitional
cycle at the end. All three basins are covered by a non-marine Tertiary
sequence, deposited from mid-Eocene to Quaternary times, with some minor
interruptions, that may reach up to 9,000 m in thickness in the intermountain
deeps.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
5.        The main structural characteristics oi these basins permit a two
part sub-division. On the west, there are long asymetric folds, slightly
overturned towards the east, possibly cut by a tmique strike-slip fault, and
aligned in a north-south direction. On the eastern portion the structural
characteristics correspond to a typical tensional platform area, with pre-
dominantly homoclinal-type structures, although in the Neocretaceous Basin
there are some folds of diapiric type.
6.        In all three basins, the trapping hydrocarbon mechanism is definite-
ly structural and the reservoir rocks are predominantly finegrained, thin-
bedded, orthoquarzite sandstones interstratified with claystones. The
porosity and permeability of the reservoir rocks; have been greatly improved
by fracturing due to the intense deformation caused by folding. This is
especially true in the case of the Devonian Basi.n, where the reservoir rocks
of the Santa Rosa formation have shown to have t:hese characteristics well
developed.
7.        Throughout the entire sedimentary sequience of the three basins,
which is an oil-producing region, there are a good number of rock formations
with excellent source-characteristics, such as l:he grey to dark-grey bitumi-
nous shales within the Devonian and Carbonic Bas;ins, and the grey, oolitic-
limestones and dark-grey to black shales of the Neocretaceous Basin. It is
therefore believed that there are further deeper prospects where oil, gas-
condensate and gas can be found. This is especially so with regard to the
Devonian, where the entire section consists of niarine rocks and the structural
deformation permits the presence of several long, north-south oriented folded
belts where hydro-carbons can be found.
8.        Cuyo or Central Basin - This basin covrers an area of nearly 80,000
km2, extending over most of the Mendoza area and has an elongated shape with
a north-south axis. Tectonically, it is a typical taphrogenic basin, with
sedimentation starting in Triassic times and continuing later during the
Tertiary-Quaternary. Sediment thicknesses vary for the Triassic and Tertiary-
Quaternary rocks between 3,700 to 3,500 m, respectively. Several volcanic
cycles, diastrophism and a long hiatus during Cretaceous times interrupted
sedimentation.
9.        From a structural point of view, this basin can be sub-divided
in three units. The western portion (where mosi: of the oil fields have
been found to date) consists of a belt of Tertiary folded rocks with two
north-south anticlinal alignments, very often faulted along their axis. The
central zone presents very few folds, oriented northwest to southeast, i.e.,
slightly divergent with those of the western zone, and where only one oil
field has been discovered so far (Vizcacheras). The eastern area, where no
folds have been formed, consists mainly of fault-blocks, and has not yielded
any production.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
10.       The type of sedimentation that characterizes the Cuyo Basin has
determined a scarcity of reservoirs as well as source rocks. The only
acceptable reservoirs are made up of quartoze sandstones, generally com-
pact, tobaceous and shaly. The main source rock appears to be the black
shales of the Cacheuta formation. Based on the above, it can be said that
the prospects for further discoveries in the Cuyo Basin are limited to
small fields and probably to only heavy oil not yet ready for exploitation,
such as in the Llancanelo reservoir.
11.       Neuquen Basin - Extending over an area of about 140,000 km2  that
covers almost entirely the Neuquen province, this basin started forming in
Triassic times, with sedimentation occurring throughout most of the Mesozoic,
until marine deposition ceased in the late Cretaceous to early Tertiary.
Continental sediments were depositeed afterwards. During most of the Tertiary
and Quaternary a series of volcanic and magmatic events also took place. The
sedimentary sequence can be estimated at approximately 7,000 m, for the deep-
est portions of the basin, and consists of several well-defined sedimentary
cycles.
12.       Tectonically, this basin was formed over a stable platform and has
the characteristics of a miogeosynclinal basin. Structurally, the eastern
and southern portions correspond to the basinal platform where block-faulting
predominates, but a very important element is also present, i.e. a 300 km
long basement high with an east-west bearing axis, which was active during
every one of the diastrophic periods. Over this zone, there are positive
structures related to reactivated basement faults and draping of sediments
over old relief. The western zone is structurally defined by a belt of
folded upper Cretaceous to Tertiary rocks, that have formed north-south
oriented anticlines and synclines, generally asymetric and sometimes
overturned.
13.       Hydrocarbon entrapment in this basin is related basically to those
structural elements described above, but a good many reservoirs are the
result of a combination of structural and sedimentation factors. The latter
have great importance in many reservoirs where the trapping mechanism is the
combined effect of thinning-out of sandstones and low-porosity and permeabil-
ity barriers in dolomites, limestones or sandy limestones located over folds,
homoclines, terraces, etc. The predominant reservoir rocks are sandstones
and conglomerates mainly in the lower part of the section, but in the middle
and upper parts calcareous sands, sandy dolomitic limestones and true dolo-
mites are present. There are also accumulations in cracks, fissures, frac-
tures and diaclases of limestones and marls.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
14.       Possibly, the best source rocks in this basin are the black shales
of the Los Molles formation and the fossiliferous limestones of the Barda
Negra formation, both occurring at the base of the sedimentary section.
Based on the presence of good source rocks, some excellent identified reser-
voirs, abundant types of traps, and a variety of sedimentary cycles, as well
as the size and configuration of the basin (which has yielded already good
volumes of oil and gas production), it is estimated that it still has a very
important potential for further discoveries. Much more attention therefore
should be paid towards furthering exploration for both oil and gas.
15.       San Jorge Basin - This basin has an onshore portion that extends
over the Chubut and Santa Cruz provinces and the offshore portion coincides
with the Gulf of San Jorge from where its name derives. It has an elongated
shape with the main axis on a north-south direction, but with a slight bulge
towards the east in the central part, where most of the oil fields have been
found. It occupies an area of about 134,000 km2, taking into consideration
only the area where Cretaceous continental sediments are present.
16.       Tectonically, it is a typical intracratonic basin, since through
most of its sedimentary history only continertal sedimentation took place,
with two well-defined subsidence phases: one predominantly concentric, with
slow, constant sedimentation that generated the central basinal portion, and
the other one, that occurred later on, extencing basin limits in a north-
south direction and with a reactivation of previous relief. Basin subsidence
and the start of sedimentation occurred in Iate Jurassic times, but relief
reactivation, of the second phase, probably happened in early Cretaceous
times. Sedimentation continued during most (if the Cretaceous, with a brief
interruption during the Senonian, but a marine transgression in the early
Paleocene marked the limits of the basinal sedimentary area considered in
this analysis. Afterwards, Tertiary formations covered these sediments as
well as the elevated zones around them.
17.       The total sedimentary thickness has; been estimated to be in excess
of 8,000 m, on the basis of high resolution seismic information, since no
wells have penetrated the entire sedimentary section. Structurally, it is
possible to define two zones in this basin. The eastern zone, where the
predominant features are reactivated tensional faults, generally parallel
to the basin borders, were responsible for basinal subsidence, and are
mainly down to the basin, although some antithetic faults also exist. The
western zone which is characterized by folding related to basement faults,
consists mainly of north-south elongated folds, some overturned towards the
west. Both zones are separated by symmetric folds. Most oil fields have
been found in the eastern zone, i.e., in the basin platform area. In the
western zone there are no major fields, probably due to lack of good
reservoir rocks and poor migration timing.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
18        The trapping mechanism seems to be related to a combined structural-
sedimentary effect, based on pinch-outs against the upthrown side of faults,
but some purely sedimentary traps are also known. The reservoir rocks are
primarily tuffaceous-sandstones, derived from pre-existing volcanic rocks
with a clay matrix of piroclastic origin. Source rocks are principally those
deposited at the base of the sedimentary sequence, and consisting mainly
of dark-grey to black shales and thin oolitic limestones, with much organic
matter disseminated throughout, very rich in ostracods and pollen, and some-
times with thicknesses in excess of 4,000 m. The poor quality of the reser-
voir rocks downgrades the potential of this basin, and also the shallowness
of the second sedimentary cycle; however, the impressive thickness of source
rocks and the possibility of a further extension of the basin towards the
open ocean makes it a fair prospect for continued exploratory efforts.
19.       Austral and Malvinas Basins - These are the least explored, but the
most prospective. The Austral Basin extends over most of Patagonia, covering
provinces of Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego, as well as the continental and
island portions of southern Chile. It also extends offshore until it reaches
its eastern limit, a basement ridge that separates this basin from the
Malvinas, which is an entirely offshore basin. The Austral Basin has an area
of 180,000 km2 and the Malvinas is about 150,000 km2 in size. The Austral
Basin is triangular in shape, with the long side of the triangle against the
Andes, marking its western border, with the base located on Tierra del Fuego,
and the hypotenuse marking the eastern limit, located along the shoreline of
Argentina. The Austral Basin consists of two main sedimentary cycles, both
predominantly marine: one is Cretaceous, and the other one Tertiary in age.
In both cycles the platform zone overlays each other (miogeosynclinal zone),
but the eugeosynclinal zone, located towards the west and southwest, differs
in both cycles. These basins probably started forming in late Jurassic times,
with deposition of the famous Spring Hill formation, which filled up local
depressions. Afterwards, a progressive subsidence and open sea transgression
took place during most of the Cretaceous and Tertiary, interrupted briefly at
times, but continuing until the end of the Tertiary. The total sedimentary
sequence is estimated to be close to 8,000 m in both basins.
20.       Structurally, the most important features are related to the pre-
existing relief, prior to the deposition of the Spring Hill formation, which
is the most important oil reservoir in the platform zone. Elsewhere,
especially towards the west, other hydrocarbon deposits, mainly gas, are
being discovered in sandstone bodies intercalated throughout the entire
sedimentary sequence. In this area, the predominant structural type are
folds. Towards the south, and in the Malvinas Basin, the main structural
element are large reverse faults associated with recumbent folds and also
probably large strike-slip faults oriented east-west.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
21.       The trapping mechanism in the platform zone, where most production
has been found, appears to be the combined effect of pre-existing relief,
where the Spring Hill formation was deposited, and some structural element,
such as a fault or any change in bedding attitudes.  The largest deposits
usually have a well-defined structural elemeat and a considerable thickness
of reservoir rock. Elsewhere, in these basinis, the trapping mechanism has
not as yet been well determined.  The main producing rocks are those of the
Spring Hill formation, consisting of quartzose sandstones with a kaolinitic
matrix.  The most probable source rocks are ;rey to dark-grey, partially
marly shales overlying the Spring Hill formation, together with some glau-
conitic shales of the upper member of this formation. This whole sequence
contains a very abundant fauna of ammonites and foraminifera.
22.       Prospects for further exploration in both the Austral and Malvinas
Basins are still plentiful and it is here that most of the future effort to
find additional oil and gas reserves should be placed. However, the possi-
bilities of finding more gas than oil should be taken into consideration.



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
THE BORROWER
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad del Estado (YPF)
1.        Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad del Estado (YPF), fully
Government owned, is the main entity in carrying out the Government's energy
policies. It is in charge of studying, exploring and exploiting the liquid
and/or gaseous hydrocarbons as well as of manufacturing, transporting and
marketing of these products, except for the distribution and marketing of
natural and liquefied gas which is undertaken by Gas del Estado State
Corporation. In 1979, YPF accounted for about 50% of exploration, about
67% of crude oil, 85% of natural gas production and 73% of petroleum refining.
In exploration and production, the remaining portion consists practically of
subcontracts of YPF to the private sector, which, based on Government policy,
has been increasing its role in recent years. The refining capacity in the
private sector is mostly owned by Esso and Shell. With an equity base of
about US$2.65 billion, gross sales of over US$4.5 billion and total personnel
of 36,000 in 1979, YPF is one of the largest companies in Latin America.
Organization, Management and Personnel
2.        YPF was established by decree in 1922 as Direccion General de
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales as a kind of Government unit. In 1977, the
National Executive Power Committee transformed it to a State Company under
the name of Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad del Estado. YPF now
operates under the Law of State Corporations, and reports to the Secretariat
of Energy. The main object of this transformation was to encourage YPF to
operate more efficiently in its increasing industrial and commercial activities.
According to the Law of State Corporations, YPF cannot be declared bankrupt
and can only be dissolved through the national Executive Power Committee.
At present, all of YPF shares belong to the Federal Government, which has
deposited the shares with the Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas.
3.        The direction and management of YPF is exercised by a Board of
Directors, consisting of one President, one Vice-President and seven Regular
Directors, who are appointed by the Government for a term of three years
with the possibility of reelection without limitation. The President, the
Vice-President and three Regular Directors are proposed by the Ministry of
Economy; three Regular Directors by the three Commands-in-Chief and one by
the Ministry of Interior on behalf of the oil producing provinces. There have
been no changes in the composition of the Board of Directors since its appoint-
ment in 1977. Before 1977, there had been frequent changes of the Presidency
of YPF, impairing effective management. Since then, Mr. Raul Ondarts was
YPF's President and took a number of measures to improve the organization.



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
Mr. Ondarts died in an airplane accident in November 1979 and was succeeded
by Mr. Carlos Benaglia, previously Vice President of YPF. The Board of
Directors has formed an Executive Committee, which is in charge of the three
General Directorates of YPF: Operations, Administration and Civil Works and
Contracts.
4.        Excessive total employment and poor personnel structure have been
one of the major burdens of YPF until 1977, when its status and operations
were changed from a Government institution to a private company. From March
1976 to October 1979, total employment at YPF has been reduced from 51,700
to 35,700, a decline of about 30%. Within this period, the share of profes-
sionals has increased from 4.7% to 6.7% of total employment. The substantial
reduction of total employment as well as the increased flexibility in compen-
sation policies have made it possible for YPF to pay competitive salaries
and to attract competent personnel. Although general salary increases in
Argentina are supervised by the Ministry of Economy, there is enough flexi-
bility to provide for adequate salaries and salary increases on an individual
basis. With the stabilized management situation, the reduction and restructur-
ing of personnel, as well as the more dynamic approach towards formulating
and implementing increasingly complex tasks, YPF appears to have made consid-
erable progress since 1977. However, it will take time to achieve measurable
results at all levels of the entity.
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
5.        Since 1977, YPF's accounting system and procedures have been changed
completely from the Government budgetary system to financial accounting, in
order to suit better the needs of a large industrial enterprise. Improved
reliability and timely availability of accounting information, as well as the
establishment of an integrated information system on accounting, costing, cash
management and budgeting have been the major objectives of YPF. With substan-
tial new recruitment of competent staff in the financing and controller's
departments as well as with the help of outside consultants (mostly Arthur
Andersen & Co), YPF has succeeded in improving the accounting system and, at
present, is in the process of establishing cost accounting throughout YPF,
which should be completed by 1981 with the help of consultants. At the
same time, YPF is aiming at integrating its information system, in order
to serve not only for accounting needs, but also for cash management, budget
forecast and control, monthly reports and cost accounting and control.
YPF can show substantial achievements in improving its accounting system.
However, in order to serve as an efficient management tool, there still will
be substantial efforts needed to bring YPF's information system in line with
the company's importance and complexity. With continuity in management and
the outside help of consultants, YPF should be able to establish an adequate
information system within a reasonable time period.



- 40 -
ANNEX V
Page 3
6.        YPF has 23 accounting units, i.e. head office, 6 refineries, 5 pro-
duction fields, 9 regional sales divisions and 2 storage facilities. In
1980, all units will be equipped with electronic data processing units (IBM
34), operating on the basis of a standardized accounting plan and providing
for more decentralization. Accounting of personnel, finance, depreciation
and inflation adjustments will be centralized in the head office. The
establishment of cost centers, to be completed by 1981 is mainly aimed at (1)
efficiency control, (2) guidance for product price fixing and (3) accounting
costs for inventory control and valuation. YPF's Fiscal Years have been
somewhat irregular in the past (closing dates were July 1977, June 1978 and
December 1978), but should now be the calendar years. Annual reports should
be completed for presentation to the shareholders' meeting 4 months after
the end of the Fiscal Year. As a publicly owned company, YPF prepares also
an annual budget, which is submitted for approval by the Ministry of Economy.
The adherence to the budget is controlled by the Sindicatura General de
Empresas Publicas, which also audits YPF's accounts. In the past, YPF's
financial statements have been substantially qualified by the Sindicatura.
With few qualifications left as of December 31, 1978, YPF expects that its
1979 annual statements would be without qualifications. In addition to the
legal accounting and budget requirements, YPF prepares monthly reports for
its management, analyzing the development of its operational and financial
performance.
Financial Analysis
General
7.        Analysis of YPF's financial statements is complex because of high
inflation in Argentina and because the accounting system in general and with-
in YPF have been changed substantially in recent years. YPF's accounting
system gradually changed from a budgetary system to financial accounting in
1978. General accounting rules in Argentina now recommend adjustments of all
non-monetary assets and liabilities according to a general index, based on
cost-of-living increases. However, even with sophisticated adjustment
methods, financial statements will always show a mixture of real and infla-
tionary impacts. Therefore, under the circumstances of high inflation and
the transitory stage of YPF's financial statements in recent years, only a
global financial analysis can lead to reasonable conclusions. Detailed
Income Statements and Balance Sheets of YPF from 1977 to 1979, as well as
Notes to Financial Statements explaining in detail the adjustment process
are available in the project file.



- 41 -
ANNEX V
Page 4
Production and Sales Prices
8.        YPF' oil and ga! production and sales prices have developed as
follows (in millions of m
Pre-
liminary
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978    1979
_~~~~~~~~
Production (m3 millions)
Gas                          8,947    9,833    10,819   11,532   11,447   12,330
Oil
YPF                      17.2     16.6      17.1      18.8     17.8      17.6
Contractors              6.7       6.1       5.9      6.0       8.2       9.6
23.9     22.7      23.0      24.8     26.0      27.2
Imports (Crude Oil Net)       3.3      2.4       3.5       3.4      2.5       2.1
Crude Oil
Processed by YPF           19.8     18.9      19.5      20.4     20.5      21.1
Oil production has steadily increased since 1975.  Based on YPF's policy to
enlarge the role of the private sector in oi:L production, YPF's own production
has been stable in recent years and major production increases have been
achieved by the contractors in 1978 and 1979. As a result of higher domestic
production, imports of crude oil have been substantially reduced in 1978 and
1979. For the difference between import prices and US$14.-/barrel, YPF is
reimbursed by the Government. However, since YPF's own average production
costs are at about US$10.-/barrel or less, an increase in domestic production
favorably affects YPF's financial situation. YPF's refineries operate at
about 70% capacity utilization (private sector refineries substantially less
due to general overcapacity.
Pre-
liminary
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978    1979
Average Selling Prices
Current Arg$/litre
YPF Wholesale Price        0.7      2.0       10.3      25.3    75.6      162.7
Retail Price           1.4      3.7       18.0     44.3   124.3       268.6
1974 Arg$/litre
YPF Wholesale Price         0.7     0.64      0.56     0.58    0.68       0.57
Retail Price           1.4      1.19      1.03     1.02    1.12       0.95



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 5
Selling prices of petroleum have deteriorated considerably in real terms in
the past five years. In real terms, YPF's average wholesale prices in 1979
were about 20% below their 1974 level, with most of deterioration having
taken place in the second half of 1978 and in 1979, as a result of the anti-
inflation policy of the Government which fixes the prices of petroleum pro-
ducts. March 1980 YPF selling prices ranged from US$-.71/gal for premium
gasoline to US$-.35/gal for fuel oil. Consumer prices as of March 1980 for
the same products were US$1.70/gal and USS-.37/gal, respectively.
Income Statements
10.       YPF's Income Statements can be summarized as follows (in $a billions):
8-77/6-78  7-78/12-78   1-79/6-79   1-79/12-79
11 months   6 months      6 months    12 months
(preliminary)
Sales                           2,181.8      1,806.8     2,802.9       7,485.2
Less:  Sales Tax                  570.8        491.5       698.6       1,939.6
Net Sales                       1,611.0      1,315.3     2,104.3       5,546.6
Costs of Goods Sold             1,476.4      1,043.7     1,485.9       4,556.3
Administration, Marketing          61.8        105.7        84.1         564.3
and Other Costs
Operating Profit                   72.8        165.9       534.3         425.0
Operating Profit/Net Sales        4.5%         12.6%         25.4%         7.7%
Adjusted Net Profit/Net Sales   22.5%          21.2%         33.7%        14.3%
Adjusted Net Profit/Equity        n.a.         18.2%         22.2%        18.7%
Because of uneven fiscal years and high inflation rates, the comparability of
the different periods is limited. The operating profits, as a major indicator,
considerably improved during mid-1977 and mid-1979, although selling prices
in real terms declined. This can be mainly attributed to the reduction in
personnel from 48,800 in January 1977 to 35,700 in October 1979. Furthermore,
more efficient management and improved procurement and purchasing were other
important factors in relative cost decreases. However, during the course of
1979, product selling prices have deteriorated in real terms to the extent,
that operating profits in the second half of 1979 were negative, thereby
reducing the results for the total fiscal year 1979 from the satisfactory
profit level of the first six months. Since oil exploration and production
costs are expected to increase in real terms in the future and since cost
reductions of the past two years are not likely to continue, YPF will need
selling price increases, in real terms, of at least 15-20% in order to regain



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 6
a satisfactory level of operating profits. As discussed in para. 42 of the
text, the Government has informed the Bank that for the proposed engineering
loan, as a first step in reestablishing YPF's financial position, it will
increase fuel prices in real terms so that in the long run they would reach
international price levels.  To date, prices have been increased by an average
of 1.5 to 2% a month or about 7% for the first four months of 1980. An
increase of at least 15% for the whole year iS expected which would allow YPF
t            sufficient cash flow to service its debt and :ontribute to about one-third of
its investment program.
11.        Apart from the operating profits, YPF's financial situation has
been highly affected by its leverage gains fr3m foreign exchange indebtedness.
Since the general inflation rate used for the revaluation of assets was much
larger than the respective decline of the excnange rate of the Peso, YPF
could obtain substantial book gains in its foreign-exchange indebtedness
(US$535 million in 1979). However, in the long run, it should be expected,
that the exchange rate development would be in line with the development of
inflation, indicating that such differences could also be reverse in future
years, with implications of similar magnitude on the loss side. The contri-
butions to the Government will be replaced in 1980 through taxes, as if YPF
were operating as a private company; it is expected that such tax burden
would not exceed the present level of contributions.
Balance Sheets
12.       YPF's Balance Sheets are summarized below (in billion Arg.$):
7-31-77*   12-31-78    6-30-79    12-31-79
(preliminary)
Current Assets               245.2        785.0     1,306.4      2,071.0
Fixed Asets                  600.5     2,960.7      5,136.3      7,429.0
Total Assets           845.7      3,745.7      6,442.7      9,500.0
Current Liabilities          593.7     1,523.7      2,096.1      3,571.7
Long-Term Liabilities        102.3        684.1     1,140.6      1,703.0
Equity                       149.7     1.537.9      3,206.0      4,245.3
845.7     3,745.7      6,442.7      9,500.0
Current Ratio                  0.4         0.5          0.6          0.6
Total Debt (incl.
Current Liabilities)
to Equity Ratio           82:18        59:41        50:50        45:55
*    Not comparable with subsequent years because of different
adjustment technique.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Page 7
The low current ratio is mainly a result of the relatively high share of
short-term bank borrowings. This is mostly due to the non-availability of
large amounts of long-term funds in the local market; however, most of YPF's
short-term bank borrowings are rolled over. Also, current liabilities con-
tain over Arg. $100 billion liabilities for sales taxes, which, on average,
are payable only 30 days after collection. Given the scarcity of funds in
Argentina, YPF's access to foreign markets (YPF borrows in foreign markets
with the guaranty of the Government), high inflation, and because the turn-
over of its current assets is much faster than that of current liabilities,
YPF's liquidity position can be considered acceptable under the circumstances.
Total bank borrowings of YPF have been as follows (June 30, 1979, in US$
million):
Short-term         Long-term          Total
Foreign                        241.7             654.3             896.0
Local                          118.5              -                118.5
360.2             654.3           1,014.5
Subsequently, further substantial long-term borrowings have been undertaken
in the Euromarket, increasing the capitalization of YPF and taking advantage
of favorable market conditions. The maturity structure of long-term funds is
well balanced.
13.       YPF's unsatisfactory equity structure in 1977 has dramatically
improved, as a result of large inflation gains from the adjustments of assets
and liabilities. Such accounting practice can be considered acceptable, with
inflation rates as high as in Argentina in recent years. Total equity of YPF
now represents about half of its total assets which is quite satisfactory.
However, in the future, in order (1) to cover possible losses from adjustments
and (2) to finance part of the large investment program, equity increases
might be required, unless YPF can obtain sales increases in real terms, which
would provide for satisfactory operating profits. As already stated (para. 42
of the text and para. 10 of this Annex), the Government has undertaken to
take steps during 1980 on real price increases and the Bank has indicated
to the Government and YPF that the financing of projects in the hydrocarbons
sector ensuing from the proposed engineering loan will depend on further
Government action on prices.



- 45 -
ANNEX V
Page 8
Cash Flow and Investment Program
14.       As part of the annual budget, YPF prepares fund flow statements
which for- 1980 are as follows:
Projected
1980
(in billion Arg.$;
November 1979 prices)
Sources:
Revenues                                         5,756
Less: Current Expenditures                       5,569
187
Long-Term Bank Loans                               953
Suppliers' Credits                                   -
Other                                                8
1,148
Applications:
Investments                                      1,751
Repayment Bank Loans                               381
2,132
Working Capital                                   (984)
Although these budget estimates are followed-up during the fiscal year, they
should be considered indicative only, since t:here is as yet no tie-in between
YPF's financial accounting and budget estimal:es. However, the estimates
clearly underline that of the annual fixed investment of-about US$1.7 billion
planned for 1980, only about 10  can be financed with self-generated funds
from operations. With no further provision for equity financing, the invest-
ments will be mostly financed with foreign long-term bank loans (guaranteed
by the Government) as well as through the working capital. When considering
the above estimates, which have been prepared in 1979, inflation and foreign
exchange rates as well as adjustments should be taken into account. Although
some of these factors do not have an immedia:e impact on the cash flow, they
can nevertheless substantially influence the profit situation of YPF, thereby
improving or decreasing YPF's creditworthiness for its borrowings. YPF's debt
service payments on its foreign long-term loans should amount to about US$150
to 200 million in the forthcoming years, depending on the assumed interest
rate level and the maturities of the new borrowings. In view of the Govern-
ment backing on financing YPF's cash deficits, as well as the presently
satisfactory equity position of YPF (considering inflation adjustments), no



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 9
financing problems for its investment program and its debt service payments
are foreseen. However, taking the company's and the Government's philosophy
of managing and operating YPF on private company principles, operating profits
(based on the price/cost structure) at present are too low to finance the
ambitious investment program. Sustained price increases in real terms of
15-20% during 1980 would increase YPF's operating profits and cash generation
by about US$300 to 400 million, resulting in a self-financing share of new
investments of about 35-50%. Although the former level could be considered
acceptable, the latter would be more satisfactory for an independent company.
Thus, the planned real increase in prices during 1980 will allow YPF to
self-finance a reasonable portion of its investment. Given prevailing infla-
tionary conditions in Argentina, even a lower real increase would be an
important first step in helping consolidate YPF's finances.



0 72'\                                                 -- 6'4' -                                             56'
1  BOLIVIA    m /
/ A g  ;  h   :  1 t San Salvador '//P                     A       AY
24'                             >  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~de Juiuy   A/ o     
-24'             .                                     0=( JX \ A 0                                                                                            4
(~~~~~~~
-'              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ff~~~~~~~~/ '''a5 X                                                              T.-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   vs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
32'                                Mprsdvzar 0                                                 Lanca X             -
>? ). n"   Z Mert ;cedes                 X.   R
o        = < A    Ii                                                        Z7  
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/               E>oa                      ar    / -.IW y                  Ma ddel Plaoa           
Q)~~-    =    -                                                                                                      X <sxs0 k - -Cue;
-         B ahia 4   f-
Y0  I0i: y_:A            F                             B>  I                              or del Plogolasn
y cl~.n0          eqd                         ,      --.--                                  ARGENTINA
I              & ^-;A                                                                           01IL. INDUSTRY LOCATIONS
-40'                                       ~~~~~~X- -    Proposed Natural Gas Pipelines
. .   ~    (  2  ~ ,     ~                                   EXISTING GAS AND OL PRODUCTS 
T               Plco>T>unscido                     A                                               NaturalGas
v V~~~~~~~~~X1  XF   E pI\__Itr*oo onsre
-48- X = / / f r      1~                                       ~-                          Q        Oiload Gas Fields
A         -'- -'--'---  Limits of GealagicolI Basins
4\Ch9b            /                   X                                    PRINCIPAL BASINS
0                                                                            I                              Northest
1                            C                                     A            ~                 Chao Pormosa
the Qsafl't                tr whish odorot R,oats/\                                     ®        Del Saldod
r et                 io                                       (D~~~~~¼    Del Calarada
ii                                        N.                 0       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Valdds
®   San Jorge
Pic -YTrascada use®                                                                 Austral
I'              F              ®       ~~~~~~~~~Marina Austral
t                                                I                                  j-                    le55hProimcialti Boundaries
sny te V o/ a-                                                                 -t                            -,  oeternationol Boundares
48'acceptance  of  5uch Rivers
48'                                                                                                                     48es  ¼ 
F- @) 4~FA (t/c A4c/vsv1,v}                                                      '    '5-L
F  ~               <  -
i$Gallegos ' ru 
5. ASm,viilpedbyCK'K
This maP ha ha prpared by rthtC                            Gdrande
th -ooiii-o or thre r-ead, op                                                                                                                        RESi-
the repot is s.h,vh it i-atahed.     JfrJ        -(
doesiots 0,vs  the par of the                                 KILOPS
World Bar-i a~;ed iiffifiws.~ soy                                    Mt
jodmeo so1f  ihe., -ee! reio                                              0         100)      260        360       400        5600
or sosesoo f-sh ho-d--eo              72'                             64'                             56'                             ~t



