=FFICTAL     AN NUMBER 1880 AR
Loan Agreement
(Oil and Gas Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES - SOCIEDAD DEL ESTADO
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1880 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     (              2         , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES - SOCIEDAD
DEL ESTADO (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the cost of the project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B) The Argentine Republic will carry out Part C of the
Project and has undertaken to guarantee the loan hereinafter
provided and the performance of the Borrower's obligations under
this Agreement, all as set forth in a Guarantee Agreement of even
date herewith between The Argentine Republic (hereinafter called
the Guarantor) and the Bank; and
(C) the Borrower will relend to the Guarantor part of the
proceeds of the Loan for purposes of Part C of the Project as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make a loan to the Borrower on the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
services for Part B of the Project, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured on the basis of quotations
from an adequate number of qualified and experienced firms accept-
able to the Bank or in accordance with such other procedures as
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contracts for the
services referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Parts A and B of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and oil
and natural gas exploration and production practices.
(b) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C of the
Project, transfer the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category
(4) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Guarantor under
contractual arrangements to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Guarantor under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall duly perform its obligations thereunder,
and not change or fail to enforce any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to ass'.t the Borrower .in the carrying
out of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan not transferred to
the Guarantor against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan not transferred to the Guarantor to be used exclu-
sively for Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(i) promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or


﻿-4-
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and (ii) promptly upon completion of the studies and
the survey included in Parts A and B of the Project, respec-
tively, the recommendations of such studies and a summary of the
results of such survey and such other information related thereto
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of
the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be derived
from them), to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan not transferred to the Guarantor, and to
disclose their use in Parts A and B of the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning Parts A and B of the the Project, their cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expenditure
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of
them.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant
records and documents, as required for purposes of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out Part B of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to Part B of the Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, carry out its operations, plan the development of its
business and undertaking and maintain its financial position, all
in accordance with sound industrial, financial and administrative
and petroleum exploration and production practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain its plants,
equipment, properties and facilities and shall, from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering practices; and
(ii) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
properties or assets required for the efficient carrying out of
its business and undertaking, including the carrying out of Parts
A and B of the Project, except in the normal course of its
business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its right to carry on its operations,
including Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for insurance, against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shal   maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate accounts to be used exclusively for Parts A and
B of the Project and to register in such accounts all funds
received in connection with such Parts of the Project and all
payments made therefor.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts,
including the accounts referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment, and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of


﻿-6-
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
'hall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date             4p i0   , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of See   on 12.04  f the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Yacimientos Petrolilferos Fiscales -
Sociedad del Estado
Avenida Roque Saenz Peffa 777
(1364) Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                       Telex:
PETROLEUM                           21999 YPF SC AR
Baires
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 4V
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES -
SOCIEDAD DEL ESTADO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' services        1,500,000          100% of for-
for Part A.1 of the                            eign expendi-
Project                                        tures
(2) Consultants' services        1,500,000          100% of for-
for Part A.2 of the                            eign expendi-
Project                                        tures
(3) Services for Part B         19,500,000          51%
of the Project
(4) Consultants' services        2,000,000          100% of for-
for Part C of the                              eign expendi-
Project                                        tures
(5) Unallocated                  2,500,000
TOTAL       27,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 10 -
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiv-
alent of $5,000,000 may be made in respect of Category 2 on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1980; and
(b) expenditures in respect of the consultants' services
under Part C of the Project unless the Bank has been furnished
with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
have been executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and
the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of


﻿- 11 -
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
promoting oil and natural gas exploration and development and
strengthening its technical capability in such matters, and to
assist the Guarantor in optimizing the use of natural gas.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.   Audit of oil and gas reserves:
Reservoir engineering studies:
1.   (i) to determine proven secondary recovery oil reserves
in about 9 reservoirs in various basins and enhance
recovery methods in oil fields operated by the Borrower;
(ii) to determine proven reserves in newly discovered oil and
gas reservoirs in the Northwestern basin, including an
evaluation of probable oil and gas reserves by statisti-
cal methods; and
2.   to review calculations for crude oil, gas and condensate
reserves, mainly in the Southern basin and in all the other
major reservoirs not included in Part A.l.
B.   Seismic Survey
A seismic survey on the Northwestern basin consisting of
about 1000 kilometers of seismic lines with stakes placed at
intervals of 25 to 50 meters apart, with a coverage of 24-fold
to 48-fold and with 20 to 40 holes per position at a depth of 1 to
3 meters and utilizing 96 channels for recording.
C.   Natural gas
A study to optimize the use of natural gas including an
analysis of:
1.   the level and structure of liquid fuel prices and
natural gas tariffs;
2.   demand for natural gas and competing fuels;


﻿- 13 -
3.   options for disposition of fuel oil surpluses;
4.   optimization of future refining expansion and related
investment requirements; and
5.   transport and storage requirements for natural gas,
including the scope for gas recycling and reinjection
and the optimum development of natural gas fields.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1984
through   July 1, 1995                      1,125,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of 0       9 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


