Document of
The World Bank                         FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2558a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ZAGREBACKA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
August 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                                    Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                           Din.18.64
Din.1                                          US$0.0536
Din.1,OO0                                      US$53.60
Din.l,OO0,OOO                                  US$53,600
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; as of
June 29, 1979 the rate was Din.19.076 - US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL          =  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
LDR           =  Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
OVP           =  Sava River Authority (Opce Vodoprivredno Poduzece Za
Vodno Podrucje Sliva Save)
PU            =  Project Unit
SDK           =  Social Accounting Service
SIZ           =  Self Managed Water Economy Interest Community
of the Catchment Areas
SR Croatia    =  Socialist Republic of Croatia
SVIZ-Sava     =  Self Managed Water Economy Interest Community
of the Sava River
ZB            =  Zagrebacka Banka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Zagrebacka Banka (ZB).
Guarantor:       Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:  Individual farmers, seven social sector enterprises, S'ava
River Authority (OVP), Self-Managed Water Economy Interest
Community of the Sava River (SVIZ-Sava) and four Self--Managed
Water Economy Interest Communities of the Catchment Areas
(SIZs).
Amount:         US$51 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:          Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
Re-lending       The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the beneficiaries
Terms:         (a) for the on-farm development credit component at an in-
terest rate of not less than 9 percent plus a fee of 2 percent
for guarantee and other charges; and (b) for the other com-
ponents at an interest rate of not less than 8.4 percent. The
foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan will be borne by the
Socialist Republic of Croatia for the individual sector and by
the social sector subborrowers, OVP, SVIZ-Sava and the SIZs
for all other parts of the project.
Project         The project is part of Croatia's long-term flood control and
Description:   drainage development program for the Sava River Basin.  The
project would drain 44,000 ha of land. It would increase
available arable land by 19,700 ha, increase crop yields and
cropping intensity on 24,300 ha of land, raise productivity
and income of the rural population and create employment in
an area where there is considerable underemployment. The
increased food production on the drained land would substitute
for imports and cater to increasing domestic demand. The
project would also establish extension and land consolidation
programs which would further increase productivity in the
project area and would strengthen institutions involved in
the project through the provision of technical assistance and
training of key staff.
The project would directly benefit about 5,200 individual
farm families and the members of seven social sector enter-
prises. In addition the food gardens of some 8,000 non-farm
families would benefit from a lowering of the water table.
Increased availability of arable land and use of fertilizers
would shift crop production patterns of individual farmers
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theiir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
towards higher value crops. It is expected that average agri-
cultural income per capita would increase by over 70 percent.
At full development annual incremental value of crop and live-
stock production would amount to about $36 million in constant
1978 prices.
The main risks are related to estimation of prices and yields.
However, even if benefits were lowered by as much as 15 per-
cent, the rate of return would still be acceptable at about
11 percent.
Estimated Cost:                                                            Percent
of Total
Local    Foreign    Total   Project
-------$ million---------    Cost
I.  Project Works                         24.19      13.51      37.70       28
II. On-farm Development Credit
A.  Social Sector                     17.46      15.49      32.95       25
B.  Individual Sector                  4.02       1.64       5.66        4
Subtotal                         21.48      17.13      38.61       29
III.  Equipment                              1.80       4.73       6.53        5
IV.  Foreign Consultants & Training         0.02       0.18       0.20        1
V.  Support Services                      10.65       1.28      11.93        9
Base Project Cost                58.14      36.83      94.97
Total Physical Contingencies (10%)  5.79          3.76       9.55        7
Total Price Contingencies (27%)    17.60         10.52      28.12       21
Total Project Cost
Including Contingencies 1/       81.53      51.11    132.64       100
Financing Plan:                            $ Million           Percent
IBRD                        51.00                39
Sub-Borrowers               26.52                20
ZB                          55.12                41
Total             132.64               100
Estimated Disbursements:                 ---------------($ Million)-------------
Bank FY      1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                          2.5   10.0   11.5    9.5   10.0    7.5
Cumulative                      2.5   12.5   24.0   33.5   43.5   51.0
Rate of Return (%):           17 Percent.
Appraisal Report:             Report No. 2448a-YU
Date: August 8, 1979
1/   Including import duties and taxes estimated at $17 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ZAGREBACKA BANKA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$51 million to Zagrebacka Banka (ZB), with the guarantee of
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to finance the foreign exchange
costs of a drainage project. The loan would bear interest at 7.9 percent per
annum and would have a term of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years.
The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent (a) to individual farmers and seven
social sector enterprises for on-farm development with an interest rate of at
least 9 percent plus a fee of 2 percent for guarantee and other operaLtions
and for periods ranging from 3 to 15 years including up to 5 years of grace
and (b) to the Sava River Authority (Opce Vodoprivredno Produzece za Vodno
Podrucje Sliva Save or OVP), the Self-Managed Water Economy Interest Community
of the Sava River (SVIZ-Sava) and four Self-Managed Water Economy Int:erest
Communities of the Catchment Areas (SIZs) for project works, equipmelnt, con-
sultants and overseas training for up to 15 years including a grace period
of up to 5 years with an interest rate of at least 8.4 percent. The foreign
exchange risk of the Bank loan will be borne by the Socialist Republic of
Croatia (SR Croatia) for the on-farm development credit component to indivi-
dual subborrowers and by the social sector subborrowers, OVP, SVIZ-Sava and
SIZs for the other components of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and Novem-
ber 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes governmenlt, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development.  It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over ha:Lf of the
total labor force.  The private sector is comprised predominantly oE peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, trans-
port and tourism.  Decision making at all levels is governed by the principle
of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique institutions
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Tenth Highway Project
(Report No. P-2452a-YU) dated March 15, 1979 and approved March 27, 1979.
Some updating has been provided to take account of recent events.  A
country economic memorandum based on a recent economic mission is expected
to be distributed to the Executive Directors in October, 1979.



- 2 -
and instruments of economic policy. The current system has gradually evolved
over the years with important new changes introduced in the Constitution
of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision making power
of workers. The federative structure of the state has been strengthened.
Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has been shifted
from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes. Concurrently,
the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over the socially
owned means of production has been potentially increased by a restructuring
of all economic organizations. All economic organizations e.g. enterprises,
now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor
(BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a marketable
output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell provides
workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product of their
work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changes have extended workers' self-management to the
macroeconomic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been
introduced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of
the economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the
form of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, economic
units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and demand.
In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state can
impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an average annual rate of about
7 percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high through-
out the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled
during the period to an estimated $1,960 at 1977 market prices. 1/ The
1/ According to the 1978 World Bank Atlas.



-3 -
social sector, in particular industry, was the driving force of the economy.
The share of industry in GDP has increased to 47 percent while agriculture
has declined to 16 percent, paving the way for development of a modern
industry/service oriented urban society. The past two decades have also been
associated with a growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1954-76 exports and imports of goods and non-factor services have
grown by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per annum in real terms, respec-
tively; much of this in the convertible currency areas.
7.        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia has been characterized by large regional income disparities. Four
of the regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with
two-thirds of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, wiizh one-
third, are officially designated as less developed regions (LDRs). The differ-
ence between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are
large intraregional per capita disparities ranging 10 to 1 between cDmmunes.
These differences are a product of diverse factors notably differing shares of
the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At it:s peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973,
with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing considerable
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7 percent in 1971 to nearly 13 percent: in 1976. 1/
This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemployment has
been highly regionalized.  In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from 2'3.5 percent
in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
terized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior. Periods of rapid economic
1/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



- 4 -
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments 9; ffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity.  Tl;-s
has been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improvements in
the balance of payments situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic growth,
recession in Western Europe and higher oil prices resulted in a sharp deter-io-
ration of the balance of payments situation and a $1.2 billion current account
deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (industrial producer prices)
fueled by external price rises, accelerated to 26 percent. Both 1975 and 1976
were marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy through moderating
the rate of growth, improving the balance of payments situation and reducing
inflation. GDP grew by 3.6 percent per annum in 1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976,
well below the historical trend rate. Weak domestic demand reduced import
requirements and placed pressure on enterprises to export. This, and the
recovery of activity in the OECD, led to a 15 percent real increase in
merchandise exports in 1976. Merchandise imports during the same period fell
by 7 percent. As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a
surplus of $165 million. Inflation also dropped perceptibly to 9 percent.
This was partly due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent price
controls.
10.       A strong upturn in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mid-1976 and has continued since. There was a rapid
increase in money supply in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976 which, through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP is
estimated to have grown by 8.1 percent and the industrial sector by 9.6 per-
cent in 1977. This upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure and a
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments situation. Inflation increased
to 13 percent, exports declined in real terms by 4 percent and imports rose by
15 percent. The current account recorded a deficit of $1.6 billion. There
was some slackening in the level of economic activity in 1978. GDP is esti-
mated to have increased by 6.6 percent despite a drop in agricultural produc-
tion of 5 percent due to adverse weather conditions. The current account
deficit is estimated to have fallen to around $1.0 billion. The rate of
inflation is estimated to be 13 percent. Policies for 1979 aim at maintaining
a 6 percent growth in GDP, a 5 percent growth of exports, a 2 percent growth
in imports and a current account deficit of around $1.2 billion. Preliminary
trends in 1979 indicate that although the economy has continued to grow
rapidly, growth has been associated with a rapidly deteriorating balance-of-
payments situation. This has been a consequence of a sharp revival in demand
for imports following a year in which import volume declined and has been
exacerbated by the rise in the price of oil and less favorable prospects for
tourism following the devastating earthquake of April 15 in the coastal areas
of Montenegro. Oil price increases during 1979 are likely to add a further
$0.5 billion to the import bill in 1979. This, and the anticipated mDre rapid
growth of imports than exports, is likely to lead to a sharp deterioration in
the current account deficit to over $2 billion in 1979.
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has ex-
panded steadily and rapidly. An important factor in this has been the social



pressure on enterprises to create additional work places.  Employment grew
by 4.5 percient per annum between 1974 and 1978. Labor productivity has, as
a result, grown little during this period. Since real personal incomes have
continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first was
the balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil lecl to a
sudden increase in the country's import bill. More importantly, the decline
in the number of Yugoslav workers abroad inhibited the growth of workers'
remittances, which account for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign
exchange earnings. The prospects for growth of merchandise exports also
deteriorated because of the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of
payments consequently became a more binding constraint on economic growth.
The second area was employment. External migration was a key factorc in
allowing the low-productivity, private agricultural labor force to decline
rapidly between 1965-73. Return of Yugoslav workers placed considerable
pressure oIn the labor market and in particular the social sector, whlich is
the main source of new jobs.
13.       The policy response to these issues was the 1976-80 Five Year Plan
which foresaw important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia, by
and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater self-
sufficiency the Plan called for a major restructuring of the economy with
emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the power
sector. Included in the priority sectors were basic chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and
inter-republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged
and where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite consider-
able possibilities for local production. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remained one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate
for the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing
raw materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures were int:roduced
to ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis
was placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale
industry. An employment policy was adopted to facilitate an order:Ly growth of
work opportunities in existing enterprises. New incentives were aLso provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures were expected to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work
places. Such a growth would be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of workers from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresaw a growth in GDP of 7.0
percent. Exports were projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant dollars.
However, imports were projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflecting the
significant degree of import substitution anticipated. Such a sharp fall in
import growth, however, appeared somewhat excessive and not likely to be



- 6 -
attainable during the plan period.  Consequently, if Yugoslavia adhered to
the ceiling it set in the plan on the level of indebtedness and debt service
ratio, a somewhat more modest overall economic growth rate of 5-6 percent was
likely to be achieved.
15.       Developments in the first three years of the plan period have been
mixed. The economy has grown rapidly as planned (average annual growth of GDP
of 6.2 percent) and modern sector employment opportunities have also increased
significantly. However, merchandise export growth at 2.6 percent per annum
has been very disappointing. The current account deficit has been kept in
check by limiting merchandise import growth to 1.8 percent per annum since
1976.  Despite this, external indebtedness has increased significantly and
will be further exacerbated with the anticipated deterioration in the balance-
of-payments situation in 1979. Thus, although the economy is likely to
achieve a 5-6 percent overall economic growth rate for the period 1976-80,
the balance-of-payments situation is worse than anticipated. Consequently to
deal with the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation Yugoslavia will need
to accept a more moderate medium-term growth target and instigate policies
designed to improve the country's export performance. Based on the recent
trends in external borrowing and our balance-of-payments projections, Yugos-
lavia is expected, even with slower growth, to experience gradually rising
debt service ratios in the early 1980s. The Yugoslavs, aware of the balance-
of-payments situation, are presently introducing stabilization measures to
curb the rate of economic growth. They are also in the process of reassessing
the economy's medium-term growth targets.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The previous financial transfer mechanism continues
as the principal instrument for regional development. However, in addition
to this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by
enterprises in the developed, into the less developed regions. This measure
is expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how
in addition to the financial transfers of the past few years. The regional
problem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues
facing the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer
run.
Creditworthiness
17.       In the period 1974-77 gross capital inflows averaged just over $2.0
billion per annum increasing the total level of medium- and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed to $8.9 billion by the end of 1977. About 75 per-
cent of Yugoslavia's debt contracted during this period was contracted from
commercial sources in convertible currencies. The bulk of this has been
suppliers credits though financial credits in the Euro-currency market have
become increasingly important in financing the economy's residual external
capital needs. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial
long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to need substantial
credits in the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term economic objec-
tives. The debt service ratio averaged 17 between 1974-78. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to over 20 in the early 1980s in spite of lower
anticipated growth rates of GDP. Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record,
pragmatism and demonstrable control over the balance of payments, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The Bank has made 55 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,266
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent ($1,004.4 million) has been
for 19 loans for the transportation sector--10 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). Seven loans totalling $343 mil-
lion (about 15 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia) have been made
for agriculture (including two for irrigation) and agro-industries. Fourteen
loans amounting to $300 million (about 13 percent of the total) have also
been made for industry and two for tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25', 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about $172 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of June 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
19.       Th,e interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in iLts lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructurie
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)  to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the Report and Recommendation
of the President on a proposed loan of $148 million for the Tenth High-
way Project (Report No. P-2452a-YU) dated March 15, 1979 and approved
March 27, 1979.



- 8 -
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly  -e
towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural sector in pan.Lcu ar.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to nal.,>w
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. Moreover, lending to regions other than
the LDRs frequently has had as its basis the alleviation of disparities be-
tween the urban and rural areas. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as
the Tenth Highway Project (approved March 27, 1979), the Bosanska-Krajina
Agriculture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the
Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third
and Fourth Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as
operations envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans
for water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural
development, emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs.
Previously approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway
Project (Fiscal Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also
Fiscal Year 1978), as well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in
Fiscal Year 1977, will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in
the transport and energy sectors. This proposed Croatia Sava Drainage Project
will increase incomes of the disadvantaged rural population in a relatively
well developed region and reduce the disparities in incomes between the rural
and urban population. IFC is currently investigating several new investment
opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical,
management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.



23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need tc encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the! indi-
vidual farming sector.  It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infraLstructural facilities.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number oi- develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for agricultural credits, irriga-
tion and rural development will support agriculture development in general and
in particular, the individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs cf all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumtbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impaci: on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YUJ) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Trans.nission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension c" the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces.



- 10 -
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of interna-
tional confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and prospects.
In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agroindustrial
projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibilities for
attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly productive
sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those which generate
or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 9.2 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1976 and is projected to be about 6
percent by 1980.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia 1/
29.       The agriculture sector grew at an average rate of about 3.8 percent
during 1970-77, occupied over one-third of the Yugoslav population and
accounted for around 15 percent of the GMP (Gross Material Product) 2/. In
view of continuing rural poverty and emerging food deficits, increasing
emphasis is being placed upon accelerating agricultural development. The
1976-80 Plan projects an increase in the growth rate to about 4 percent over
the period.
30.       The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently varied, rang-
ing from cultivation of wheat, maize and sugar beets in the fertile plains,
1/   This section of the report is substantially unchanged from that in the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Bosanska Krajina Agri-
culture and Agroindustries Project (Report No. P-2361A-YU) dated September
20, 1978 and approved October 3, 1978.
2/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 11 -
to livestock rearing in the upland pastures, and cultivation of sub-tropical
crops and fruits along the Adriatic Coast and in the catchment basin oE the
Aegean Sea.
31.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual sectors. The social sector, which grew out of postwar
collectivization, operates under principles of social ownership of the means
of production and workers' self-management. It includes kombinats (integrated
farms and processing facilities), cooperatives and research institutions.
This sector produces one-third of total agricultural output, controls 15
percent of agricultural land, and employs about 6 percent of agricultural
man-power. In contrast, the individual sector, which owns 85 percent of the
cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of agricultural manpower, is
handicapped by small, fragmented and poor quality landholdings, and has been
neglected in terms of access to basic infrastructure, financing and tech-
nology. The Government now recognizes that further significant growth in
production will have to emanate from the individual sector, and has launched
programs in agricultural credit and extension, cooperation with the social
sector and marketing services.
32.       Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy rests with the
republics and provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal Committee
for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal Executive
Council with the rank of Minister. The Committee sets the principles for
development, establishes major policies, links the agricultural sector with
the overall national development plan and is responsible for coordination of
agrarian policy, legislation and prices and exports. There is also att the
Federal level the Federal Chamber of Economy, within which there is EL unit
dealing with the agricultural sector which includes specialized committees.
The responsibilities of these committees are to promote coordination in such
specialized areas as research, planning and finance. The Federal Chamber of
Economy attempts to ensure overall coordination within the economy. Chambers
of Economy also exist at the republican/provincial levels; like the Federal
Chamber of Economy, they comprise social sector enterprises and, as such, seek
to achieve maximum self-management coordination among and serve as intermedia-
ries between, enterprises in the negotiation of "social compacts" within their
respective republics/provinces. They also examine all legislation to be placed
before the respective assemblies, forecast markets, provide economic services
and scrutinize plans of enterprises. At the local level, the commune is the
link between the community and enterprises, and seeks to reconcile the various
interests of the enterprises and the community.
33.       Due to decentralized decision making, all functions associated with
policy implementation rest with autonomous self-governing organizations, such
as kombinats and cooperatives, which implement production and investment plans.
Even though it accounts for only about 15 percent of total cultivated land,
the social sector is the primary medium for policy implementation regarding
production and investments, since it has a virtual monopoly of technicians,
management skills and production processing and marketing activities outside
the small-scale sector.



- 12 -
Agricultural Policy in Croatia
34.       In Croatia, agricultural development in both the social and indi-
vidual sectors has been hampered by the need for drainage in the Sava River
Basin where subsoils with low permeability prevent the realization of full
crop production potential. The need for extensive flood control and surface
drainage along with ancillary pumping facilities and protective dikes is
clearly evident. It is estimated that about 550,000 ha of land in SR Croatia
suffer from drainage problems. In some areas the land is not utilized for
cropping because of an absence of drainage. Together with land development
and consolidation, drainage would be particularly beneficial to the individual
sector. Moreover, in many regions drainage and land consolidation would be a
precondition for efficient mechanization of both the individual and social
sectors. The project area is the first of several potential areas in the Sava
River Basin, the development of which SR Croatia plans to implement in stages
over a period of at least 20 years. The proposed project represents the first
stage of this plan and is intended to serve as a prototype for follow-up
projects in SR Croatia and the other Republics/Provinces drained by the Sava
River.
35.       In the project area comprising about 61,000 ha of land, of which
44,000 ha are to be drained, agricultural production is based on rainfed
agriculture. Dominant crops are maize, wheat and some rape seed on the 1,600
ha cropped by social sector enterprises. About 12,800 ha of arable land is
cropped by individual farmers, mainly for cereal production and fodder crops
and vegetables. Because of the drainage problems in the project area, most of
the remaining usable land of approximately 29,600 ha is used only for the
production of hay and extensive grazing. Yields in the individual sector
farms are substantially lower than in the social sector because of traditional
production methods and inputs used and the lack of adequate services. It is
projected that with the land consolidation program the average number of plots
per farm will decrease from 10 to 2 and the average farm size will increase
from 3.5 ha to 4.9 ha per farm thus contributing to an increase in labor pro-
ductivity.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
36.       It has been part of the Bank's strategy in Yugoslavia for some years
to find ways of assisting with the development of agriculture, with a special
emphasis on helping the individual farmer. The 1973 Plan, as revised in 1976,
provides a suitable framework for Bank lending, since it aims, by explicitly
supporting the individual farmer sector, to promote more even income distribu-
tion within the sector.
37.       The proposed Croatia Sava Drainage Project would represent the
eighth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia. Since
1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector in Yugoslavia,
the Bank has financed two nationwide agricultural credit projects (Loans Nos.
1129-YU and 1477-YU), four agriculture and agro-industry projects in Mace-
donia, Montenegro and Bosnia-Herzegovina (Loans Nos. 894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU
and 1621-YU), as well as four irrigation and multipurpose projects with agri-
cultural components (Loans Nos. 777-YU, 1262-YU, 1360-YU and 1616-YU). The



- 13 -
Bank's involvement in these projects has been both in the social and irLdi-
vidual sectors. As summarized in Annex II, these projects are proceeding
satisfactorily. The mix between involvement in the social and individual
agricultural sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia has been determined in
each particular case by the Federal and Republican/Provincial Governments'
own efforts for the social and individual farmer sectors and the relatilve
investment requirements in each Republic or Province to bring about a balanced
agricultural development between primary production and processing capability.
Performance Under First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects in Croaltia
38.       The proposed loan will be the first Bank loan for drainage in
Yugoslavia and the project will serve as a prototype for further drainage
projects in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Zagrebacka Banka (ZB), the
proposed borrower under this project, and its predecessors are participating
in the Bank's First and Second (nationwide) Agricultural Credit Projecits in
Yugoslavia (Loan No. 1129-YU in 1975 and 1477-YU in 1977). In Croatia, ZB is
the lead bank of five Croatian banks which are implementing the loans. In
both of these projects funds were made available through the various partic-
ipating banks for lending to social sector enterprises and individual farmers
in the agricultural sector. The funds were provided to finance increases in
production, improvements in product quality and increased productivity and
incomes, especially on individual farms. Under the two projects, the five
banks led by ZB have been allocated $10.2 million and $10.7 million out of
total loan amounts of $50 million and $75 million respectively. Performance
under the first project has been slowed down because of the pending reorga-
nization into one institution of the five banks involved. At the end of March
1979, 92 percent of funds available to Croatia under the project had been
committed and about 61 percent disbursed. This was less than the average
performance of the other banks involved in the Project and was mainly attri-
butable to the initial steps being taken to reorganize the Croatian banks into
a single entity. Although this reorganization is still in progress, admin-
istrative arrangements were made in 1978 to speed up disbursements whereby ZB
has been designated lead bank to coordinate the loans for the five Croatian
banks. As a result, under the second project which became effective in
January 1978, the Croatian banks' relative performance has improved. At the
end of April 1979 about 26 percent of Croatia's part of the loan had been
committed which was at the average level of the participating banks, although
disbursements have not yet begun. ZB's performance as lead bank for the
Croatian banks has been satisfactory and it has the demonstrated capability
to undertake its responsibilities under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project is located in the Sava River Basin of SR
Croatia (see Map - IBRD 14150). The Sava River Basin, draining much of the
Republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and parts of the
Republics of Serbia and Montenegro and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina,
covers about 37 percent of Yugoslavia. Flooding and droughts are common,
causing frequent instability of production. Solutions to prevent Sava River



- 14 -
flooding and enable drainage of swampy surrounding areas have been sought for
over 200 years. Serious flooding of the major towns in the region in the
1960s led to a study of possible solutions being carried out through UN
Special Fund technical assistance. Priority works for the period 1976-80
were established by the Coordinating Committee of the Sava River, a committee
established at the Federal level and comprising Republican/Provincial authori-
ties responsible for water economy. The principal burden of flood control
falls on SR Croatia, which also has the most extensive and well-developed
program for flood control and ancillary activities. A major part of the flood
control measures has already been completed. The necessary remainder is part
of the proposed project. The Sava River Authority (OVP) prepared the proposed
project with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program staff and IBRD
staff. The project was appraised in October/November 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington in May and June, 1979. The Yugoslav delegation was led by
Mr. Marijan Strbasic, Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, Croatia. Annex
III summarizes key events leading to Board presentation, special Bank actions
needed for project implementation and the special conditions provided for in
the Loan and Project Agreements.
Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
40.       The project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report
"Croatia Sava Drainage Project", Report No. 2448a-YU, dated August 8, 1979
which is being distributed separately to Executive Directors.
41.       The project is the first flood control and drainage project in
Yugoslavia to be assisted by the Bank. It would protect the project area from
excess water and drain 44,000 ha of land, increasing available arable land by
19,700 ha and leading to increased crop yields and cropping intensity on the
remaining 24,300 ha. Of the total land available after project implementa-
tion, 25,500 ha would belong to the individual sector, 14,500 ha to the social
sector and the remaining 4,000 ha to non-agricultural households which partly
use their land for agriculture. The project is designed to assist in the
development of the Sava River Basin by financing investment in drainage infra-
structure and on-farm development to increase land and labor productivity
and income of the rural population in the project area to levels approaching
averages of regions without drainage problems, and to increase production of
crops and livestock products primarily for the domestic market with the aim of
achieving self-sufficiency in agricultural products. Other objectives include
the strengthening of the capabilities of OVP through provision of technical
assistance, the training of key staff and the introduction of a unified train-
ing and visit extension service which could, if successful, be used as an
example for other areas in Yugoslavia.
Detailed Description
42.       The project will consist of five main components:



- 15 -
(a) Project works: Construction of about 220 km of major channels,
325 km of collector drains and 1,620 km of smaller drainage
channels together with all the required embankments, pumping
stations, bridges, culverts and dirt roads.
(b) On-farm development credit: A program of subloans to individual
subborrowers to finance land improvements including sub-surface
drains, livestock development and farm machinery purchases; on
a,bout 1,500 individual farms and to social sector subborrowers to
f'inance land clearing and levelling and sub-surface drains on about
12,300 ha, farm machinery, four new farmyards and a total of about
35 km of access roads.
(c) Equipment: Provision to OVP and its associated organizat:Lons of
equipment for construction and operation and maintenance of project
works, vehicles and equipment for offices, laboratories and field
tests.  The main items of equipment would be two heavy draglines
End six drain layers which would increase OVP's constructLon capac-
iLty and would be utilized for the construction of drainag,e works
iLncluded in the project and in extensions to the project.
(d) (Consultants and Training Abroad: Funds would be provided for 14
man-months of consultants (US$7,500 per man month) to (i) carry
out investigations for drainage works, review drainage design and
analyze data collected through the monitoring system; and (ii) help
establish an effective extension service. Selected staff would be
trained abroad.
(e)  Management and Technical Services:  This component would include
project administration, land consolidation, technical design,
extension service and project monitoring.
Project Organization and Management
43.       Institutional Arrangements.  The proposed loan would be channelled
through Zagrebacka Banka (ZB), the Borrower. ZB would on-lend the Bank funds,
together with its own resources, (a) to the Sava River Authority (CIVP), the
Self-Managed Water Economy Interest Community of the Sava River (SNVIZ-Sava)
and four Self-Managed Water Economy Interest Communities of the Catchment
Areas (SIZs) for project works, equipment and consultants and overseas train-
ing, and (b) to individual farmers and social sector enterprises fcr on-farm
development investments.
44.       ZB, formed January 1978, is the legal successor to the former
Kreditna Banka, Zagreb and Jugobanka-Main Branch, Zagreb. ZB is the major
source of credit to the agricultural sector in SR Croatia. As of mid-1978
its total assets were $3.7 billion. ZB is one of the participating banks in
the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans Nos. 1129--YU and
1477-YU) a,nd its organization, management, business policies and fi.nancial
condition are satisfactory (see paragraph 38).



- 16 -
45.       OVP, the water resource management agency for the Sava River Basin,
is a financially autonomous enterprise under the Secretariat of Water Economy
of SR Croatia. Its main responsibilities are to perform operation and main-
tenance work, flood control operations and construction of flood control and
drainage infrastructure. It is managed by a director and comprises seven
BOALs (see paragraph 3) of which four function in the project area. OVP
would be in charge of project implementation and overall coordination of the
various entities specifically responsible for carrying out the drainage works
and operation and maintenance of drainage systems. It would finalize designs,
prepare bid documents, evaluate bids, coordinate and supervise construction of
all civil works components of the project, construct by force account major
drainage works and carry out adequate operation and maintenance of works in
the project area. It would also support the land consolidation program and
coordinate all project construction activities with this program, form an
agricultural extension service for the project area, and implement the train-
ing program for selected technical staff for subsurface drains and extension
services. OVP's total revenues are derived from civil work contracts and
funds obtained from local SIZs (see paragraph 47 below). Its overall finan-
cial position is sound.
46.       OVP would carry out its designated functions through its normal
organizational channels. However, to handle the additional work created by
the project, a project unit (PU) would be established no later than March 31,
1980 under an experienced and qualified director to perform or coordinate all
necessary actions to implement the project. The PU would have adequate staff
and would operate under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (see Project
Agreement, Section 2.01(b)). The PU director-designate participated in
negotiations. Short-term specialist consultants would be employed to assist
OVP to set up an effective extension service and to carry out investigations,
design review and monitoring of sub-surface drainage (see Project Agreement,
Section 2.02).
47.       SIZs are regional drainage user associations of which all farms in
the catchment areas are members. Each SIZ is independently responsible for
its own financial obligations. They are responsible for making decisions in
relation to new drainage investments and operation and maintenance of drainage
works and for collection of funds from users. SVIZ-Sava is the flood control
association for the Sava River Basin and as such is responsible for making
investment decisions in relation to flood control and collecting funds from
social sector enterprises in the Sava River Basin. As associations, SIZs
and SVIZ-Sava have no staff and therefore must employ contractors and/or the
four BOALs within OVP to construct project works and carry out operation and
maintenance.
48.       Social sector enterprises undertaking on-farm development invest-
ments, SIZs, SVIZ-Sava and OVP have formed together into a community of
associated labor to carry out the project (see Loan Agreement, Recital B).
Implementation
49.       Subprojects in the individual farm sector would normally be sub-
mitted to ZB by social sector enterprises or cooperatives which would aggre-
gate investment proposals of several farmers with whom they have a cooperation



- 17 -
agreement and which would borrow on their behalf.  Subloan requests for social
sector enterlprises would be directly submitted to ZB, except for subsurface
pipe drains which would be submitted to ZB through the PU. ZB would carry
out full appraisal of each subloan request for on-farm development (with the
exception of the technical appraisal of subsurface drainage investments for
which OVP would be responsible). For each social sector subproject ZB, with
assistance of consultants as needed, would prepare a technical report and
evaluation. ZB would submit to the Bank for review and approval, its appraisal
reports for agricultural credit subprojects whose total costs exceed $1.5
million. ZB would supervise on-farm development subloans to ensure adLequate
technical and financial supervision of the subprojects during and after
construction and would prepare a supervision report satisfactory to the Bank
(see Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and Section 3 of Schedule 4).  ZB has a
satisfactory level of experience in appraising agricultural subprojects under
Bank-financed projects as well as under its other operations. Since 1976, its
staff has handled appraisals of agro-industry sub-projects and agricultural
sub-projects in the individual and social sectors according to the Bank's
appraisal requirements and is continuing to undergo training in appraisal
techniques tmder the two Bank-financed projects in which ZB is involved.
50.       The standards of operation and maintenance in the project area are
at present :Lnadequate. Therefore, under the project, OVP which is ressponsible
for carrying out operation and maintenance of drainage works for the SIZs
would initiate a program to provide adequate operation and maintenance service
in the project area through the purchase of equipment for the BOALs which
would perform operation and maintenance work under the technical direction of
the PU (see Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
51.       At present extension activities in the project area are fragmented
and generally weak. During project implementation, therefore, OVP would
organize within the PU a unified extension service for the 5,200 farmers in
the project area (see Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)). To implement the
proposed program of training and visits, generalist extension workers would
work through groups of individual farmers. Farmers in this part of Yugoslavia
are particularly community-minded and hence communication between lead farmers
and other farmers in the group could be expected to be effective. Group
sessions would be supported by visits to demonstration farms and meetings
conducted by specialists. With crops, the extension service would c:oncentrate
on use of fertilizer; with livestock, attention would be given to buildings
and feeding systems.
52.       Ihe PU with the assistance of consultants, would provide training
and technical assistance to extension agents and technical staff involved in
investigations, design review and monitoring of subsurface drainage and would
also establish a technical support unit for the training of extension workers.
The PU would also select key staff for training abroad.
53.       ]3ecause of the irregular and scattered number of individual hold-
ings, a land consolidation program would be part of the project. Prior to the
beginning of construction in each specific area an agreement to consolidate
land would be obtained from participating farmers. No problems are antici-
pated because during project preparation, farmers in the project area have



- 18 -
been consulted on land consolidation measures and almost all expressed readi-
ness to cooperate in these actions. However, should difficulties arise as
they have in some regions of Yugoslavia, the commission appointed by the
municipal authorities has the power under the SR Croatia Agricultural Land Use
and Consolidation Act of 1979 to carry out land consolidation without the con-
sent of land owners for the specific purpose of soil reclamation. OVP would
cause the communes to carry out the land consolidation program and would coor-
dinate this program with the project works (see Project Agreement, Section
2.01(a)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       There is an urgent requirement for the OVP to investigate soil pro-
files and permeabilities, groundwater conditions and drain performance for
the development of design criteria for effective subsurface drainage at least
cost (see also paragraph 70 below). OVP has agreed (a) no later than March
31, 1980 to submit to the Bank for its review a drainage investigation and
subsurface drain monitoring program to measure the effectiveness of different
types, spacing and depth of existing and new subsurface drains in various soil
categories; (b) to implement such programs taking into account the Bank's
comments; and (c) to proceed with large scale subsurface pipe drain invest-
ments only as and when the Bank has agreed upon their technical aspects (see
Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
55.       Although OVP would be responsible for monitoring the project works
and subsurface drains, ZB would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation
of the project's credit component and for this purpose would establish a man-
agement information system (see Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The monitor-
ing system would focus on the realization of the project against the targets
established during the appraisal, and would identify issues and potential
implementation problems for resolution. The results of evaluation would be
used for the design of possible follow-up projects. Within six months of the
end of the project, ZB, in cooperation with OVP, would submit to the Bank a
project completion report (see Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b) and Project
Agreement, Section 2.05(c)).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
56.       The estimated total cost of the project, including physical and
price contingencies, but excluding interest during construction is about
$133 million, with an estimated foreign exchange component of $51 million
or 39 percent. The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated
at $17 million. A physical contingency of 15 percent has been allowed on the
construction of subsurface drains and 10 percent on all other items except
the individual farm credit component where no physical contingency has been
applied. A total price contingency of 27 percent on base cost price plus
physical contingencies has been included in project costs to meet expected
inflation in foreign and local costs during the project implementation period
of five years. Details of the cost estimates are shown in the Loan and
Project Summary.
57.       The Bank loan of $51 million would be limited to the foreign
exchange component of the project. ZB would provide 41 percent ($55 million),
and on-farm development credit subborrowers, OVP, SVIZ-Sava, SIZs and/or



- 19 -
Communes 20 percent ($27 million) of total project costs. The Bank loan would
be made to ZEB for 15 years including 3 years of grace with interest at 7.9
percent. The foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by SR
Croatia for individual sector subborrowers for their on-farm development
credit componient and by the social sector subborrowers, OVP, SVIZ-Sava and the
SIZs for all other components. ZB would take adequate steps to protect itself
against the exchange risks on subloan repayments accruing earlier than amorti-
zation payments of the Bank loan (see Loan Agreement, Section 5.05). For the
on-farm cred:it component ZB would on-lend the loan proceeds to individual
farmers and social sector enterprises and ZB would be responsible for meeting
the seasonal credit requirements for each subborrower during implementation of
the project. ZB would on-lend the loan proceeds to individual and social
sector subborrowers at an effective rate of 11 percent through charging an
on-lending interest rate of 9 percent and a fee of 2 percent per annum for
guarantee and other operations performed by ZB. It would lend local funds at
a minimum of 5 percent and 6 percent to individual and social sector subbor-
rowers respectively. The terms of the loans would be related to the cash flow
projections cf each subproject, ranging from 3 to 15 years including up to 5
years of grace on repayments of principal (see Loan Agreement, Section 2 of
Schedule 4). For all other components of the project ZB would on-lend the
loan proceeds to OVP, SVIZ-Sava and SIZs at a spread of at least 0.5 percent
above the Bank loan rate of 7.9 percent to ZB to cover administrative costs
(see Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b) and (c)). Loans to OVP for equipment
would be for a period of 8 years with a grace period of 3 years while the
other infrastructure sub-loans would be for 15 years with a grace period of
5 years. As a condition of effectiveness, six Subsidiary Loan Agreeraents to
reflect these arrangements would be entered into between ZB and OVP, SVIZ-Sava
and the four SIZs (see Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
58.       Thte annual inflation rate for Yugoslavia in 1978 is estimated to
have been about 13 percent and the actual annual inflation rates in L977 and
1976 were 13 percent and 9 percent respectively.  The projected annual rate of
inflation fcr the next three years is estimated to be 12 percent.  On-lending
interest rates of commercial banks are about 10-12 percent for funds from
domestic and foreign sources and 4-5 percent from funds available through
budgetary transfers. The on-lending rates to the social sector under the on-
farm development credit component of this project result in a minimum blend
rate of 9 percent which is not expected to be negative in real terms given
that the social sector enterprises would also be bearing the foreign exchange
risk on Bank funds.  For the individual sector, the rates, though higher than
those charged by local banks, will nevertheless not result in positive real
rates. The introduction of the new system of planning in Yugoslavia which
embodies a process of harmonization of investment programs through direct
negotiations between enterprises, raises questions about the precise role of
interest raltes in the allocative process. This issue of the role of interest
rates is currently being analyzed in a special study being undertaken under
the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1477-YU). As an interim
measure, however, it was agreed that uniform floor interest rates be set for
on-lending of local funds, a policy that has been pursued in subsequent agri-
cultural an,d industrial credit projects. Therefore, it has been decided,
pending the findings of the study, to maintain on-lending rates for the on-
farm development credit component of the project at the same level as those
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project.



Cost Recovery
59.       Since the benefits of flood control will accrue to an area wider
than the project area, the Self-Managed Water Economy Interest Community of
the Sava River (SVIZ-Sava) will repay about 40 percent of capital costs fo
main drains and pumping stations from its own funds derived principally from
its overall river basin charges.  The subsurface drains included in the on-
farm development component are to be financed by credit from ZB and are fully
repaid by the beneficiaries.  Recovery of the capital and operation and main-
tenance costs of the other drainage components of the project will be effected
through four types of charges: (i) a project charge will be paid by both the
individual and social sectors to the local communities over a period of two
years for partial coverage of capital costs of the project; (ii) a water
charge as a percentage of value added will be payable by all social sector
enterprises to SVIZ-Sava; (iii) by law both the individual and social sectors
pay to the local Self-Managed Water Economy Interest Community (SIZ) an annual
drainage charge which must fully cover O&M costs; and (iv) individual farmers
pay a land tax to local communities based on the land's estimated productivity
which will increase with the project. These combined charges will result in a
Cost Recovery Index 1/ of 32 percent for the capital and operation and main-
tenance costs of the project works. As SVIZ-Sava is repaying a sustantial
amount of the capital costs, this level of cost recovery compares favorably
with other projects of a similar nature financed by the Bank. Given the rela-
tively tight cash flow position of the social sector enterprises and their
overall financial rate of return of only about 11 percent, higher charges
are not justifiable for the social sector. While the cash flow position of
individual farmers could conceivably permit a higher recovery, the average
individual farmer's income is much lower than the social sector staff income
and higher charges would not be justified on equity grounds.
Markets
60.       Because of its proximity to Zagreb, the project area has direct
access to a substantial domestic market of over one million people, to well
developed agro-processing industries and to exporters. Virtually all the
incremental project production would be consumed in Zagreb and the surrounding
area where existing and future capacity for processing local food crops is
substantially under-utilized. Expanded production of certain crops (such as
cereal and rape oil seed) may require expansion of drying facilities which
would be made as normal commercial investments. Agricultural products from
the agrokombinats would normally pass directly to the commercial processing
and marketing agencies. For the produce from individual farmers there would
normally be an intermediary, either a cooperative or the cooperative depart-
ment of a kombinat. No problems are expected in the physical transport and
marketing of produce from the project area. Buying agencies are active and
marketing margins (which in most cases are limited by law) are reasonable.
1/   The Cost Recovery Index is defined as the ratio of present worth of
incremental project charges paid by farmers to present worth of incre-
mental project construction and O&M costs over a 40-year evaluation
period at a 10 percent annual rate of discount.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audit
61.       ZB would maintain a separate account for the project, provide for
independent examination and obtain an opinion from independent auditors on
whether or not the funds have been used for the purposes provided. The
accounts of ZB are audited annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK),
as required by Yugoslav law. A full and qualified audit report on ZB for 1977
was completed by SDK following generally accepted standards. OVP would estab-
lish appropriate record keeping and reporting procedures for the PU. OVP
would maintain separate accounts for all financial transactions under the
project which would also be subject to annual audit by SDK. Both ZR, and OVP
would submit audit reports to the Bank within six months from the en,d of each
fiscal year.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Contracts for construction of project works (apart from force
account work discussed in paragraph 63 below) costing about $33 million and
purchase of major items of construction and operation and maintenance equip-
ment (about $6 million) would be procured by OVP and on-farm machinery for
social sector enterprises (about $11 million) would be procured by ZB through
internatiorLal competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guide:Lines.
Construction equipment would include six drain layers and two draglines. The
lower of a 15 percent preference or prevailing customs duty margin would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equipment under
international competitive bidding. Procurement for individual purchases of
equipment not exceeding $100,000 in value up to an aggregate value Df $1 mil-
lion for the project would be allowed in accordance with applicable local
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Terms of reference and qualifi-
cations of consultants and training courses and study tours abroad ($0.2
million) would be subject to Bank approval for financing from the loan.
63.       Construction of subsurface drains, and works to be performed by two
heavy draglines to be financed under the project for about 220 km of major
channels anad river channels and about 325 km of collector drains (about $17
million) would be carried out by OVP under force account. There has been a
general lack of interest displayed by international contractors for this type
of civil works in Yugoslavia even for larger contracts of this type. Local
contracting for the construction of interceptor drains and other major drain-
age channels and for the enlarging of capacities of natural streams would be
more expensive and time consuming than force account. Local contractors lack
appropriate equipment for these works, which necessitates rehandling of
excavated materials and, therefore, makes such excavation more expensive.
The OVP Construction Unit has experience in operating construction machinery
and the acquisition of the new machinery would vpgrade its technical expe-
rience and provide equipment which would also be used for follow-up projects.
The need fior flexibility on installing subsurface drains combined with the
critical timing and seasonality of the construction period, and lack of local
contractors with the requisite skills leaves force account as the only prac-
tical method for carrying out this work.



- 22 -
64.       Procurenment of items under the individual farmer on-farm credit com-
ponent (about $6 million) would be made through existing commercial channels
under negotiated npircha-se or other local procedures. No individual contract
is expected to exceed the equivalent of $100,000. Items financed under the
individual farmer credit component would not be suitable for bulk purchase and
international competitive bidding because of size and phasing of subprojects.
65.       Procurement in accordance with competitive bidding advertised
loca'-ly would be appropriate for the remaining items consisting mainly of
far-myards, access roads, land clearing and levelling, vehicles, and office,
laboratory and field test equipment (about $9 million). Procurement for
individual contracts and purchases of equipment not exceeding $100,000 would
be allowed in accordance with applicable local procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank.
66.       Bank disbursements would extend over 5 years.  An estimated dis-
bursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary. Disbursement
from the loan would be made against 39 percent of total costs for major proj-
ect works, including works performed by OVP under force account; 59 percent of
amounts disbursed by ZB to social sector enterprises for on-farm development
and 36 percent of amounts disbursed by ZB to individual farmers for on-farm
development; for equipment 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent
of local expenditures, exfactory and 60 percent of local expenditures for
imported goods; and 100 percent of total expenditures for consultants and
training courses held abroad.
Benefits and Risks
67.       The economic benefits of the project would stem from switching
19,700 ha of previously undrained low yielding permanent grassland into arable
land and from increases in yields and an increase of about 6 percent in
cropping intensity on the remaining 24,300 ha drained under the project. The
parallel establishment of an effective extension service and a land consolida-
tioIl program would reinforce the productivity improvements. Of the total land
available after project implementation, 14,500 ha would belong to the social
sector, 25,500 ha to individual farmers and 4,000 ha to nonagricultural house-
holds which partly use their land for agriculture. The main beneficiaries
of the proiect would be some 5,200 farmers in the individual sector, five
kombinats, a plant breeding institute and a pilot farm. The per capita agri-
cultural annual income of farmers would increase by over 70 percent from about
11,800 dinars ($657) to about 20,300 dinars ($1,130) at full development.
Currently the social sector kcmbinats in the project area incur net losses of
about $0.5 million per year f .om their crop production operations mainly
because of drainage problems. It is estimated that at full production the
social sector would realize an average of $4.1 million of annual net benefits
and would be in a liquid financial position in its crop production operations
by the fifth year of the project. Indirect benefits would accrue to agro-
industries mainly outside the project area and some 8,000 non-farm families
in the project area for whom the risk of flooding of food gardens would be
reduced.



- 23 -
68.       ThLe project would also increase employment for unemployed and under-
employed family members of the 5,200 farmers, thus increasing their :Lncomes,
and would create additional employment in the social sector.  From the
national standpoint, the project would support the Government's plans of
increasing grain and livestock production, and would also help to reduce
disparities between urban and rural areas. Since this would be the Eirst of
a series of drainage projects in the Sava River Basin, the participating
agencies would gain experience under the project which would be valuable
later.
69.       The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of
forecast changes in agricultural production on the 44,000 ha drained under
the project compared with the agricultural situation without the project. The
economic cost stream includes drainage infrastructure, on-farm development,
investment in farm machinery, project administration, incremental costs of
extension and banking services, the operation and maintenance of the drainage
system and the incremental agricultural operating costs. The economic analysis
of the project is calculated over a 40-year period. The best estimate of the
overall ERR for the whole project, with shadow pricing of family labor and
foreign exchange, is 17 percent. Without shadow pricing of family labor and
foreign exchange, the ERR would be 15 percent.
70.       The main risks to the economic success of the project lie in the
estimation of benefits. Decreases in project commodity prices, or the
achievement of substantially lower yields than those forecast would lead to
a significant reduction in the project's rate of return. The possibility of
part of the! land in the social sector being unsuitable for mechanized crop-
ping, even after drainage, exists. However, even if this figure were as high
as 20 percent of the land in the social sector, the rate of return would only
be 2 percent lower. Since subsurface drain effectiveness has not yet been
fully investigated in the project area, there is a risk that drains to be
implemented in the first year of the project may not be designed at least
cost. However, the risk that part of the investments in an area of about
1,000 ha costing about $1.3 million in mid-1979 prices may not be imple-
mented at :Least cost must be weighed against the costs for new drainage
investigatLons and loss of benefits due to postponement of a project with
85 percent of the investment costs demonstrated to have little uncertainty.
The possibility of overrun of construction costs exists but adequate physical
contingencies have been included in the economic rate of return calculation.
Changes in the investment costs in the range considered would have little
impact on the overall ERR. Other risks are very low. The executing agency,
OVP, is a well established body with considerable engineering experience;
the kombinats in the area are well staffed with agriculturalists; and, most
important, the individual farmers are experienced and skilled in the type of
agriculture to be practiced under the project. Overall, the project can be
seen to be insensitive to most changes, although a 15 percent reduction in
benefits with no change in costs would bring the ERR close to 11 percent.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Zagrebacka Banka; the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Opce Vodoprivredno Poduzece
Za Vodno Podrucje Sliva-Save; the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
72.       Provisions in the agreements of special interest are noted in para-
graphs 43 through 66 of this report and the most important provisions are
listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness for
the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) is that Six Subsidiary Loan
Agreements would be entered into between ZB and OVP, SVIZ-Sava and the four
SIZs.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
August 14, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 25-                                                  Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TADLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AfE RAE S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.) jMUGSLAVIA                                          - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             255.8                                                      SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      143.2                                   MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    380.0       840.0    1960.0             2154.0      1748.5      2754.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       872.0       1459.0    2016.0            2033.2      1646.7       2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       18.4         20.4       21.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9           34.8       38.4             56.3        51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPJLATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          26.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         72.0         80.0       85.0             81.5        28.2         33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0          139.0      152.0            138.8       100.5         91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           30.5         27.4       25.0             25.6        35.4         33.3
15-64 YRS.                           63.2         64.8       66.0             62.9        56.3         57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     6.3          7.8        9.0             10.2         5.1          5.7
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.2          1.0        0.9              0.9         1.7          2.1
URBAN                                3.6          3.2        3.0              2.6         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH BATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0         19.0       18.0             18.5        27.5         31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       10.0          9.n        9.0              9.2         9.1          8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4           1.3       1.1              1.2         1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ;.           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMFN)    ..           59.0         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEE CAPITA (1969-71=1001            83.6         92.0      120.0            115.7       102.0         98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
itEQUIREMENTS)                   115.0        124.0      136.0            134.2       120.8        112.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)            91.0         92.0       97.5             95.4        80.9         70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.0         29.0       35.4             45.4        31.3
CHILI) (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.0          3.0        2.0              1.3         5.1          2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0           67.7       69.0             70.O        65.6         68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             88.0         55.5       35.0             31.5        45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPlI_ATION)
CTorAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..        69.4         73.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..        85.1         94.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..        43.0         64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..               ..        70.1
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..        88.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..        33.2 2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            141)0.0 /f  I1)1.0       790.0            661 .6     1343.2        981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       U115..) /f    410.0      39n.0            677.1       7h65.1       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             21 1).(       175."      170.0             8D.1       197.6        240).6
URBAN                                 ..         70.1       71.0                ..      260.2
RURAL                                 . .      1610.0    1770.()               . .     1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        17.0       17w              15.3        17.3         19.2
HOUSING(
AVERAGE SIZE (F HOUSEHOLD
TO'TAL                               4. r         3.8        3.8                ..        4.7
U88AN                                1.3          3.2        3.3               . .        4.4
RURAL                                4.4          4.3        4.1               ..         S.1
AVERAGE NLMBER 0) PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAI                               I            1h 1.4      ..               ..         1.1
URBAN                                1.7          1.3         ..               ..         1.2
RISRA 1                                            .1         .. I.
A4( )0 0S TO' OI.[TR I !TY (PERCENT
(IF DWEI I-110S)
T53TAI11.4                                       55.5         ..               ..        AS..
8)5A.                               4_. I        81.1          .RSAN
Rl RAI                               h.18L                     ..                           ..



- 26 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                              Page  2  of  6  pages
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AY1ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  96.0         94.0       97.0            105.7       101.7        107.6
MALE                  100.0         98.0      100.0            107.1       110.0
FEMALE                 91.0         89.0      94.0             104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   34.0         46.0      55.0              65.9        51.2         39.7
MALE                  43.0          50.0      59.0              70.3        56.4
FEMALE                24.0         42.0       50.0              62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  72.0            72.0       75.0             20.4        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0          24.0      22.0              26.7        27.1
SECONDARY                            13.0         27.0      30.0                ..        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          77.0         83.0       85.0               ..        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          35.0      80.3             105.5        53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          85.0         163.0     210.0             233.7       225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.4         88.0      161.0            148.0       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    69.0         85.0       89.0               ..        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0             4.0        3.8              6.4         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8345.0        9175.0/g  9779.0/g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35.0          36.5      36.3              32.3        24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                63.7         49.8       42.0             25.8        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  23.5          29.2      34.0              33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  45.4         45.0       45.9             37.6        33.8         40.1
MALE                                   60.3         58.3       59.4             57.0        51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                 31.0         32.3       32.7             28.0        16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0.8        0.7               1.0         1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECFIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/h          15.1/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/h          41.4/i    40.0/j            47.9        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/h           6.6/i     6.5/j             5.0         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/h          18.4/i    18.4/j            15.4        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..      550.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     420.0             436.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe;   /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /e  High Income (over $2500 per capita,
1976);   /f  1962;   /g  Including migrant workers working abroad;   /h  1963;   Ii  1968;   /j  1973.
May, 1979



-27-
Annex I
Page 3 of 6 pages
Notes IAl though the daIta  r  drs-t fo   sources gSamellytJudged the namt aetborltatine  and reiable, it shoul   lob   oe   htte   c   o   eitrs
tlonall  cdnenrbla busund       fth.lt  o  sedadie    dflntioeas sod toncapos used by differentP  out ise  In 1c1letine  fha dote.  Tedtase,ett                          tel
useul  o dscrbe  ndoe  f    gitd,Indicate trends, and  hbereotaricttee osrtelo  salon diffanaecc  between th.dt..otrnieh...
Th. sdtuatad orI-e  -ceocc   for eah indicto  Vra pepalseio__waibtd gesoitas,seldist the soteas valua  of the IdIcator  Ind the seapoulted
coutn  in eaoh gnoup.  Wue to ol  f dots, groupeeae  of all indicatars for Capital Su-pl.os il tupttere  ad of Lndioston  ofAcs.toteenncra
disposl    icalg, totes ditetnbatioe and Poverty fon other eusotry gop   n  pepalatcie-weiahtcd gaaentio sesan  without selso    f the st-rana valesan
the -en  Vpoplated  -on   tyhe                          orflgofcsanassemte  eictrsaead        aeisiit    f  ae  n  Isotaife.  atinsetbesecie
lntlatnsesraesOotlitdori(tl"Ie                                                                     o   o  "         d   aefu  cs           n           t A n
indicetvt at_atn    so   h   eenLflZR*J*M
ane    n 0 sF5  ceprisais  law  aeras4     am assit   ets.                    %sZsmr) of            5d~ p,IM4 W ! 541 'n"3    ;    2m 1    Zaiie'. 
Mih,img- MSt rece  estiseic f at egieclseal area NOd   eansptetily                     pee. si    I     tceatpe  at Suir  feapeeiie  pegeaisgi.   wresate disposael
r peeseenely  for crepe, pesisoes, earuat and Mashes gardane W  to                       S"  iseled  the esi4laill, seW diapesi, stigh or wighact ce'a ,,gc,af
lie  fallen.                                                        h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ass   ase"S  taS  seam-eIst by wa ter-barn  spreatess ithe .ar  of pit
pelvis a"S  atist. isagaIats,
(SPTh4la 19)- (MP per esPies aecimeas at ernfc "rihet Priema, as AIMahaA * ppetecis dinided by smeer at pnaoetiegu plysye
ii-iiia     ceverisa nibW  cc Vsrli lash Aiim  (1975-77 bMacis)                 iT        qjm   ups1i    a Sisal acasel at talvaerity joalet
1960, 1970, and 1977 doe"a                                                                        an.au a-Pglta   iies.                        by e."Gr at pnaocici
~lii1as1gnissaceeraa,   reeisal sense, aNd asciaceet ssnee.
macy C5qfllt   55 CPITA -hestsa  eatatian  of eancisi seri  (ealm                eai erhails-a r4    b                            eral    ae i   (total,
andliglco  paraas,saLmi  eeas m   hydra-, wsealr   daaiaesl                                   .I)ral   di".da  by chai  reapet. tvs    rabhsie   ade
slaotioity  is blogn   of coal eqerivacest per eapicel    Wsl.                      ewaitable is pabIle ced private  nswral end apetislised heapical WA  ra-
hebilitatise  maaesa.  ReaIa    are  setebiitsene  pareseatly  sftaffd by
ec  easat men  phypieie.  Iatabiielueece  pravidieg prisco al  ceacedial
Lama  - As Of Jsly I; iWO0, lO?0t ad                    career  not itiaded.  tefel  easpitala, hewaser, iselsie health as edt-
119,    4:4'                                                         :oItsco ~~~~~~~~~~~ee  eters catPaersonsily statted by a phyadolin  (bat by a sedicelas
________________________                  ofe   cas  t  tacal ppelaciee.            eAiesMt, safsr. etiifa, si.) hich offan  ic-patient sooinebdation  sod
Ui fanant   Ma a      ten   of ,n  areas say affect apearability oft4dote                provIde a idsiad neega ofrmdccci fecilitis.e
enn  c-eerian; 1940, 1970 and 1975 data.                                           aIisst                  a'siMt - Totel es.ber oE sdieie  too  diachergs.
twed ft         fninapiAlsdiv dadby the neat of had..
1975totl paelaian  y ae a       co ad chain saniality aSA  fertility       E D
ae-,ing  life enpucco  e  brth  Lsraci...   tub  coateryc. Per caia                     Aheaed  _astat  okaasp                -ldclesh   sn   lni   querter..
L.ocots lav1, and feats life aepcent y stsbitieie aSt 77.5 yarS.                        satd their eas ees        A boarde  r onldger say an say aoct ha icldad in ths
The prasa tere for fertility net  s ac  hens 3 iaveln aecenina decline                  haas.hed for statistical psepoese.
in Inttility e.conding to insn  tona  and past gasily plasioigtpat-                   mvans  Estrof earcens  an r           _e  - weal, orbs. Ian  rr   - Averoge o-bhe
fo-cn    tc   onry ie then eceigead ens of theee 9  _tabinaicee               atpeapa   oni  al   ra, end noe                    Znotd o-soantien     doellings'.
ofnraIty  ndfertLiteyeneMad  for projeutice pu-posee.                               -npartt-aty. Destlisas snluda a-preossent strortu.a. end ononoopind pance..
Itac.o    ... ponota_ton .  In atatlonar    opulation, there is ec groth            Itaet   tcntr   oreto  detns      oa                         ra   o   ea
eloe  hebirh   'et  is uL t  thedet  nes,ad alan the age                          Conatanl          lia   rich elcotrioity L  in hom   querters cc partotgo
etructurn  en       oana.tecc..  Thic Iacheve  sly  after fertility natas               t.tal, orban, ad rura  duntlinga. raspeotivcty.
deolin  to the replcooent tonal of unit rat aeptduotift rae t,  htan each
ecsaoo   f ea   reploace  icenlf soattly.  Th.e Startiovan   Popelatien      EVATO
cteaaee  cista  onthe heals cf e(j proloctedoheractar.ietto  of the              d,mdarotsoreo
pouscI   he  er 2000, and the rate of deln    f fartilit,y rote                 nsr   chn      od  sate an    al      Gostotl   aeadrn                         nol
to neploceant lacol.                                              sasni~-  of all cea  at thepiaylvle  panatafe  f  op-otio- pnla.an
'0rtatinr   onlt_Len teetshebd - The yet when S.tationary  .poott-                    euhol-age popolttlona; no aly toia dee childran aged 6-il years hot
clot sle  a  het  sshs.                                                                  djuos  ton diffor"nt Ieech   of Pr isry edu..atioc; for conrs    ith
PPonlatiun da...ity                                                                       universalduosnion asrlln  sy Soceed 100 paroent emma no  popile Iro
Per Qo.  e. . -ntd-yaar popolatton Per oquan  kilato 1. 100 heoteree)                    boIe or shov  the offilol. ac.o  sea.
of totl. re. ...sdr sho  - totlel sdft   - Cnuo   caoe;scnayouo
Pan so. We. asrioultot..  Iced  - cap-te  ae abov  focogiolcre   ln                     1tin   eqore` e a= t least four yar, of approvd priesry instruotton; Procidno
only.                                                           geearcl vova~~~~~~~~~~~~~-tiocal   ortcnhsrtann   isotnootion  for pupil. 0 ueu lI   f
Iouabo   c    tutued   Irofl   Cidoo0-14 yea ro7   onig-                           12 to 17yerofa: crepondeon   o-uree  aro  ...an -y e..cluded.
5-4 yers).and retre   16 vyas   sd oven)o Ce Percen.tages of sid-                vocactoacl asoil1ant lesr.oot of  ..ecndar,)  - Voational toetitotione  ioILde
verpplto;19,   1970 end 1977 date.                                             techoicet, Indoatria1, on  thar p-rogre  whioh operat  indapndeotlv  na
Poncltion arsth r.tc leorcetI - total - Aanu-algoento rctas of total                      dap-ancsts of eoc-odry i-titeicueln.
nid-y-e  populations for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-77.                               Punltaht  aI      nien   n  scnay- total etodnta strolled to
yonctaion oreth rats (qecca     - orbeo - Ascotl gr-tnf  ratee of orbor                   pris-aryand srcondery "Isrel  diid d b   teaso   aohn   ncacr
ioolnin   fr 19s-d,11   0sd9775                                                     epoding levael.
i,u  ho,  rota (uPer cbouuanl . co-ul hoc Ibinths Pot  ......d of                   Adult liteac,y rate (on-o-t) - Litereto  adults (shle to raud end witce)a
midyea   popoltlo_. 1960. .970 ao  1977 dae                                             aparcnt.ag  of total cdoIt population  gd 11 ycars andovn
Crude death na1to  ran1ttuea4.2  - Aun..aI deeths Par thousand of ed-
ye pplto.1960, 1970 and 1977 data.
Gross osarduotlo  ro ts -  vArag  oahe  o  dcb         hr  scnoill hear                 Psacenact1  cre tsr thuand1 nonulatio)    Paaost*on tare  cnpnies ector cc.r,
In ban ..-Ic repr-duoio -Period, If senpania-on   Presen.t age-                         satn-este   ih  pros                      deehlOo..e..  hotness and slitteny
epecofic fertility rates; usually tir-ya-  -.e-o.a  a.di.& in 1960,                      -ohiclo..
1970, and 1975.                                                                        adorcIrsIaihes'ad nuato                       .t  typae nf noce.ivers for radio
pE ,lannin   pboran.-affec   dots forrecent yere                                                                     Y    nay -ot ha, fcea           iw   coo  cout..Ins
deanniad ose  of chilt.d-hearIn` ago (15-44 years) ohc usa hirth-oot-1                TV receivers   l tr.thocasd  ...olatiun) - TV re...Ivas  for hnoadcaat to gerar1
deicerco11 _etd oa     Lc  a-  ago Sn-P.                                               pblic per thnueeod population; eoludos uli-oned TV rneoa                 .t coon.
lode  offoo  endociocnorcenna   199-71 101M             I no   f Pat capita     tion of "daily geraI interact newepape', defined an aI rnodco I1pobti-
ennal  roucton'fill  food   sodirine.9   Prdutoneclde   ee.nd                       ction donotad primarIly to reco rding Soe..a  coe -        It Is cu_eiderdto
facd sod Lc onalad-n yscc beaie.  Csoaditise  -ore prisary goods                         he 'diyif it appereot leas t four tices  a oe.k.
(5.5  eeancao lated  ofeunr)  hich ars edibla endcati  cuttint               Ciwe  nul  tenat  Pra  .aite  rayn & er-gaand  - the n,ahr If ticketc
'n.. cffe  ad rs ae oolded).  Aggregaet  productio  of ecconr                    sld oig bayr. tecldleg adeisieto dnlo-ic   cnssdnh
it bead  n naione    averge  ridcenpric  odght.buits
tar -vsice oonoly of calunlee    Ira t o  roocirseante) - Copoted froe
mercy nquival-t of -ut foo.d cuppli. me-ailahla in coutry pen .upita                     PLUG
P.r day.    -ostlblo  -ppl ion cepr ie  daetic  productiun, Lnpotatoe                 to...ubr forte (thoenenda    E-ftnicclly aciv  porsos, incldii a.n-d
gooc    ndcano  Io stock.  Nat eupplice e..L"d.nta  fend, esd.                 fcnoe and unepl=pe  bet anolodine husewic,stdns   etc.  DflIni-
qcctnusd fI fod pr-coeoig, uod losses in ditrtibutci.  fta                      tione in  -cni-u  cutnisaaro.ttce-pareblc.
qolnranu ocectincedby  he  sea  so PhyoiLoloice1 ceede for nor-              rale  fran-en) - rate  labor forte en Peroeg   o t            otal labor foc.
vaI activity andh1th cadcrioc soviros -tI tpessraturo, body                           Aart-olt.r  (earc..nt)  - Labor Forc  In fasing. fgreatnY. hni adfai
oeifts  eo  codeecdlenihult    ofpo,potation, end allo-son  10 Pen-           aspercntegs of total labor fome.
th sr   n  oetl  tonal.                                                lodusty  nett)- Labor forc  in nicla  c-ecbs,nnfact-nin  and
'to PoI" o              meti  inn  eat dn), - Notate  -ontot of Per            elecricity, water and gee ce percatago of total labor fort..
capt I   vtTnPPly cf-foodParday.  Ne Lspply of tood L. difrad aI
aloco.   touirenant  fon all  nuntniosoetshlishd by 010   prvde fo     arrt"ci"a ion  atefr toent)  ..it....            d   pac-  etoPeiaa
nic-s, aRlqnoea,t of" 61'      ao - total protebinh pebdy USoDA  20 era                  tivityl rabaecptda-od,sl,adfl                               so   fore-
L. ise .11. I .:fith.1 Ptt.i.  or de  ..d  0 ar-               panontages of total, eta  end fate  popolation of all acne repeftively;
Thfa.. lso   usapooi,o  o                          fc 10 gra. shul  het.  prntisa  prtc           196, 19701 an  19)5 data.  These are ILOe pantiolpecion notes,a,          c
tbe  eadnd   nnInthan              thoe   f71ga   of  tld  proteIn and          agesa   truoture of the pptlation, and tong time treed.  A fan senisats
00  I  cha Third wOurld rood S=uItsy.
nrcraeotLo sunol ircesi icoooa                Protel  suPply of food            coecdeadn   rtio -Rctio of populatin  atdar 15 and 65 and  -cr to
derive   frn ocI.st  and po1.ae in grcs  Pon day.                                       the labor fontsL in .age rop of 15-64 yao
Chld ..n I.")  onclict' nato fr    thousand) -Annusl deaths Par  hO'.-             ec LK   IfStyIlTR ILgf
sod  r an  grop 1-   tran ito  hll~dran in thIs ace, enoti; for noet            Perc..nteca of orio-co L-tou   (both iccac.h und kclo) rocoiod by rlchoet
d-1nlptogcoccl-       ndot.   dr Iod  ra  ifo  t       Ibo                              peroa.t, richoet 20 Pero...c, p-o-e  20 prcn..ud poo-o  40 prce..
HEALTH                                                                                       Of bousaholde.
It  cocanvu  birth (ejjjoongn o,rnr of year  of lifo  ranai-
ic, at birch. 1q601  10)70,.sd 1977 dos.ERttTY TARCCT  RIiWPb
ofenourt  [li ra e(or 1iho.....d) -    ..csI doaths of icfacte aodr              Eatiostad abe-luta ovnrvIctoal(Szo   enc)-oho  n   ua 
Accnt  o ufe  aca  )orotc  f gonulalon, - tta, urban, and rural -                  vurlelna.lty adoquact dir, plo..o.ea.t-al  no-food n-qofr-neto itc
Scuhr ofproro Pcal,urba, ad tonal) utch rosuhot et                              ffondablo.
*.cv.,ttccoucnsc  s  tatirnprocectnd borohola..  aprizto  .M                             . coaIati.pvet   ooolcl  eonttdo  aeaOptcp
cr0.oltavo  I'., poceoagt  f Lhrneoc  toIcI              ltos                  personal t-       of the countr. r     tanloelisdrrcad tron  h. rura
iici*, bt  rn  apolh1    out f. In or etsndpoac locaZdcd notvot  che               lo'o o'I adjutn_         for highe  cotc   ooi   rb.a.roe
NO;    trc'cv.    o.ao  tut  hr  onsd.rrd as botigotchin r... onbh             .c"tdoclco   osoeclt   Oal   non   co   orat                                chu. -od
'I..  ~.'ci,crort  r rrvuno v  tS  hooehod'd  co .. e. ye to upendr                         .1p.1ti
iopr-yc-,t.r-  par  ci cth  day it irthbtg the f.itel    otrori.ol, u.t,,d s.tlIuaifll'



ANNEX I
28                                             Page 4 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                            ESTIMATE             PROJECTED
1970         1975         1976        1977 /1          1978           1979         1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /2
(US$ mil. at 1975
Prices)
Gross Domestic
Product (GDP)  22,519.9       30,931.9    32,138.2       34,612.8       36,897.2      38,557.6       48,787.7
Gains from Terms
of Trade            148.9          0           69.1            0           332.6            0             0
Gross Domestic
Income          22,668.8    30,931.9    32,207.3         34,612.8       37,229.8      38.557.6       48.557.6
Imports           6,519.8       8,832.0      8,493.2        9,636.8      10,038.5      10,344.8       12,857.0
Exports--Volume -5,022.7    -6,426.0    -7,026.9          -6,712.8       -6,761.7      -6.896.6    -10.952.4
Exports--Terms
of Trade
Adjusted        -5,171.6    -6,426.0    -7,095.1         -6,712.8       -7,094.3      -6,896.6    -10,952.4
Resource Gap      1,348.2       2,406.0      1,398.1        2,924.0       2,944.2       3,448.2        1,904.6
Consumption      16,339.6    23,123.5    22,778.2         25,367.6       26,820.2      27,850.8       34,28667
Investment        7,677.4    10,214.4    10,827.2         12,169.2       13,353.8      14,155.0       16,405.6
National
Savings          6,993.2       9,211.4    10,992.2       10,817.0       12,520.3      12,516.5       15,713.7
Gross Domestic
Savings          6,329.2       7,808.4      9,429.1       9,245.2       10,409.6      10,706.8       14,501.0
GDP at Current
US$              13,766.4    30,931.9    42,336.6         50,154.9       58,480.6      68,422.3    123,803.8
SECTOR OUTPUT
(share of GDP
at 1975 prices)
Agriculture             .182         .152          .160          .156           .139          .134           .130
Industry                .410         .480          .472          .478           .487          .494           .508
Services                .408         .368          .367          .366           .374          .372           .362
PRICES
(1975 =100)
Exports Price
Index                52          100          104            117           128            145           210
Imports Price
Index                50          100          103            117           122            145           210
Terms of Trade
Index              104           100          101            100           104            100           100
GDP Deflator          61          100          132            145           158            177           254
Annual Average
Exchange Rate        12.50        17.39        18.19          18.30         18.64           -             -
SELECTED INDICATORS              1976-78      1978-85
Import Elasticity                  .71           .88
Average National
Savings Rate                      .33           .32
Marginal National
Savings Rate                      .30           .27
Imports/GDP                        .27           .26
Investment/GDP /3                  .35           .34
Resource Gap/GDP                   .07           .06
/1  Preliminary.
/2  Components may not add up because of rounding.
/3  Including all statistical discrepancies.  In 1976, 1977, and 1978 large statistical discrepancies
exist as a result of which components of final demand exceed total resources, Since, in the
above table consumption has been reduced by this discrepancy and investment has not been changed
although it too is likely to account for part of the discrepancy, the share of investment is likely
to be an overestimate.
EMIDC
July 25, 1979



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ Million)
Actual                               Projected
1974        1975        1976       1977       1978 1/      1979         1985
Exports (f.o.b.)                     3,805        4,072       4,878      5,254       5,671      6,900       15,0CO
Imports (c.i.f.)                     7,542        7,697       7,367      9,634       9,988     12,500       21,000
Trade Balance                     -3,737       -3,625     -2,489    -4,380       -4,317      -5,600       -6,0CD
Non-Factor Services Receipts         1,891        2,354       2,430      2,600       2,984       3,100        8,000
Non-Factor Services Payments           795        1,135       1,381      1,641       2,259       2,500       r,0o
Non-Factor Services
Net Balance                      1,096        1,219       1,049        959         725        600        2,00O
Factor Services Receipts             1,714        1,746       1,974      2,220       3,030      3,200        4,500
Factor Services Payments               285          343         364        381         455         500        1,80D
Factor Services Net Balance        1,429        1,403      1,610      1,839       2,575       2,700        2,70C
Current Account Balance             -1,185       -1,003         165    -1,582      -1,017      -2,300       -1,300        s
Capital Account-Medium
and Long-Term (net)                   612        1,156       1,193     1,615        1,300      1,700        2,003
Disbursements                      1,426        2,171       2,096     2,665        2,700      3,400        7,000
Amaortization                       -814       -1,015        -903    -1,050      -1,400      -1,700       -5,0W0
Exports Credit Extended Net           -130          -80        -100       -213        -150        -200         -300
Disbursements                       -215           -           -          -           -           -            -
Amortization                          85           -           -          -           -           -            -
Total Medium and Long-Term
(net)2/                               482        1,076      1,093      1,402       1,150       1,500         1,700
Short Term (net)                       263          127         -47        -19         182          -            -
Allocation of SDR's                     -            -           -          -           -           -            -
Change in Reserves(-=Increase)         438         -200      -1,211       -199        -315         800         -40D
Gold, Foreign Exchange, SDR          243          -63      -1,065         38       -250           -            --
Bilateral Balances                   195         -137        -146        161         -65          -            -
1/    Preliminary
2/    External borrowing reported in the balance of payments is  not consistent with external debt data.
EMIDC
July 25, 1979



DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1973         1974         1975           1976          1977
Medium- & Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only) - us $ million
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD) (end of period)              4287.0       4925.9         5820.0        7145.1       8946.1
Including Undisbursed         (end of period)             5548.7       7709.7         8807.9        9696.4      12157.8
Public Debt Services           (during period)            -306.5       -394.2         -447.0        -305.2       -379.0
Interest                                                 -98.4       -105.3         -127.9        -143.0       -157.3
Other Medium- and Long-Term Debt Service(during pd.)   -746.4          -822.7         -989.7       -1134.8      -1233.3
Total Debt Service             (during period)           -1052.9      -1216.9        -1436.7       -1440.0      -1612.3
Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                                          23.9         21.4           22.4          19.7         20.2
Debt Service Ratio/i                                        18.4         16.9           17.3          15.7         15.9          l
w
Terms
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                              4.9          5.0            4.9           4.2          4.0
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                24.6         24.7           24.7          20.2         18.0
Dependency Ratios for Medium- & Long-Term Debt
Gross Disbursements/Imports                                 37.0         20.6           27.3          32.8         30.7
Net Transfers/Imports                                       13.7          4.5            8.7          13.3         14.0
Net Transfers/Gross Disbursements                           36.9         21.8           31.7          40.5         45.6
Exposure
World Bank Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           3.0          5.8            7.3           4.9          4.5
World Bank & IDA Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  3.0             5.8            7.3           4.9          4.5           e'>
World Bank DOD/Total DOD                                     8.2          8.6            9.6           9.2          8.5           P :
World Bank & IDA DOD/Total DOD                               8.2          8.6            9.6           9.2          8.5
World Bank Debt Service/Total Debt Service                   3.6          3.6            3.9           4.7          5.3           0 x
World Bank & IDA Debt Service/Total Debt Service             3.6          3.6            3.9           4.7          5.3           
/1   Including workers' remittances.
EMlDC
July 25, 1979



-31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of June 30, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-one LoaLns fully disbursed                                 567.6
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0    11.6
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism              20.0      0.3
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      1.0
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.2
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline         59.4    20.5
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                   Roads                30.0      0.1
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       0.6
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          0.6
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    20.8
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    10.2
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      3.4
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0    12.7
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                 40.0      4.0
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline             48.4      5.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    11.9
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    34.9
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    23.3
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    16.7
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          51.8
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,         Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      22.5



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      21.9
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                   56.0      17.7
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission        80.0      61.8
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      70.5
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways            100.0      93.5
1535     1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia         Roads                80.0      53.6
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine        Hydro Power           73.0     65.6
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      40.0
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      18.9
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      18.2
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                    Credit              20.0      17.1
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0      81.0
1621     1978   Privredna Banka,             Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                   Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      55.0
1678/a   1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia    Roads                 148.0    148.0
Total (less cancellation)                             2,265.5  1,016.5
of which has been repaid                              247.8
Total now outstanding                                 2,017.7
Amount sold                              8.5
of which:  Amount repaid               7.7              0.8
Total now held by Bank                                2,016.9
Total undisbursed                                               1,016.5
/a   Not yet effective.



- 33-                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at June 30, 1979)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                     Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation      -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
Industry        5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry          7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
Benz A.G.                           Industry        13.7    3.:3     17.0
1972   Sava Semperit                         Tires            11.3    3.8     15.1
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper  13.3      -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel   10.0      -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant    10.0      -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel            50.0     -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing       4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6     18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors     7.0      -       7.0
Total Gross Commitments                              147.4   24.8    172.2
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                            78.9    2.6      81.5
Total commitments held by IFC                         68.5   22.2      90.7
Total Undisbursed                                      12.3    5.7     18.0



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. The main dam
is completed and the reservoir is being filled. A small part of the irriga-
tion network has been completed with the remainder expected to be completed
by 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates, but the
overrun financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal
sources. Delays have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjust-
ment. Consultants have been engaged to help find solutions, and the Kosovo
Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about five
years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated ($49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,000 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about $1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks, but another change in sponsorship is required
and is currently being discussed with the participating parties. The 1978
season was good. A further extension of the Closing Date to December 31, 1979
has been necessary to permit disbursement of the small balance of the loan
(approximately $300,000) earmarked for the final payment against a computer
installation scheduled for spring 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10) pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission:  US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date:  December 29, 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has virtually
been completed, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428
million (up 910 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The resulting
cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic
of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appoint-
ment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recom-
mendations have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the
Borrowers and implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the prciject, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to October 31, 1979, to permit comple-
tion on disbuLrsements to suppliers of equipment.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, :R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by mid to late 1980.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. 
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized. An EDI type training course
was given in Yugoslavia in October 1978.



-          -        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements accelerated after a slow start. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, was postponed twice to December 31, 1979 to
allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements to
equipment suppliers.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases approved in 1977 and 1978 and institutional develop-
ments, including improved investment planning and management, the formation of
COTs and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
have resolved the major problems. Rate of disbursement, initially behind
schedule, is now improving. Undisbursed balance of $20.8 million is fully
committed. Closing date has been postponed from June 30, 1979 to December 31,
1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disburse-
ments on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items was expected by end 1979. The port authority has
been experiencing serious cash flow problems arising from delays in complet-
ing the project and in traffic build-up. Most recently, the earthquake in
Yugoslavia resulted in severe damage to port installations particularly in the
older parts of the port causing further delays and will require a reassessment
of the financial situation.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date:  June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has nowr been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety-seven percent of the loan has been committed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the year and, as of June 30, 1979, 75 percent of tlhe loan
proceeds were disbursed.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia and Montenegro is on schedule. All road works should
be completed by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline:  US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a one year slippage in the completion will occur. The
revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there will be a cost
overrun of about 45 percent because of required changes from original project
components and increases in local costs. The Borrower has taken steps to
obtain supplementary financing from various sources both foreign and local.
The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon review of the award
of a site preparation contract in one case, and the procurement procedures
regarding a telemetry supervision control system in another case, the Bank
concluded that the procurement procedures were not in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and
$112,000, respectively) that would have otherwise been eligible for disbur-
sement were cancelled from the Loan.



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed by the
Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The flood control
and water quality studies are underway after initial delays in selecting con-
sultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has begun. Construction is completed
on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced.
Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment
plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice are underway. The pilot irrigation components
which were delayed pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrange-
ments, are expected to get underway shortly. The creation of the Morava
Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than antic-
ipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties concerned
on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened in the
water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region Water
Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Suppl' and Sewerage:  US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Tendering for the
sewage treatment plant is completed and award is expected shortly.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Gas is scheduled to be available in Sarajevo by end 1979, one year
later than originally planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the
supply of gas were the the major cause of delay. All contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high pressure loop-line, as well
as for gas transmission line, have been awarded and construction is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed except
for a small part of the Kosovan bank's portion for which a project has been
submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal
estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants, with the assistance of foreign consultants, have
been retained as project consultants and are proceeding with final designs on



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
the project components and preparation of bidding documents. Two local con-
struction contracts have been awarded as well as the major contract for the
construction of the dam. Overall project progress is about one year behind
schedule.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. ICB procurement for the winery
and the cold stores is completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower. Twenty two sub-projects in the individual sector have been
approved committing 60 percent of loan proceeds.  Slower than expected imple-
mentation (contract award for construction agro-industries facilities) due
primarily to lack of employment of agro-industries specialist by Borrower.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress.  The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 84 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution has started with the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project,
although behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracting has progressed as expected and the majority of the loan
has already been committed.



- 40 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for road sections
in Croatia and Serbia. Slovenia has delayed construction due to protest by
residents in the area of the Celovska Interchange that some measures must be
taken to abate noise pollution. Resident agreement to abatement solutions is
expected shortly.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power:  US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan became effective November 16, 1978.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978; Effective Dates: November 16, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans became effective November 16, 1978.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal and
main canal have been awarded. Consultants have been awarded contracts for
preparation of three irrigation studies.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan became effective March 28, 1979.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1978; Effective
Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is August 31, 1979. All
five participating Republics/Provinces have completed prequalification of con-
tractors and have established monitoring and evaluation units.



- 41 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare    2-1/2 years
project:                               (March 1976 - September 1978)
(b)  Agencies which identified project:  Socialist Republic of Croatia
with UN Special Fund Assistance
(c)  Agencies which prepared project:       Sava River Authority (OVP),
FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program and Bank staff
(d)  Project first presented to Bank:    Mid-1976
(e) First Bank mission to review
project:                               September 1976
(f)  Departure of appraisal mission:        October 1978
(g)  Completion of negotiations:            June 1979
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:         December 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) No later than March 31, 1980 OVP to establish a Project Unit operating
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and to appoint key staff,
including the Project Unit Director (para. 46);
(b) Short-term specialists to be employed by OVP on terms and condiltions
satisfactory to Bank (para. 46);
(c)  Zagrebacka Banka (ZB) to appraise, supervise, monitor and evaluate on-
farm development sub-loans (paras. 49 and 55);
(d) OVP to initiate program for adequate operation and maintenance service
(para. 50);
(e) OVP to organize unified extension service (para. 51);



- 42 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(f) OVP to cause communities to carry out land consolidation program and to
coordinate program with project works (para. 53);
(g) OVP (a) to submit to the Bank no later than March 31, 1980 for its review
a drainage investigation program and subsurface drain monitoring program;
(b) to implement such programs taking into account the Bank's comments;
and (c) to proceed with large scale subsurface pipe drain investments
only as and when the Bank has agreed upon their technical aspects
(para. 54);
(h) ZB, in cooperation with OVP, to submit to Bank a project completion
report within six months of end of project (para. 55);
(i) As a condition of effectiveness six Subsidiary Loan Agreements are to be
entered into between ZB and OVP, the Self-Managed Water Economy Interest
Community of the Sava River and four Self-Managed Water Economy Interest
Communities of the Catchment Areas (para. 57); and
(j) ZB to on-lend proceeds of loan in accordance with terms and conditions
set out in the Loan Agreement (para. 57).



~ -                                                                                                                                                                                          1290W~ ajOU4eer ;;I XAo 2n?<.ul:JEger nral~~lse>vraedmt e v>idaneasx.tes:Zeve8tvlssonvenear. B15 14150
t                C9F:                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A . 5Mh ,,,, a,fl,.b Ih  ........ _ . _& ......... , 9 >- 0P6e00a. 0 ............. 0 .5dUX ..... MARCH 1979
S.1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      /~
YUJGOS LAVI A                                                                                                                                          N/
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT 
W  ? 2 E z '-oInag  rannl la ce  ii[I rare                                                                                                          =%     )        fibs1
e--aary Drainge 7[ar-S 1, 
Barai   f Dra race Area a n  Pa Her
, PLR~~_EOIA..                                                             .. _ \jic\                                                                                            ' bt'J , 
P-i  g Slora-                                                                                                   j                                              are
-bridges and  ,il-err orr gra-y                                                                                                                         -i
lawn                                                                L-'t(
,c". .-H                                                                                                                                  T.y--  ,,2
P..dX                                  iSO   555                   i
'/'   \,< S !"                        1                                                        t_3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aare



