Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2448a-YU
STAFF APVPAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
August 8, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture III
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$ 1                      =              Dinars (Din) 18.0
Din 1                      =              US$ 0.0556
Din 1,000,000              =              US$ 55,555.56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)            =              2.20 pounds
1 quintal                  =              100 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)                      1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)                      0.98 long ton
1 millimeter (mm)          =              0.04 inch
1 centimeter (cm)          =              0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                =              1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)           =              0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)             =              2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)        =              10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)                  0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                =              0.264 gallon
1 cubic meter (m3)         =              1.31 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL             =  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
(in Serbo Croatian, OOUR)
OVP (SRA)       =  Sava River Authority (Opce Vodoprivredno
Poduzece za Vodno Podrucje Sliva Save)
PU              =  Project Unit
SDK             =  Social Accounting Service
SIZ             =  Self Managed Water Economy Interest Community
of the Catchment Areas
SR of Croatia   =  Socialist Republic of Croatia
SVIZ-Sava       =  Self Managed Water Economy Interest Community
of the Sava River
ZB              =  Zagrebacka Banka
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are those effective in
October, 1978.



FOR OFFICtAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  .....................................                                1
A.    Project  Background  ............                 .....................             1
B.  Agriculture Sector ..... .................                                            2
C.  Drainage Subsector ..... .................                                            3
II.    PROJECT AREA  .......              ........................... .                           3
A.    Description of  the Project  Area  ....................                             3
B.    Agricultural  Situation  in the Project  Area                      .........        7
C.    Principal  Institutions  Participating  in the
Project  ............................................                              9
III.     THE  PROJECT  .............................................                              11
A.    Project  Objectives  .................................                             11
B.    Project Description  ................................                              11
C.    Cost  Estimates  .....................................                             14
D.    Financing                  ..........................................              15
E.    Procurement  ........................................                             16
F.    Disbursements  ...... ..............                  ..................          17
G.    Environmental Impact  ..............              ..      ...............         18
H.    Role of Women  ..................             ..       ..................          18
IV.     ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT  .............................                              19
A.    Borrower:   ZB  ..................            ..      ..................           19
B.     Implementing Agency: OP .............                ..      ............        21
C.    Project Monitoring  and Evaluation                      ..................        25
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ................. .              .    ............           26
A.    Land Use  ...........................................                             26
B.    Production  ....... ..............                  ....................          28
C.    Markets, Market Prospects  and Prices  ..............                   .         30
D.    Financial  Benefits  .................................                            32
E.    Cost  Recovery  ..................            ..      ..................          33
F.    Economic Justification  ..............               ..      .............        37
G.    Project  Risks  and Uncertainty  ..........              ..     ..........        40
VI.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENT  TO BE REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..                              41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
1      Cropping - Before project  *...s..e.......s ................     43
2      Cropping - Full Project Development ......       ................    44
3      Livestock Production ........ .. .    ....... .......... ....... 45
4      Zagrebacka Banka -Balance Sheet           .........................    46
5      Zagrebacka Banka - Statement of Income .............   ......    47
6      Project-Related ZB Cash Flows during Life of
Proposed  IBRD  Loan   ........ ................ . ... . ... .  48
7      Number of Employees according to Qualification in
the Sava River Authority (OVP) as of June 30, 1978 .....       49
8      Estimated Schedule of Expenditures          .......................    50
9      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements              *..Of  ....    51
10      Operation and Maintenance Equipment List         ................    52
11      Financial and Economic Prices of Project Benefits    .......    53
12      Farm Model (Private Sector):  5 ha .......................    56
13      Social Sector Cash Flows - Generated from Crop
Production Operations                                  ...    57
14      Detailed Phasing of Drainage ......        ................       58
15      Drained Area by Catchment at Full Project Development             59
16      Detailed Phasing of Cropped Area (ha)          ...................    60
17      Detailed Phasing of Crop Production (tons)        ...............    61
18      Detailed Livestock Phasing ..............................         62
19      Incremental Costs.                .................................... ...    63
20      Incremental Economic Benefits and Costs         ..................    64
Chart 1 - Participating Agencies in the Project Area ...............        65
Annex 2 - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File .    66
MAP
IBRD No. 14150 General Layout



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01     Numerous generations have searched for hydrotechnical solutions
to prevent Sava River flooding and enable drainage of swampy areas in its
basin. The first proposals to solve the drainage problem date back to 1770.
Basic concepts and approaches were developed in the period from 1770 to 1868.
In 1868 the Lonjsko Polje Drainage Act was passed by the Croatian Parliament,
after which a consortium was established to prepare and execute works. Due in
large part to a lack of financial means, these proposals were not implemented.
After the Second World War, the Five-Year Plan Act of 1947 set out the task of
preparing a feasibility study of drainage in the project area. In 1957 the
question of land reclamation in the middle Sava River valley was again raised
by the district authorities. Flooding of the town of Zagreb in 1964, and
floods in Sisak and Karlovac in 1965 and 1966 urged the pressing need for
the protection of these towns from floods, and the Direckcija za Savu-Zagreb
(Sava River Authority) undertook a study of the problem. The Federal Govern-
ment of Yugoslavia asked the United Nations for technical assistance in the
elaboration of the complex study "Regulation and Management of the Sava
River". The UN Special Fund selected a group of experts for the study from
Polytechna, Prague, and Carlo Lotti, Rome. The study was completed in
1972 with the assistance of Direkcija za Savu and other Yugoslav experts. The
result of the study was the definition of a Water Management Plan proposing a
large number of actions to be implemented in stages until Year 2000. The
principal components of the flood control part of the Water Management Plan
are flood relief reservoirs and channels. Detailed analyses indicate that the
Middle Sava Basin can be protected by two storage reservoirs and key relief
channels, Odra (52 km), Lonja-Strug (105 km) and Kupa-Kupa (22 km).  At
present construction of the storage reservoirs and flood relief channels
has reached a stage at which it is possible to proceed with drainage of the
project area.
1.02     The proposed project has been prepared by the Sava River Authority
(OVP) with the assistance of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program staff and Bank
staff. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Croatia in October/November 1978 comprising Messrs. H. Feuerstein, A. Akant
(Bank), and M. Fireman, P. Harrison, C. Maierhofer and M. Walshe (Consul-
tants).



- 2 -
B. Agriculture Sector
Sector Development
1.03     Of the total territory of Yugoslavia, 44% is mountainous and 56% or
14.6 million hectares is agriculturally productive, with 70% of arable land
and the remainder permanent pastures.  Droughts, and in some areas flooding,
are common, causing frequent instability in production. About 35% of the
population still lives in the rural areas and, of these, about one-third is in
the poverty target group.  More than 40% of the labor force is still engaged
in agriculture. A key feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence and
complementarity of the individual and social sectors. The social sector, with
15% of the agricultural land and about 6% of agricultural manpower, produces
one-third of the total agricultural output. The individual sector, which owns
85% of the cultivated land and employs over 90% of agricultural manpower, is
handicapped by small, fragmented, lesser quality holdings, and has been
neglected relative to the social sector in terms of access to basic infra-
structure, financing and technology. In 1976 the agricultural sector as a
whole accounted for 16% of the national product and for about 12% of total
commodity exports. Thus, notwithstanding a policy of rapid industrialization,
the role of agriculture, while declining, remains one of basic importance in
the overall development of the Yugoslav economy.
1.04     In the current (1976-1980) Five-Year Plan, the more rapid develop-
ment of agriculture is a stated precondition to achieving the planned growth
rate, self-sufficiency in agricultural products and to fulfilling the three
major long-term country objectives, i.e. to ensure improved living standards,
to provide adequate gainful domestic employment, and to reduce the large
inter-regional income disparities. Regional income disparity is one of the
major development issues facing the country. Income disparity between the
agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, and within agriculture, between the
social and individual sectors, is a key problem which largely determines the
disparity between the regions.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
1.05     The World Bank strategy in the agriculture sector in Yugoslavia is
to support development of less developed regions and promote agricultural
development in both the individual and social sectors through providing basic
infrastructure and credit. Development of the agriculture sector is consid-
ered essential to address the problems of rural poverty which underlie regional
disparity; provide gainful employment to rural population; and, reduce imports
and increase exports. In general, the Bank supports increase in primary
production through the individual sector while the vital marketing and proces-
sing requirements are met through the social sector. The Bank proposes to
expand its role in the agriculture sector by seeking ways to reach individual
farmers who do not have cooperative arrangements with the social sector. The
Government is strongly committed to and supports the Bank's envisaged role in
the agriculture sector.



- 3 -
1.06     Bank lending policy is consistent with and closely parallels the
country's development strategies. The Bank assisted in formulating the
1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive framework for agricultural development,
which emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector in order to
accelerate agricultural growth. The 1976 "Green Plan" pursues this policy
even further. 67% of Bank resources through FY82 is to be channelled to the
four lesser developed regions (Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and
Montenegro). In the more developed regions Bank support is essentially
restricted to infrastructure schemes which would serve the whole country.
1.07     The Bank has made 55 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$2,266
million, of which seven loans totalling US$343 million have been made for
agriculture and agro-industries. In addition, two Bank multipurpose projects
included substantial irrigation components. The Republic of Croatia partici-
pated in the first and second country-wide agricultural credit projects and
this would be the first agricultural loan limited to this republic.
C. Drainage Subsector
1.08     The need for drainage, including both surface and subsurface drains,
is most pronounced in the Sava River Basin where subsoils with low perme-
ability prevent the realization of full crop production potentials. The total
area requiring drainage in the Sava River Basin comprises about 1.2 million
ha. In some areas the land is not utilized for cropping because of an absence
of drainage. In many regions drainage and land consolidation would be a
precondition for efficient mechanization of both the private and social
sectors. The need for extensive flood control and surface drainage along with
ancillary pumping facilities and protective dikes is clearly evident. Field
observations also suggest the need for subsurface drainage exists, and that
subsurface drainage can be successfully achieved if properly implemented.
However, there is still an urgent requirement to investigate soil profiles and
permeabilities, groundwater conditions, and drain performance, with the
objective of developing design criteria for effective subsurface drainage at
least cost.
II. PROJECT AREA
A.  Description of the Project Area
Location and Topography
2.01     The project area is located in the middle Sava River Valley between
13°46' and 14 15' east longitude and 45°31' and 45049' north latitude.  It
comprises the triangle between the towns of Zagreb, Cazma and Sisak. The
project area consists mostly of a relatively flat plain with a small area in
the northeast of low hills interspersed with small valleys. The elevation



ranges from a maximum of 189m in the northeast hilly area to about 106m in the
trough of the valley at the western edge of the project to a low of 95m in the
southeast. The average downvalley slope is 0.03% and crossvalley slopes range
from almost zero to as much as 3% in the hilly area.  The plain consists of
three topographic features: the elevated Sava River bank zone 0.5 to 2 km
wide along the southwestern border of the project area, a slightly elevated
terrace and hillslope area along the north and northeastern borders, and the
low central valley trough.
Climate
2.02     The climate is described as "moderate continental", and is charac-
terized by warm summers and fairly cold winters, with a moderate annual
rainfall usually well distributed throughout the year. The rainstorms are
quite gentle, the maximum precipitation being less than 100 mm in a three-day
period. The average annual rainfall during the last 55 years was about 920 mm
and the range 625 to 1387 mm. Based on past records, the 50% probable annual
rainfall is between 780 and 1060 mm, and the annual rainfall has been less
than 708 or more than 1150 mm about once in each 10 year period. The monthly
rainfall distribution is on average fairly uniform with a mean low of 54 mm in
March and a high of 97 mm in June. About 54% of the annual rainfall normally
falls during the warm growing season, April 1 to September 30. Of the
remainder, about 20% falls as snow in December, January and February, and some
hail falls about 5 times in a 10 year period, almost exclusively in summer.
Class A Pan evaporation records and Penman formula calculations indicate that
the daily crop water requirement, April 1 through September 30, ranges from 2
to 4 mm and averages about 3 mm per day, for a total of about 550 mm for the
six-month long, warm-season cropping period. In this regard, it should be
noted that total rainfall during April to September was less than 400 mm, a
total of 15 times in the last 55 years; thus drought is fairly common and must
be reckoned with, especially in regard to the coarser-textured well-drained
soils of the project.  The mean annual temperature is 10.1  C, and monthly
averages range from a low of -1.60 C in January to a high of 20.30 C in
July.  The average diurnal change in temperature ranges from only 3.50 C in
September to 14.8° C in February. The mean annual humidity is 79% and
monthly averages range from 74 to 85%.  Winds are gentle and changeable;
sunshine hours amount to about 60% of the potential, with a higher percentage
of sunshine in the warm season than in the cold.
Soils
2.03     The 25 distinct soil "units" that have been identified in the project
area have been aggregated into 4 broad soil groups with somewhat similar char-
acteristics and crop production problems. These are the elevated "alluvial"
soils of the Sava River bank zone, the adjacent, slightly lower "meadow"
soils, the somewhat elevated "podzolic - pseudogley" soils of the low terraces
and hill slopes to the north, and the frequently flooded, perennially water-
logged "mineral - hydromorphic gleyed and gley" soils of the Sava Valley
lowlands. All of these have a moderate to highly permeable surface layer
about 30 cm deep and are relatively high in organic matter content and in



- 5 -
fertility. Except in the case of the alluvial soils, the more or less perme-
able surface layer is underlain by a much finer textured, slowly to extremely
slowly permeable second layer which extends to a depth of 70 to 130 cm;
this is underlain by a substratum of somewhat coarser textured, much more per-
meable material. The alluvial soils are permeable, well drained, calcareous
sandy loams and loams of moderate organic matter content and fertility and are
easy to cultivate; they are considered to be the best soils in the project
area. The meadow soils are somewhat higher in organic matter content and
in fertility, and are slightly acid in the surface layer; they are of moder-
ately fine texture, are subject to periodic flooding and have rather low
subsoil permeabilities; hence they are moderately poorly to poorly drained and
as a consequence are partially gleyed (reduced and colored blue-gray-green
interspersed with iron-stain mottles); they are not difficult to cultivate
where drainage facilities are provided, and the rating of the several units in
this soil group ranges from good to poor, depending upon drainability. The
podzolic - pseudogley soils have a moderately fine-textured, permeable surface
over a finer textured layer with very low to extremely low permeability; the
third layer, the substratum, is coarser and higher in permeability. These
soils are moderately acid to very acid in the top and second layers and have
somewhat higher organic matter contents and fertility levels than the alluvial
soil group; they are seldom, if ever, waterlogged in the third, i.e. the subsoil,
layer, but the lower portion of the surface layer and the top few centimeters
of the almost impermeable second layer may be slightly to moderately gleyed
owing to the almost constant downslope movement of water through the surface
and over the second layer; the soil units in this group are classed good to
fair. The mineral hydromorphic valley trough soils are very fine-textured,
very slightly permeable, almost perennially waterlogged and regularly flooded.
As a consequence, they are gleyed (reduced and colored blue-gray-green inter-
spersed with iron-stain mottles) below the surface 30 to 40 cm layer, are
moderately acid to a depth of 70 to 80 cm, are high in organic matter content
and relatively high in fertility, are difficult to cultivate, etc., owing to
the high moisture content resulting from being waterlogged; they are classed
as fair to unsuitable for cropping in accordance with the feasibility of
providing adequate drainage facilities.
Population and Employment
2.04     Population in the project area was about 42,500 in 1971, the year
of the last census, and remained almost constant over the last two decades.
However, the number of inhabitants decreased in 80% of the 104 settlements and
increased in the remaining 20% which are in the vicinity of the urban centers
of Zagreb, Ivanic Grad, Dugo Selo and Sesvete. About 45% of the inhabitants
in the project area are classified as farmers. The average size of a house-
hold is 3.3 inhabitants. About 42% of households are earning their income
from non-farm employment, 36% earn their income entirely from farming, and
22% have mixed sources of income. Country-wide unemployment and underemploy-
ment also affect the project area but rural unemployment near major urban
centers appears to have decreased in recent years. Because of the small
average farm size in the individual farm sector a high degree of underemploy-
ment can be assumed.



-6-
Land Tenure and Use
2.05      The land use in the project area is changing as farmers age and part
of the new generation seeks non-farm employment. This trend has been sup-
ported mainly by employment opportunities created due to industrial growth in
the Zagreb area. Much of the land given up is expected to be acquired by the
social sector with due compensation, and it is projected that some 3,100 ha of
agricultural land would move from the individual to the social sector between
1977 and 1985. The number of farm families in the individual sector has de-
creased from about 7,500 in 1971 to 6,200 in 1978 and is expected to decrease
to 5,200 in 1985. In 1977, 11,400 ha belonged to the social sector, 26,200 ha
to individual farmers, and 6,400 ha to non-agricultural households. The 6,400
ha of land owned by non-agricultural households is partly rented to farm fami-
lies, partly donated to relatives without having been officially registered,
and is partly hobby land, gardens, orchards, etc. cultivated by suburban
households. According to the latest census of 1971 the farm size distribution
of the 26,200 ha belonging to the individual farm sector is as follows:
Land Tenure Pattern in Project Area in 1971
Farms               Area         Average   Average Number
Farm Size                      Per-              Per-      Farm       of Plots per
ha            Number       cent      ha      cent    Size ha          Farmer
Less than 1           86        1.2       43      0.2       0.5              2
1 to 2            1,786        23.9   2,679    10.2         1.5             4
2 to 3             1,894       25.4   4,735    18.0         2.5             7
3 to 4             1,103       14.8   3,860    14.7         3.5            10
4 to 5             1,104       14.8   4,968    19.0         4.5            13
5 to 6               721        9.7   3,966    15.1         5.5            16
6 to 8               509        6.8   3,563    13.6         7.0            20
8 to 10              230        3.0   2,070       7.9       9.0            26
More than 10          27         .4      324      1.3      12.0            34
TOTAL             7,460       100.0  26,208   100.0         3.5            10
The average farm size in the individual sector in 1971 was 3.5 ha with an
average number of 10 plots per farmer.  In 1978 the average farm size was
about 4 ha. The small average farm size and large numbers of scattered plots
results in low labor productivity and low farm income.
Existing Infrastructure
2.06      Transport facilities, power supply, schools, health services, etc.
are generally well established in the project area. Transport is by road,
railway and partly by river.  The Zagreb-Belgrade highway, partly financed by
the Bank, is going through the project area, and other major roads connect
important settlements such as Sesvete, Dugo Selo, Ivanic Grad and Sisak. All
settlements are connected to the electrical power network. For the entire
project area, as in other parts of Yugoslavia, an 8-year primary school
education is compulsory. The network of schools covers all settlements and



- 7 -
there are 7 secondary schools in Ivanic Grad, Sesvete, and other surrounding
towns such as Zagreb and Sisak. Medical service in Yugoslavia is gener-
ally well advanced. Workers, no matter whether they are employed in the
individual or social sector, pay medical insurance tax and thereby have the
right to use the medical service. Individual farmers are also covered by
medical insurance, have the right to use medical services, but in contrast to
workers, have to pay for their medical prescriptions.
B. Agricultural Situation in the Project Area
Agricultural Production
2.07     Agricultural production is based on rainfed agriculture and the
dominant crops in the project area are maize, wheat and some rape seed on the
1,600 ha cropped by social sector enterprises. About 12,800 ha of arable land
is cropped by individual farmers, mainly for cereal production (maize, wheat
and some barley and oats) and fodder crops and vegetables. Because of the
drainage problems in the project area, most of the remaining land is used for
the production of hay and for extensive grazing. More intensive forms of
livestock production (dairy cattle, baby beef, pigs) tend to be concentrated
on the elevated alluvial soils of the Sava River bank zone. Details on the
present cropping pattern and crop and livestock production are given in
Annex 1, Tables 1, 2, and 3.
2.08     Three year average yields for representative crops in the social
sector and crops and livestock in the individual farm sector are given in
paragraph 5.04. The lower yields in the individual sector farms are the
reflection of a variety of factors. Until recently there had been few
attempts in the region to modernize production of small farms, and almost no
financial resources had been directed towards the individual sector. Tradi-
tional farming practices were generally used and fertilizer and chemical
utilization was at a low level. The large majority of individual farmers
had no access to credit and technical advice. Presently, only a small number
of farmers are cooperating with the social sector, although the number is
increasing. There is also a lack of knowledge on animal nutrition and other
modern livestock husbandry practices on the part of farmers in the individual
sector.
Agro-Industries and Markets
2.09     One of the important stimuli for the development of agriculture in
the project area, particularly on individual farms, has come from the markets
offered by the existing agro-industries in the vicinity of the project area.
The existing and planned capacities of the agro-industries in the vicinity of
the project area are sufficient to absorb the incremental production from the
project. The oil mill in Zagreb for example has lost part of its raw material
supply from other republics and therefore promotes the local expansion of rape
seed production. The most important organizations dealing with production,
processing and marketing of agricultural products are Agroposavina-Ivanic-Grad
and Posavina-Bozjakovina.



- 8 -
2.10     In the project area, as elsewhere in Yugoslavia, organized markets
with authorized purchases by social sector organizations at or above minimum
prices exist side by side with informal markets, where individual farmers
sell directly to consumers. Social sector enterprises and cooperatives also
provide individual farmers with farm inputs. To increase their production and
income the individual farms depend on organized markets, except for the many
individual farmers who produce mainly for subsistence purposes and market only
a small share of their limited output for supplementary cash income on the
informal markets.
2.11     The organized trading in the project area is done by the Zagreb Dairy
for milk, by the various slaughterhouses and sausage factories for meat, by
the various feed mills and bakeries for grains and by the oil mill for rape
seed.
Extension Service
2.12     Extension activities in the project area include:  the Zagreb dairy
and the Zagreb oil mill, an extension station at Sesvete and the extension
department of Kombinat Vrbovec. In addition there is a center for extension
based in Zagreb with a permanent staff of about 50 and about 20 part-time
associates which undertakes work throughout Croatia.
2.13     At present there is no republic-wide, state-funded extension service
operating in SR Croatia. Prior to 1968, 90 extension service stations had
existed, but following the formation of the large kombinats most of the exten-
sion stations were merged with the technical departments of the kombinats. In
1978 there were 45 extension stations in Croatia; 28 were parts of kombinats,
and 17 were independent stations. Extension service in the project area is
generally weak and does not focus on the major problems of the area. It is
directed to a limited number of producers and is oriented mainly towards
supply of products to kombinats or processing facilities. Generally extension
agents are over burdened with regulatory matters leaving them little time for
farm visits and training. No satisfactory technical advice is available to
farmers on crop production. Advice on livestock production, other than for
dairy cows, is generally only available to the relatively few farmers who
contract livestock for fattening. Even in the case of dairy farmers the
impact of extension is limited. The government of SR Croatia is aware of
these deficiencies in agricultural extension and is in the process of enact-
ing a law which will require each municipality to establish its own extension
service with a minimum of 5 agriculturalists. Full details of this law are
not yet available but it is understood that a final organization of individual
extension services and the method of paying for them is still under discussion.
Other Support Services
2.14     Several agricultural support services have been in operation in the
project area. The Croatian Veterinary Service, an established service, is
staffed with qualified veterinarians, well organized, has good laboratories,
stores, offices and other facilities at regional and municipal levels. The



- 9 -
quality of service provided to the farmer, including artificial insemination
for cows, is satisfactory down to the municipal level. The veterinary service
is self-financed from fees and charges paid for its services by private and
public sector producers. Credit for machinery, mainly provided by Zagrebacka
Banka (ZB) and suppliers credit is generally available in the project area.
ZB has concentrated largely on the social sector enterprises and credit
sources for individual farmers are limited. In the past, individual farmer
credit was made available only through cooperative arrangements. An expansion
of the credit program to the individual farmer would be necessary to realize
increased production. The Rugvica seed breeding and production unit of the
Agricultural Institute, Zagreb, operates in the project area. It has about
1,200 ha and concentrates mainly on maize hybrids and some other crops useful
for Yugoslavia as a whole and specifically for the project area. The pilot
farm Jezevo is organized as a separate unit of the Agricultural University,
Zagreb. It comprises about 430 ha of improved land where various technical
solutions of subsurface drainage have been tested. However, the pilot farm is
not representative for all soil types in the project area and the tests
performed in the past are not sufficient to make specific recommendations on
spacing, depth and type of subsurface drains necessary in the project area.
C. Principal Institutions Participating in the Project
Zagrebacka Banka (ZB)
2.15     ZB was formed January 1, 1978 as the legal successor of the former
Kreditna Banka, Zagreb, and the former Jugobanka-Main Branch, Zagreb. In
the six months since its formation ZB's total assets (see Annex 1, Table 4)
are estimated to have grown from 57,838 million dinars (US$3,213 million) to
66,431 million dinars (US$3,691 million), or by about 15%. This growth is
largely due to a faster integration of new BOALs into ZB prompted by the
increase in opportunities for cooperation offered by the new bank. The net
worth of ZB (which is distributed over various funds) has grown from 4,138
million dinars (US$230 million) on January 1, 1978, to 4,476 million dinars
(US$249 million) on June 30, 1978, or by about 8%. The income statements of
ZB (and predecessor banks) indicate that net earnings grew from 701 million
dinars (US$38.9 million) in 1977 to an estimated 804 million dinars (US$44.7
million) in 1978, or by about 15% (see Annex 1, Table 5). Only 0.2% of total
loans outstanding were written off as bad debts in 1977 and 0.02% in 1976.
The capital, liquidity, and profitability positions of ZB are judged to be
financially sound and satisfactory. ZB and its predecessors are participating
in the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 1129-YU and
1477-YU) and their general performance has been satisfactory. It is expected
that ZB will be fully capable of meeting its share of 932 million dinars
(US$52 million) of project financing over the project construction period. A
project-related cash flow for ZB over the life of the proposed IBRD loan is
given in Annex 1, Table 6.



- 10 -
Sava River Authority (OVP)
2.16     OVP, an autonomous agency was founded in 1961 and is headquartered at
Zagreb. It is a financially autonomous enterprise managed by a director and
comprising ten basic organizations of associated labor (BOALs) of which 4
BOALs, Zagreb, Dugo Selo, Kutina and Sisak function in the project area.
OVP's small central office has a director and the 10 BOALs have a total of
190 professional staff and 2,400 supporting staff (see Annex 1, Table 7).
OVP's main responsibility is to perform operation and maintenance work, flood
control operations and construction of flood control and drainage infrastruc-
ture. OVP's overall technical and operational capability and performance is
more than satisfactory.
2.17     A consolidated income statement of OVP is prepared each year from
the computed totals of the accounts of the member BOALs. The BOALs have the
status of legal entities, thus all assets, equity and liabilities of OVP
remain under the authority of the individual BOALs and a yearly consolidated
balance sheet is not prepared, although each BOAL prepares its own balance
sheet. However, BOALs are jointly liable for the debts of the central office
of OVP. OVP's total revenues (483 million dinars or US$26.8 million in
1977), are mainly derived from civil works contracts (269 million dinars or
US$14.9 million in 1977) and funds obtained through SIZs (141 million dinars
or US$7.8 million in 1977). The net income of OVP, which is distributed to
reserve funds for working capital and wages, was 26.5 million dinars or US$1.5
million in 1977, up by 64% from the previous year. This large increase in
profits is mainly attributable to a near quadrupling of SIZ revenues from 1977
to 1978. Maximizing the average surplus per worker instead of net profits is
the usual financial objective of firms in Yugoslavia. The average surplus per
worker was 88,560 dinars or US$4,920 in 1977 and is estimated to have been
77,500 dinars or US$4,306 in 1976. This performance is judged to be satis-
factory since it has kept up with inflation a high level of surplus per
worker. OVP's overall financial situation is sound and no difficulty is
anticipated in OVP being able to meet its share in project investments and
repayments to ZB for project loans.
2.18      The Self Managed Water Economy Interest Communities of the Catchment
Areas (SIZs) are regional drainage user associations of which all farms in the
catchment areas are members. Each SIZ is independently responsible for its
own financial obligations. They are responsible for making decisions in
relation to new drainage investments and operation and maintenance of drainage
works and for collection of funds from users. The Self Managed Water Economy
Interest Community of the Sava River (SVIZ-Sava) is the flood control associa-
tion for the Sava River Basin and as such is responsible for making investment
decisions in relation to flood control and collecting funds from social sector
enterprises in the Sava River Basin. As associations, SIZs and SVIZ-Sava have
no staff and therefore must employ contractors and/or BOALs to construct
project works and carry out operation and maintenance.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01     The main objectives of the project are to: (a) assist in the develop-
ment of the Sava River Basin, which suffers from flooding by external water
and water logging due to lack of drainage, by financing investments in drain-
age infrastructure and on-farm development; (b) through drainage, land consol-
idation and on-farm development increase land and labor productivity and
income of rural population in the project area to levels approaching averages
of regions without drainage problems; and (c) increase production of wheat,
maize, rape seed and livestock products such as meat and milk primarily for
the domestic market to better achieve self-sufficiency in agricultural pro-
ducts. The project would also help in institution-building of OVP for imple-
mentation of subsurface drainage through provision of technical assistance
and training of key staff. It would introduce a unified training and visit
extension service which could, if successful, be used as an example for other
areas in Yugoslavia. The project's objectives are in line with the Government
of SR Croatia's plan to protect from floods large areas of the Sava River
Basin, and to drain these areas, and this project could be used as a model
for planned follow-up drainage projects in the basin.
B. Project Description
3.02     The project would consist of 5 components: (1) project works; (2)
on-farm development credit; (3) equipment for construction, operation and
maintenance; (4) consultants and overseas training; and (5) management and
technical services. These components are described below. The proposed
Bank loan would be made to Zagrebacka Banka, Zagreb (ZB), who would on-lend to
(a) SVIZ-Sava, SIZs and OVP for project works, equipment, and consultants and
overseas training, and to (b) the social sector enterprises and the individual
farmers under the on-farm development credit component.
Project Works
3.03     For purposes of design and construction scheduling, the project
area has been divided into 7 catchment areas. Major works to be constructed
under the project in these catchment areas are illustrated in map IBRD 14150.
These have been divided into the following categories:
3.04     Protection from external water.  To protect the project area from
external water, 7 channels, with embankments will be constructed to intercept
water coming from higher elevations. In addition the capacity of the natural
streams Crnec, Zelina, Lonja, and Chesma will be enlarged. With the comple-
tion of these works the project lands will be isolated from external waters.
The bottom width of the 7 channels will vary from 2 to 4 m and their depth
will be up to 4 m with side slopes of 1 vertical to 2-3 horizontal.



- 12 -
3.05     Internal Surface Drainage.  Components of the internal surface drain-
age system are parallel open field drains spaced 300 m apart, and collector
drains with depth up to 2.5 m in all the arable lands. Eight pumping plants
would lift water from the collector drains over dikes into outlet channels,
when flow in the channels is high; at low flows the drains would discharge
into these outlet channels by gravity through sluices. Outlets consist of
the flood way Lonja Strug, main lateral drains, and Chesma river. The sluice
gates allow some gravity flow during periods of low run-off and prevent water
from entering the project during periods of high water levels in the outlets.
All project water will ultimately enter Lonja Strug, to be carried to Sava
River at a point far downstream from the project. Bridges, culverts and dirt
roads along the drains will also be constructed.
3.06     There will be about 220 km of major channels (protection from outside
waters and basic drainage), about 325 km of collector drains and about 1,620
km of detailed drainage channels constructed. An estimated 10.4 million cubic
meters of material will be excavated and another 0.4 million cubic meters
will be handled for the construction of embankments.
On-Farm Development Credit
3.07     This component would aim to achieve an increase in crop and livestock
production in the individual sector and in crop production in social sector
enterprises. It would consist of the following sub-components:
3.08     Individual Farm Sector Investments.  Out of about 5,200 farmers farm-
ing an area of 25,500 ha who will benefit from general drainage infrastructure,
it is estimated that about 1,500 farmers with an average farm size of about 5
ha will participate in the on-farm development credit program provided under
the project. Medium- and long-term investment credit would be provided for
land improvements including subsurface drains, livestock development and for
farm machinery. Subprojects in the individual farm sector would normally be
submitted to ZB by social sector enterprises, or cooperatives which aggregate
investment proposals of several farmers with whom they have entered into a
cooperation agreement and borrow on their behalf. However, individual farmers
may also submit subproject investment proposals directly to ZB.
3.09      Social Sector On-Farm Development Credit.  Subloans would be pro-
vided to social sector enterprises for on-farm development, including land
clearing and levelling and subsurface drains for about 12,300 ha, farm machin-
ery consisting mainly of heavy tractors and implements and combines for crop
production, four new farmyards, and 25 km of macadam and 10 km of gravel access
roads. Subsoiling, liming and moling, to improve soil drainability, of part
of project area is not considered necessary as none of these methods has been
tried out in the project area and proved to be effective in improving drain-
ability. Therefore no provision has been included in the project cost for
these activities.
Equipment
3.10      The project would provide OVP with equipment for construction and
operation and maintenance of project works, vehicles and equipment for offices,
laboratories and field tests.



- 13 -
3.11      Construction Equipment.  The project would furnish 2 heavy draglines
(a boom length of up to 40 m and a bucket size of up to 4 to 6 m3) for the
construction of interceptor drains, major lateral channels and basic drainage
works. The project would also finance the procurement of 6 drain layers for
the construction of subsurface drains. This equipment would be purchased by
OVP and would be used to carry out these works under force account.
3.12      Operation and Maintenance Equipment.  Necessary equipment to operate
and maintain the drainage infrastructure (listed in Annex 1) would be financed
under the project, and would be purchased by the OVP's four Basic Organizations
of Associated Labor (BOALs). These BOALs need this equipment for the operation
and maintenance of the works to be constructed under the Project.
3.13      Vehicles and Equipment for Offices, Laboratories and Field Testing.
Vehicles and miscellaneous equipment would be procured under the project, and
would be used by OVP and its BOALs in project related work.
Consultants and Training Abroad.
3.14      The project would provide funds for local and foreign consultants,
who would (a) carry out investigations for drainage works, review drainage
design and analyze data collected on monitoring of groundwater after drainage
works have been constructed (8 man-months), and (b) help establish an effec-
tive extension service (6 man-months). The cost per man/month for these
consultants is estimated at US$7,500. Consultants would be recruited on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Training abroad of selected
staff in prominent institutions dealing with drainage works and extension
service and study tours would be arranged under the project.
Management and Technical Services
3.15      The project would provide funds for project administration, land
consolidation, technical design, extension service and project monitoring.
3.16     Project Administration and Land Consolidation.  The project would
provide funds for salaries, operating costs, and office overheads for project
administration and for the administration of the land consolidation program.
Project administration would be carried out by the project unit in OVP and
land consolidation by local communities. The funds would mainly be used to
finalize designs, prepare and evaluate bids, coordinate construction of all
components of the project and to monitor the project.
3.17     Extension Service.  The project would finance investments and oper-
ating costs for a technical support unit (subject matter specialists) in
the project area and for general extension officers (farm level agents). The
staffing of the subject matter specialist group would provide specialized
technical assistance to general extension officers and would comprise an
extension director, a crop production specialist, a pasture and forage spe-
cialist, a pest and disease control specialist, an animal production (nutri-
tion) specialist, a dairy specialist, a farm management and credit specialist
and one technician for drawing up farm plans. The subject matter specialists



- 14 -
of this unit would identify the technologies, in their respective fields,
suited for application in the project area; establish a link between the field
extension staff and the research centers; participate in training staff and
farmers; prepare training materials and organize agricultural fairs and
competitions. Included in the project would be the housing and transport
facilities required for the staff and purchase of training and laboratory
equipment. The technical support unit of subject matter specialists would be
able to provide support to 60 to 70 general extension officers. This is about
twice the number that would be required in the project area. Consequently,
the group would also support extension officers belonging to neighboring
municipalities.
C. Cost Estimates
3.18     The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at Din 2390 million
(about US$133 million) of which Din 918 million (US$51 million) or 39% would
be the foreign exchange component. The cost estimates include import duties
and taxes estimated at Din 300 million (US$17 million). These estimates are
based on unit rates for similar works prevailing at the end of 1977 when the
feasibility study was completed, and have been updated to reflect the costs
that would prevail in April 1979. A physical contingency of 15% has been
included for construction of subsurface drains, and a contingency of 10% on
all other items except the individual farm credit component where no physical
contingency has been applied. A total price contingency of 27% on base cost
plus physical contingencies is included for expected international price
inflation. From April 1979 to the end of 1979 the rates used for equipment
are 10% p.a. and for all other items 11% p.a. The rate used for equipment is
7% for 1980 and 6% thereafter and for all other items 8% for 1980 and 7%
thereafter. Project cost estimates are shown below; further details and an
estimated schedule of expenditures is given in Annex 1, Table 8.



- 15 -
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Total   Foreign   Local         %
------(US$ million)----
I.  Project works                          37.70    13.51    24.19         36
II. On-farm development credit
A.  Social Sector                     32.95    15.49    17.46          47
B.  Individual Sector                   5.66     1.64      4.02        29
Subtotal                              38.61    17.13    21.48         44
III. Equipment (except social sector
farm machinery)                      6.53      4.73      1.80       72
IV. Foreign consultants and
training abroad                       .20       .18       .02       90
V.  Support services                       11.93      1.28    10.65        11
Base cost estimate                    94.97    36.83    58.14          39
Total physical contingencies           9.55      3.76      5.79        39
Total price contingencies             28.12    10.52    17.60          37
Total project cost including
contingencies                      132.64    51.11    81.53         39
D. Financing
3.19      The Bank would finance 39% (US$51 million), ZB 41% (US$55 million),
and on-farm development credit subborrowers, OVP, SVIZ-Sava, SIZs and/or
Communes 20% (US$26.6 million) of total project costs. The Bank loan of US$51
million would be limited to the foreign exchange component of the project.
The proposed Bank loan would be made to ZB for 15 years including 3 years of
grace. For the on-farm development credit component, ZB would on-lend the
loan proceeds (about US$21 million) to the individual farmers and social
sector enterprises in the project area in accordance with the terms described
in paragraphs 4.02 to 4.08.
3.20      For all other components of the project ZB would on-lend the loan
proceeds to OVP, SVIZ-Sava and four SIZs in accordance with the terms des-
cribed in paragraphs 4.03 to 4.05 under six Subsidiary Loan Agreements the
signing of which is a condition of effectiveness. The contributions from
social sector subborrowers, SVIZ-Sava, SIZs, OVP, and/or Communes would be
channelled through ZB for project expenditures. The subborrowers' repayments
would be sufficient to enable ZB to repay the Bank loan within 15 years as
seen in Annex 1, Table 6. Assurances on the above financing arrangements were
obtained during negotiations.



- 16 -
E. Procurement
3.21      Contracts for construction of project works (apart from force
account work) costing about US$33 million and purchase of major items of
construction and operation and maintenance equipment (about US$6 million)
would be procured by OVP and on-farm machinery for social sector enterprises
(about US$11 million) would be procured by ZB through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Construction equipment
would include six drain layers and two draglines.  The lower of a 15% prefer-
ence or prevailing custom duty margin would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids for equipment under international competitive
bidding. Procurement for individual purchases of equipment not exceeding
US$100,000 in value would be allowed in accordance with applicable local
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate value of US$1
million for the project. Terms of reference and qualifications of consultants
and selected training courses and study tours for training abroad (US$0.2
million) would be subject to Bank approval for financing from the loan.
3.22      Construction of subsurface drains, and works to be performed by
two heavy draglines to be financed under the project for about 220 km of major
channels and river channels and about 325 km of collector drains (about US$17
million) would be carried out by OVP under force account. There has been a
general lack of interest towards Yugoslav contracts displayed by international
contractors, even for larger contracts. Local contracting for the construc-
tion of interceptor drains and other major drainage channels and for the
enlarging of capacities of natural streams would be more expensive and
time consuming than force account. Local contractors lack appropriate equip-
ment for these works, which necessitates rehandling of excavated materials
and, therefore, makes such excavation more expensive. The OVP Construction
Unit has experience in handling construction machinery and the acquisition of
the new machinery would upgrade the technical experience and provide equipment
which would also be useful for follow-up projects. The need for flexibility
on installing subsurface drains combined with the critical timing and season-
ality of the construction period, and lack of local contractors with the
requisite skills leaves force account as the only practical method for carry-
ing out this work.
3.23       Procurement of items under the individual farmer on-farm credit
component (about US$6 million) would be made through existing commercial
channels under negotiated purchase or other local procedures. No individual
contract is expected to exceed the equivalent of US$100,000. Items financed
under the individual farmer credit component would not be suitable for bulk
purchase and international competitive bidding because of size and phasing of
subprojects. Existing commercial channels maintain generally adequate supplies
of spare parts, provide servicing and repair facilities and are suitably
competitive.
3.24       Procurement in accordance with competitive bidding advertised
locally, which are acceptable to the Bank, would be appropriate for the
remaining items consisting mainly of farmyards, access roads, land clearing



- 17 -
and levelling, vehicles, and office, laboratory and field test equipment
(about US$9 million). Procurement for individual contracts and purchases of
equipment not exceeding US$100,000 in value would be allowed in accordance
with applicable local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Suitable
assurances were obtained from ZB and OVP with respect to procurement arrange-
ments set out above.
F. Disbursements
3.25      The proposed Bank loan of US$51 million would be disbursed, net of
taxes, over 5 years as follows:
(a)  Project works                          -  39% of total expenditures
(i) By contracts (US$13 million)
(ii) By force account (US$7 million)
(b)  Social sector on-farm                  -  59% of amounts disbursed by ZB
development credit
(US$19 million)
(c)  Individual sector on-farm              -  36% of amounts disbursed by ZB
development credit
(US$2 million)
(d)  Equipment                              -  100% of foreign expenditures and
(US$5.8 million)                          100% of local expenditures ex-
factory and 60% of local expendi-
tures for imported goods
(e)  Consultants and training abroad        -  100% of total expenditures
(US$0.2 million)
(f) Unallocated
(US$4 million)
3.26      Disbursements against item (a) (ii) and (c) of paragraph 3.25, will
be made against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation for which
will not be submitted for review, but will be retained by the borrower and
made available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision missions. All other expenditures under the loan will be fully
documented and submitted to the Bank along with the respective withdrawal
applications. Savings under any category could, upon agreement between the
Bank and the borrower, be allocated to any other category. A schedule of
estimated Bank disbursements is given in Annex 1, Table 9.
3.27      Under the proposed project, force account procedures would be
employed by OVP for subsurface pipe drain construction and for the construc-
tion of interceptor drains, major lateral channels and embankments and basic
drainage and river channels. The PU through its Accounting Department would



- 18 -
establish a system satisfactory to the Bank to monitor the cost in each case
and produce adequate data to support Statement of Expenditures for Bank with-
drawal applications. Under the project on-farm development credit component
for individual farmers ZB would disburse loans for some 1,500 farmers.
Presently, the Bank accepts from ZB under the First and Second Agricultural
Credit projects (Loans 1129-YU and 1477-YU) Statements of Expenditure to
cover Bank disbursements. ZB is experienced with this type of application
and its accounting and administrative procedures are satisfactory. OVP's
present cost accounting procedures for monitoring costs have been reviewed
by the appraisal mission and are considered to be satisfactory. Supervision
missions would be required to spot check civil works undertaken under force
account procedures, and make inspections to satisfy themselves that the work
has been completed and that the expenditure claim is reasonable. Supervision
missions would also continue to make spot checks of the data retained by ZB.
In all cases, disbursements would be made in local currency.
G. Environmental Impact
3.28       The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impact on the project area, and is likely to have beneficial effects in
several areas by providing drainage to the water-logged land. Most of the
flood control works have already been constructed. They consist of flood
control bypass channels which relieve urban areas that would be inundated
during high floods. Multipurpose dams have not been constructed at this
stage and are not necessary for this project. No detrimental effects on the
physical/chemical regime of the water are expected.
H. Role of Women
3.29       Yugoslavia has made considerable progress with respect to ensuring
equal opportunities for women. During the preparation of this project, the
Bank hired a consultant to study the role of women in the project area. 102
farm families in the project area were interviewed. It is expected that
women will be more directly involved in the primary agricultural production
when more employment opportunities arise outside the farm sector. However,
women often take over the work which men who have moved out of agriculture
have left. Since they practically have no other alternatives, employment
in agriculture is for them a social and economic necessity rather than the
result of their own free choice. It is expected that women will also benefit
from the increased employment opportunities resulting from the social sector
components of the project.



- 19 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Borrower: ZB
General
4.01      Zagrebacka Bank, Zagreb (ZB) would be the borrower of the proposed
loan. It would on-lend the Bank funds, together with its own resources to
finance civil works, equipment, consultants and training and on-farm develop-
ment investments by individual farmers and social sector enterprises in the
project area. It would mobilize other funds, if needed, to cover any finan-
cial deficit in the early years of the project until full development when
subborrowers would be financially self-sufficient. It would be responsible
for the appraisal and supervision of on-farm investments to be financed under
the agricultural credit component. ZB is the major source of credit to the
agricultural sector in the Republic. It is experienced in lending to agricul-
ture in both the social and the individual sectors. The quality of subproject
appraisals carried out by ZB under the Bank-financed agricultural projects has
been acceptable.  ZB's Department of Agriculture and Food Industry would
handle long-term credit for all project components. It would be responsible
for the appraisal of all subloans to individual and social sector enterprises
for on-farm development investments with the exception of technical appraisal
of subloans for subsurface drainage investments, for which OVP would be
responsible. The staff in the Department of Agriculture and Food Industry
has a satisfactory level of experience in appraising agricultural subprojects
under the Bank-financed projects as well as under its other operations. Since
1976, the staff has prepared appraisals according to the Bank's appraisal
requirements; these appraisals covered agro-industries as well as agricultural
subprojects in the social sector and agricultural production subprojects in
the individual sector. The staff members have undergone training organized
under the First Agricultural Credit Project in appraisal techniques. The
appraisal capability of ZB staff should further improve as a result of their
participation in seminars on appraisal techniques to be conducted under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project.
Appraisal Criteria for On-Farm Development Subprojects
4.02      ZB would carry out full appraisal of each loan request for on-farm
development with the exception of technical appraisal of subloans for sub-
surface pipe drain investments, paying particular attention to its technical,
financial, and economic viability; organization and management capabilities of
the subborrower; marketing aspects; adequacy of contingency allowances; and
the credit-worthiness of the subborrower. A particular justification will be
required, if the financial rate of return is below 12% in constant Dinars.
ZB would satisfy itself that subprojects and subborrowers have adequate debt
capacities in that they would generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service after meeting legal claims and appropriate reinvestment levels. In
case of individual farmer subloans which would normally be submitted to ZB
by social sector enterprises, or cooperatives which aggregate investment



- 20 -
proposals of several farmers with whom they have entered into a cooperation
agreement and borrow on their behalf, ZB would satisfy itself that the co-
operation agreements are satisfactory in all respects. In case of each social
sector subproject, for on-farm machinery, farmyards and access roads, ZB would
prepare a technical report with the assistance of consultants, as needed,
containing an evaluation of: (1) proposed scale of the subproject; (2) suit-
ability of the equipment to be used; (3) estimated investment and maintenance
and operating costs, including working capital requirements; (4) suitability
of proposed location; (5) subproject layout and design; (6) staff available to
the subborrower both for carrying out the subproject and for its operation.
ZB would also be responsible for meeting seasonal credit requirements for each
subborrower during the implementation of the project. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations from ZB that it will follow the above criteria in apprais-
ing subprojects.
Lending Terms
4.03      The terms of subloans for all components except for on-farm devel-
opment credit and subloans to OVP for equipment under the project would be for
a period of 15 years with a grace period of 5 years. The terms of subloans
to OVP for equipment would be for a period of 8 years with a grace period of 3
years and under the on-farm development credit component would be related to
the cash flow projections of each subproject and would range from 3 to 15
years including up to 5 years of grace on repayment of principal. Provided
the actual and projected financial situation of the subborrower permits, 20%
of investment costs defined to include all incremental investments in project
supported activities would be required in the form of equity.
4.04      The foreign exchange risk for the individual sector on-farm develop-
ment credit component would be borne by SR Croatia. For all other components
of the project the foreign exchange risk would be borne by social sector
enterprises, OVP, SVIZ-Sava and SIZ. ZB would take adequate steps to protect
itself against the exchange risk on subloan repayments made earlier than
amortization payments of the Bank loan. Assurances on foreign exchange
risk arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
On-Lending Interest Rates
4.05      ZB would under the on-farm development component on-lend the loan
proceeds to individual and social sector subborrowers at an effective rate of
11 percent through charging an on-lending interest rate of 9 percent and a fee
of 2 percent per annum for guarantee and other operations performed by ZB. It
would lend local funds at a minimum of 5 percent and 6 percent to individual
and social sector subborrowers respectively. The above on-lending rates are
in line with those established for recent Bank-financed agricultural and
industrial credit projects. These rates are expected to result in the minimum
blend rate of approximately 9.0% for the social, and 7.2% for the individual
sector subborrowers. For all other components of the project ZB would on-lend
the loan proceeds to OVP, SVIZ-Sava and SIZs at a spread of at least 0.5
percent above the Bank loan rate of 7.9% to ZB to cover administrative costs.
Assurances on the above interest rates were obtained during negotiations.



- 21 -
4.06      The annual inflation rate for Yugoslavia in 1978 is estimated to
have been about 13 percent and the actual annual inflation rates in 1977 and
1976 were 13 percent and 9 percent respectively. The projected annual rate of
inflation for the next three years is estimated to be 12 percent. On-lending
local interest rates are about 10-12 percent for funds from commercial banks
and 4-5 percent from funds available through budgetary transfers. The on-
lending rates to the social sector for Bank funds under the on-farm development
credit component of this project are not expected to be negative in real terms
given that the social sector enterprises would also be bearing the foreign
exchange risk. For the individual sector, the rates, though higher than those
charged by local banks will nevertheless not result in positive real rates.
The introduction of the new system of planning in Yugoslavia which embodies a
process of harmonization of investment programs through direct negotiations
between enterprises, raises questions about the precise role of interest rates
in the allocative process.  This issue of the role of interest rates is
currently being analyzed in a special study being undertaken under the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1477-YU).  As an interim measure,
however, it was agreed that uniform floor interest rates be set for on-lending
of local funds, a policy that has been pursued in subsequent agricultural and
industrial credit projects. Therefore, it has been decided, pending the
findings of the study, to maintain on-lending rates for the on-farm development
credit component of the project at the same level as those under the Second
Agricultural Credit Project.
Free Limit
4.07      ZB would forward to the Bank for review and approval its own
appraisal reports together with the technical reports prepared by its staff
or its consultants for agricultural credit subprojects whose total costs
exceed US$1.5 million. This would result in the Bank reviewing about 10
subproject appraisal reports over a 5-year period.
Supervision
4.08      ZB would supervise on-farm development subloans to ensure adequate
technical and financial supervision of the subprojects during and after their
construction. ZB will also require the subborrowers to submit their annual
financial statements, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year.
B. Implementing Agency: OVP
General
4.09      OVP as the Croatian water resource management agency for the Sava
River Basin would be in charge of project implementation and overall coordina-
tion between the various entities specifically responsible for carrying out
drainage works and operation and maintenance of drainage systems. Social
sector enterprises undertaking on-farm development investments, SIZs and
SVIZ-Sava have,with OVP, formed a community of associated labor to carry out



- 22 -
the project.  OVP is considered to be a competent and suitable entity for
discharging the above responsibility. Its organizational management and staff
structure in the project area is given in the Chart of Annex 1. A project
agreement with OVP details its specific responsibilities and obligations under
the project.
4.10      OVP's central office would implement the above functions through the
normal organizational channels within OVP. However, to handle the additional
work created by the project during its implementation, a Project Unit (PU)
would be established in the central office of OVP. The PU will supplement and
strengthen the central office of OVP during project implementation. The PU
would perform or coordinate all necessary actions to implement the project,
and subloan requests for subsurface pipe drains would be submitted to ZB
through PU. PU would be headed by an experienced director, who would report
directly to the director of OVP. PU would have adequate staff and would also
employ consultants to help improve the implementation of subsurface drainage
and set up an effective extension service. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from OVP that no later than March 31, 1980 PU would be created
and that its key staff would be appointed.
Responsibilities of OVP
4.11      As the implementation agency, OVP would have the direct responsibil-
ity to:
(a) finalize designs, prepare bid documents, evaluate bids, and
coordinate and supervise construction on all civil works
components of the project;
(b) construct by force account (i) interceptor drains, major
lateral channels and embankments, including enlargement of
capacities of river channels in the project area, and (ii)
subsurface drains with the construction machinery to be
financed under the project;
(c) take all necessary steps to support the land consolidation
program to be carried out by the communes and coordinate
all project construction activities with this program;
(d) form an agricultural extension service for the project area
as specified below;
(e) carry out adequate operation and maintenance of works in the
project area with operation and maintenance machinery to be
financed under the project;
(f) implement the training program for selected technical staff
for subsurface drains and extension service; and
(g) consult the Bank concerning any reorganization of OVP
which may affect project implementation.



- 23 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that OVP will carry out these
responsibilities.
Land Consolidation
4.12      Because of the irregular and scattered nature of private holdings,
a land consolidation program would be part of the project. Prior to the
beginning of construction in each specific area an agreement to consolidate
land would be obtained from participating farmers. No problems are antici-
pated because during project preparation, farmers in the project area were
consulted on land consolidation measures and almost all expressed readiness
to cooperate in these actions. However, should difficulties arise as they
have in other areas of Yugoslavia, the commission appointed by the Municipal
Authorities has the power under the SR Croatia Agricultural Land Use and
Consolidation Act of 1979 to carry out land consolidation without the consent
of land owners for the specific purpose of soil reclamation. OVP would
cause the communes to carry out the land consolidation program and would
coordinate this program with the project works. Assurances in this respect
were obtained from OVP during negotiations. It is expected that farmers
would adopt the proposed system without undue delays, since the ongoing land
consolidation program has shown good progress recently (for example, 3,500 ha
of land has been consolidated in Ivanic Grad and another 3,500 ha has been
approved for consolidation under this project).
Extension Service
4.13      During project implementation, the Project Unit would organize an
extension service for about 5,200 farmers in the project area. The proposals
are for a unified extension service which would have responsibility for all
individual farmers in the project area. It would operate a Training and Visit
Extension system. The service would be controlled by a Director of Extension
for the project. It would comprise generalist farm level extension staff, who
would be managed by a senior extension officer per 8-10 field staff and an
extension training group which would consist of subject matter specialists.
After the project implementation period the projects extension service would
be integrated in the republic-wide extension service to be implemented under
the extension service law presently under consideration.
4.14      This part of Yugoslavia lends itself well to group organization as
the farmers live in villages and are strongly community minded. Thus com-
munications between lead farmers and other farmers in the group could be
expected to be effective. The proposed extension service is planned with a
ratio of one extension staff to about 200 farmers. Participating farmers
under the supervision of one generalist would be divided into 8 groups of
about 25 farmers per group. They would be visited by the general extension
staff once every two weeks. These group sessions would be supported by visits
to demonstration farms and by meetings, lectures, etc. given by subject matter
specialists. Every two weeks, the extension staff would attend training
sessions given by the specialist extension training group and recommendations
for the next two weeks would be focused upon.



- 24 -
4.1'-     The specialist extension training group to be set up under the
project would be based in the project area. The group would be able to
provide continuous training and support for about 70 general extension staff.
This is about twice the number that would be required in the project area.
Consequentiy, the group would also support extension staff belonging to
neighboring communes. The reorganized extension service should be responsible
so1l1y for advising and training farmers. It should not become directly
involved with input supply or marketing. These services would continue to be
administered by co-operatives, the co-operative departments of the kombinats
and commercial organizations.
4.16      The main area of attention of the extension service with crops
would be the timeliness and level of fertilizer use. With livestock, atten-
tion should be given to buildings, particularly those for pigs, and feeding
systems. Recommendations would be developed for improving the quality of
home grown forage and for making the best use of concentrate rations for milk
production and cattle and pig fattening. Introduction of oil rape seed, a new
crop, would require particular effort on behalf of the extension service. It
would need to be supported by technical specialists from the oil rape seed
factory.
Operation and Maintenance
4.17      The four SIZs (Drainage User Associations) in the project area
are responsible for ensuring that operation and maintenance works are being
carried out and that funds for this purpose are being collected. The drainage
works including the pumping stations would be operated and maintained by the
four basic organizations of associated labor (BOALs Zagreb, Dugo Selo, Kutina
and Sisak) which operate in the project area. The standards of operation and
maintenance in the project area are still far from those required to obtain
efficient and dependable functioning of the drainage infrastructure. Under
the Project, OVP through its member BOAL's would initiate a program to provide
adequate maintenance service in the project area. This would be achieved by
purchasing equipment totalling US$1.5 million to perform the maintenance work
by BOALs under the technical direction of the Project Unit. A list of equip-
ment to be purchased for operation and maintenance is presented in Annex 1,
Table 10. The annual O&M cost is estimated to increase from about US$15/ha
without the project to US$30/ha at full development.
Training and Technical Assistance
4.18      The Project Unit would provide training and technical assistance
to technical staff involved in the construction and monitoring of subsurface
drains and would also establish a technical support unit for the training
of extension workers. Specialized training to the staff of the subsurface
drain unit will be necessary for efficient operation of these facilities.
4.19      Specialized consultants, on a short-term basis, would be engaged
by the Project Unit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for
subsurface drain investigations, design, construction and monitoring and for
the establishment of an extension service program. The Project Unit would
also select key staff involved in subsurface drainage and extension service
for Bank approved selected training courses abroad.



- 25 -
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Accounts and Audit
4.20      ZB would maintain a separate account for the project.  ZB will pro-
vide for independent examination and will obtain an opinion from independent
auditors on whether or not the funds have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided. As required by Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises
are audited annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK) which is accept-
able to the Bank. A full and qualified audit report on ZB for 1977 was
produced by SDK following generally accepted standards.
4.21      OVP would establish appropriate record keeping and reporting proce-
dures for the Project Unit. OVP would maintain separate accounts for all
financial transactions under the project and would submit annual reports
audited by SDK and acceptable to the Bank within 6 months of the end of the
fiscal year. Assurances were obtained that ZB and OVP will send audit
reports satisfactory to the Bank, within 6 months from the end of each fiscal
year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22      The project components to be constructed have been competently
conceived and formulated into a sound project plan. Whether successful sub-
surface drainage of the slowly permeable clays can be achieved, has not been
demonstrated or technically rationalized through the investigation on the
pilot farm Jezevo. Field observations suggest that the need for subsurface
drainage exists and that such drainage can be successfully achieved if pro-
perly implemented. However, there is an urgent requirement for competent
staff in the PU to investigate soil profiles and permeabilities, groundwater
conditions, and drain performance with the objective of developing design
criteria for effective subsurface drainage at least cost. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that OVP would (a) no later than March 31, 1980,
submit to the Bank for its review a subsurface drainage investigation and
monitoring program to measure the effectiveness of different types, spacing
and depth of existing and new subsurface drains in various soil categories,
(b) implement programs for investigations and monitoring taking into account
the Bank's comments, and (c) proceed with large scale subsurface pipe drain
investments only as and when the Bank has agreed upon the technical aspects.
4.23      Although OVP would be responsible for monitoring the project works
and subsurface drains, ZB would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation
of the project's credit component, and for this purpose would establish a
management information system. The monitoring system would focus on the real-
ization of the project as against the targets established during the appraisal
and would identify issues and potential implementation problems to be resolved.
The monitoring system should cover the following key aspects of project imple-
mentation: physical execution of the project; provision of extension and
other support services to individual farmers; extent of participation of
individual farmers in the land consolidation program; and production, yields
and income achieved in individual farms and social sector enterprises.



- 2b -
4.24      The project would include on-going evaluation to measure the pro-
gress realized and to enable remedial actions as necessary, so that all of the
project objectives are realized. It would focus on assessing productivity and
income iacreanss in individual farms and social sector enterprises. The on-
going evaluation would particularly focus on checking the developing impact
of the project and in the light of experience gained, propose adjustments
needed to achieve the project objectives. The results would also be used for
the design of possible follow-up projects. At mid 1979 prices, the monitoring
and evaluation system is estimated to cost Dinars 8 million or US$0.5 million
(0.4% of total project cost); the cost would be borne by OVP and ZB.
Reporting Requirements
4.25      ZB, with support of OVP, would provide the Bank, within 45 days
after the end of each calendar quarter, a progress report on the physical
execution and other aspects of the project. This report would focus on
implementation problems and corrective actions. It would also cover the
progress of sublending operations under the project. In addition ZB would
provide annual project evaluation reports covering aspects listed under
Monitoring and Evaluation. The first of such reports would be prepared for
the period ending December 31, 1980 and submitted within 3 months of the end
of the period and the last would coincide with the project completion date.
Project Completion Report
4.26      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within 6 months
of project completion, ZB, in coordination with OVP, would submit to the Bank
a report on the execution and initial operation of the project, its cost, the
benefit derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bank, OVP
and ZB of their respective obligations under the proposed loan, and project
agreements and accomplishment of the objectives of the proposed loan. This
report would be based mainly on the semi-annual progress reports of ZB, and
the monitoring reports and on-going evaluation reports for the project.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Land Use
Land Consolidation
5.01      In 1985 with the completion of the land consolidation program it
is expected that 14,500 ha will belong to the social sector, 25,500 ha to
individual farmers and 4,000 ha to non-agricultural households but partly used
for agriculture. It is projected that with the land consolidation program the
average number of plots per farm will decrease from 10 to 2. The average
farm size will increase from 4 ha in 1978 to 4.9 ha per farm at full develop-
ment, thus contributing to an increase in labor productivity.  The 25,500  ha
belonging to the individual farm sector are expected to be distributed among
farm sizes as follows:



- 27 -
Land Tenure Pattern in Project Area in 1985
Average
Farm Size            Farms                  Area               Farm Size
ha           Number   Percent        ha     Percent             ha
Less than 2        250       4.8         375        1.5           1.5
2 to 3             850      16.2       2,125        8.3           2.5
3 to 4           1,000      19.1       3,500       13.8           3.5
4 to 5           1,100      21.0       4,950       19.4           4.5
5 to 6             900      17.2       4,950       19.4           5.5
6 to 8             700      13.4       4,900       19.2           7.0
8 to 10            300       5.7       2,700       10.6           9.0
More than 10        133      2.6       2,000        7.8          15.0
TOTAL            5,233    100.0       25,500      100.0           4.9
Cropping Pattern
5.02      The main changes in the cropping pattern as a result of the project
are summarized below:
Cropping Pattern
Before
Project    Full Development
-------thousand ha---------
Individual Sector
Cereals                         12.8               17.8
Industrial crops                 0.0                1.0
Fruits and vegetables            2.7                2.7
Improved grass/forage            4.1                8.0
Permanent grass                 12.1                0.0
Second crop forage               0.0                2.5
Sub-Total                  31.7              32.0
Social Sector
Cereals                          2.8               11.4
Industrial crops                 0.1                2.8
Forage                           0.3                0.3
Permanent grass                  7.6                0.0
Sub-Total                  10.8              14.5
TOTAL CROPPED AREA              42.5               46.5



- 28 -
B. Production
5.03      Agricultural production would increase substantially as a result of
the project. About 19,700 ha of land previously in low yielding permanent
grass would come into arable rotation. Furthermore projected yields on cropped
lands throughout the 44,000 ha of land drained under the project would be ex-
pected to rise substantially as a result of the improved drainage and the
parallel establishment of an effective extension service. An increase in the
utilization of fertilizers and chemicals would be required to support these
higher yields. In the social sector it is assumed that land previously
cropped would follow a cropping pattern comprising approximately 40% wheat,
40% maize and 20% rape seed immediately after drainage. Land which was pre-
viously permanent pasture however would normally be planted to wheat or
possibly maize for the first two years after drainage and would then shift
to a three-crop rotation as above. The incremental production of wheat, maize
and rape seed would respectively meet the raw material needs of the existing
bakeries, feedmills and the oil extraction plant. In the private sector the
main change in the cropping pattern would be an increase in the percentage of
maize and the introduction of a small area of rape seed. As a result of
drainage a far smaller area of pasture would be required to supply the forage
needs of livestock. Much of the private sector incremental production of
maize would be fed to livestock and the livestock numbers, particularly pigs,
would expand accordingly. Under the project cow numbers would stay virtually
the same, but because of the availability of improved fodder most of the
calves would be fattened and sold at about 440 kg, rather than being sold as
weaned calves at about 110 kg.
5.04      Yield increases would take place in parallel with the expansion of
cropped areas. During the actual year of drainage, yields would be depressed
due to equipment moving and excavation material spreading over the land. Con-
sequently a yield of 80% of the "before project" situation is estimated to be
achieved in the year when the drainage actually takes place on any particular
piece of land. Full yield would not be achieved immediately after drainage
and it is expected that on any area of drained land it would take 3 years
phased at 80%, 90% and 100% of full development yields before those yields
would be reached. The before project and full development yields are shown
below:



- 29 -
Crop and Livestock Yields
Social Sector
Unit      Before Project   Full Development
Wheat                  ton/ha            3.7                5.5
Maize and
other cereals        ton/ha           4.8                 7.5
Other cereals          ton/ha            2.5                N.A.
Rape seed              ton/ha            2.0                3.0
Private Sector
Unit      Before Project   Full Development
Crops
Wheat                  ton/ha            2.8                4.6
Maize                  ton/ha            3.5                6.3
Other cereals          ton/ha            1.9                N.A.
Rape seed              ton/ha           N.A.                2.5
Potatoes               ton/ha           8.0                10.0
Vegetables             ton/ha            9.0               11.0
Livestock
Milk                    1/cow          2,000              2,550
Pigs                   pigs/sow            9                 12
Poultry                eggs/hen          120                150
Grass (dry matter)    ton/ha               4                 10
Stocking rate          animal           0.9                   2
unit/ha
5.05      The following table shows the annual production of primary products
expected from the project.



- 30 -
Annual Crop Production and Livestock Sales in Project Area
Before        Full
Project   Development   Incremental
----------thousand tons------------
Crop Production
Wheat                                11.7          59.8          48.1
Maize and other cereals /1            41.5        115.8           74.3
Rape seed                             0.2          10.9           10.7
Potatoes and vegetables              17.4          21.6           4.2
Livestock Production
Cattle (l.w.)                         2.7           4.6           1.9
Milk                               22,500        35,000        12,500
Pigs (l.w.)                           2.1           6.8           4.7
Poultry (l.w.)                        0.8           1.0           0.2
Eggs (millions)                      13.1          16.5           3.3
/1   Includes home grown maize and other cereals fed to livestock of
19.8 thousands tons before project and 39.1 thousand tons at full
development. Thus incremental maize sales amount to 55 thousand
tons.
C. Markets, Market Prospects and Prices
5.06      Because of its proximity to Zagreb the project area has direct
access to a substantial domestic market of over one million people, to well
developed agro-processing industries and to exporters. Virtually all of the
incremental project production would be consumed in Zagreb and the surrounding
area.
5.07      Agricultural products from the agrokombinats would normally pass
directly to the commercial processing and market agencies. There would
normally be an intermediary in the chain for the produce from individual
farmers, either a cooperative or a cooperative department of a kombinat. In
municipalities where neither a cooperative nor the cooperative department of
an agricultural kombinat is active, processing agencies handle collection/
purchasing themselves. For example the Zagreb dairy administers directly the
milk collection centers in Ivanic Grad.  No problems are expected in the
physical transport and marketing of produce from the project area. Buying
agencies are active and marketing margins which are limited by law in most
cases, are reasonable.



- 31 -
5.08      In the past Yugoslavia has been a net importer of wheat and market
prospects for domestically produced wheat are favorable. Incremental traded
wheat production of about 40,000 tons/year at full project development would
be absorbed entirely by Zitokombinat in Zagreb. Zitokombinat which is a flour
and baking organization has sufficient storage capacity around its factories
to buy the total incremental wheat production at harvest time. This quantity
of wheat is substantially less than the present annual usage of 100,000 tons
of which some 60% is obtained from Vojvodina.
5.09      Yugoslavia is usually a net exporter of maize.  Maize produced in
the social sector would be marketed through the commercial network after
having been dried within the project area. The production from small farmers
would be stored on the farms in cribs and allowed to dry naturally. Maize not
used on the farm for animal feeding, would be sold through the cooperatives or
kombinats to the animal feed industry or possibly to exporters in Zagreb. It
is expected that increased livestock production will absorb the incremental
maize production.
5.10      Yugoslavia has been, and is expected to continue to be, importing
substantial amounts of vegetable oil. The final purchaser of rape seed would
be the oil crushing mill in Zagreb which is in the process of relocating and
expanding its capacity from 60,000 tons to 150,000 tons input annually. Rape
seed from both the social and individual sectors would need to be dried. This
would be organized by the producer in the case of kombinats and by the coop-
eratives, and the cooperative departments of kombinats for the small farmers.
5.11      To cope with the expansion of cereal and oilseed production in the
area it will probably be necessary to increase drying capacity. The mission
was assured that when the amount of produce to be dried expands as a result of
the project, normal commercial investments would be made in drying facilities
by the kombinats.
5.12      Yugoslavia has experienced occasional shortages of milk supply and
therefore the incremental production of milk and milk products would be readily
absorbed. Most of the incremental milk produced in the project area would be
taken by producers to village collection centers (normally there is a collec-
tion center within 1.5 km of each dairy farm) from where it would be trans-
ported to Zagreb Dairy. These collection centers are run either by the Zagreb
Dairy directly or by the local cooperative and the system operates effectively.
In addition to milk sold to the dairy, a proportion of about 20% would be
retained for home consumption and for making fresh cheese which is a popular
local delicacy. Zagreb Dairy is presently moving into new premises where it
has the capacity for handling half a million liters of milk per day. Planned
utilization is 60% pasteurized fresh milk, 20% sterilized milk and 20% fresh
cheese, seasonal dried milk and other milk products.



- 32 -
5.13      Cattle and pigs would be marketed through the cooperatives that
arrange collection at village centers on behalf of processors. Final use will
mostly be in the form of fresh and processed meat in the Zagreb area although
a small quantity may go for export as Yugoslavia is a net exporter of meat
products. Prospects for continued exports and increased local demand for meat
are considered to be satisfactory.
5.14      Poultry, eggs, potatoes and vegetables would be marketed within the
villages or in Zagreb through the cooperatives or through private traders. As
Zagreb only receives about 20% of its potato and vegetable requirements from
surrounding municipalities, the small incremental production of the project
would be readily absorbed.
5.15      The main financial and economic prices which would apply to project
production are listed below. Details of calculations are shown in Annex 1,
Table 11.
Producer Prices
(Constant October 1978 Prices)
On-Farm                 Projected 1990
Financial Prices            Economic Prices
Din/kg       US$/ton        Din/kg      US$/ton
Wheat, individual sector       2.7            150           3.58          201
Wheat, social sector           2.8            156           3.50          201
Maize                          2.5            139           2.72          151
Other cereals                  2.4            133           2.43          135
Rape seed                      6.1            339           5.62          312
Potatoes                       2.5            139           2.5           139
Vegetables                     3.0            167           3.0           167
Beef (l.w.)                   25.0         1,390           23.5         1,306
Fat pigs (l.w.)               24.0         1,333           21.81        1,212
Poultry (l.w.)                22.0         1,222           22.0         1,222
Milk                           4.3 din/1.    23.9 $/1.   3.36 din/l.   18.7 $/1.
Eggs                           1.2 din/ea.    6.7 c/ea.  1.2 din/ea.    6.7 c/ea.
D. Financial Benefits
5.16      There are approximately 5,200 farms in the individual sector.  A
farm budget and cash flow statement have been prepared (Annex 1, Table 12)
for a representative farm of 5 ha since farms cannot be larger than 10 ha by
Yugoslav law, and farming systems are uniform on farms within the range of 1
to 10 ha. Apart from an increase in cropped area from about 45% to 70% of
farm area because of drainage, there will not be a major change in the basic
farming system. The present agricultural annual income for farmers ranges
from about 7,800 dinars (US$433) for 1 ha farm households to 78,000 dinars



- 33 -
(US$4,330) for 10 ha farm households. For families on smaller farms (less
than 3 ha) agricultural income constitutes only an estimated fourth to a half
of total income. As a result of the project, farm family net benefits per ha
will increase by over 70% at full development. The cash flows indicate that
farmers will be in a liquid financial position throughout the project and can
expect high financial rates of return. Assuming a farm family of 3.3 on a 5
ha farm, the per capita agricultural annual income will rise from about
11,800 dinars (US$657) to about 20,300 dinars (US$1,130) at full development.
5.17      The social sector kombinats in the project area are large enterprises
with diverse operations beside crop production. Currently the social sector
incurs net losses of about 8.6 million dinars (US$0.5 million) per year from
its crop production operations mainly because of drainage problems. It is
estimated that at full development the social sector will realize an average
of 73.8 million dinars (US$4.1 million) of annual net benefits (revenues less
operating costs less taxes less reinvestments). The cash flows for the social
sector (Annex 1, Table 13) indicate that the sector as a whole will not be in
a liquid financial position in its crop production operations until the fifth
year of the project due to the gradual build-up of benefits. The deficits
will be covered from other profitable operations of the kombinats (mainly
processing, and some trade). The financial rate of return for all resources
used (infrastructure and on-farm development investments), including borrowed
and equity funds is expected to be about 11%.
E. Cost Recovery
5.18      In determining the extent of cost recovery a cost recovery index has
been derived using a typical farm model for the private sector and the esti-
mated cash flows for the total social sector.  The Cost Recovery Index is
defined as the ratio of the present worth of incremental project charges paid
by project farmers to present worth of incremental project construction and
operation and maintenance costs.
5.19      All charges, taxes, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of discount over the 40-year evaluation
period, and in terms of October 1978 constant prices. Costs and benefits
represent financial flows and in determining the cost recovery index, project
capital costs include taxes. Recovery of the capital and recurrent costs of
the proposed project will be effected through four types of charges detailed
below:
(1) There will be a project charge of 2,000 dinars/ha to be paid
to the local municipalities over a period of two years in four
equal installments. This charge will be paid by both the indi-
vidual and social sectors and will be for partial coverage of
capital costs of the project (drainage infrastructure works,
pumping station costs, administrative costs, etc.). The dif-
ference between the costs and charges for the project will be
financed through municipality budgets, the local Self-Managed
Water Economy Interest Communities (SIZ) and the Self-Managed



- 34 -
Water Economy Interest Community of the Sava River (SVIZ-Sava).
The present value of the incremental capital outlays by the
public sector excluding investments financed under the
on-farm development credit component is 17,052 dinars/ha on
behalf of the social sector in the project area (5 kombinats,
the pilot farm, and plant breeding institute), and 24,916
dinars/ha on behalf of the individual sector. Of these
incremental discounted public sector capital outlays, a
present value of 1,350 dinars/ha from the social sector and
1,736 dinars/ha from the individual sector are recovered via
this project charge.
(2) Under the Croatian system of taxation, all social sector
enterprises in the Republic pay a tax equal to 0.765% of
their value-added (revenue less production costs exclusive of
salaries, and less depreciation) to the Republic SVIZs of the
river basins. Some incremental revenues will accrue to SVIZ
after implementation of the project as a result of the incre-
mental value added of the project area kombinats generated by
increased crop production. The incremental revenues of SVIZ
are for partial recovery of capital costs of the project
and not for O&M costs.  The present value of the incremental
Republic water taxes to be paid by the social sector in the
project area is 327 dinars/ha.
(3) In Croatia the individual farmer pays a land tax calculated
on the basis of the cadastral value of the land determined
every few years by local authorities according to the land's
estimated productivity. This land tax is paid to local
communities and therefore any incremental land tax revenues
accruing to these communities as a result of the project can
be considered to be a recovery of capital outlays made on
behalf of the individual sector from community budgets. It is
assumed that this cadastral land tax will increase in approxi-
mate proportion to the increase in revenue less operating
costs as a result of the improvement of the land starting
in year 4. The current level of this tax is 1,100 dinars/ha;
the final estimated level is 1,900 dinars/ha. The present
value of the incremental land tax paid by the individual
sector is 5,850 dinars/ha.
(4) There exists an annual drainage charge of 270 dinars/ha.
This charge has been historically maintained at or below
the value of 100 kg of wheat, and is paid to the local SIZ by
both the individual and social sectors. The funds generated
from this charge are used for the operation and maintenance of
the channels and pumping stations by SIZ. This charge will be
increased after the implementation of the project, as necessary,
to meet the O&M costs of the expanded network. According to
Articles 113 and 114 of the Water Act of 1974, the local SIZ
must recover fully O&M costs via drainage charges, or else



- 35 -
communes will intervene and collect the necessary funds.
A drainage charge holiday of three years for the individual
sector participating in land consolidation is anticipated.
It is assumed that the full burden of O&M costs will be
shared equally by the individual and social sectors on the
basis of land area after the three year grace period for
the individual sector, and will amount to 540 dinars/ha/
year. The present value of the O&M charge paid by the
social sector is 1,981 dinars/ha and by the individual
sector is 1,302 dinars/ha.
5.20      In sum, of the 19,033 dinars/ha incremental discounted public
sector outlays for both capital and O&M costs made on behalf of the social
sector, 3,658 dinars/ha will be recovered. Similarly, of the 27,562 dinars/ha
incremental discounted public sector outlays for the individual sector, 8,888
dinars/ha will be recovered. The cost recovery indices is 19% for the social
sector and 32% for the individual sector. Including subsurface pipe drains
the cost recovery index for the social sector is 26%. The cost recovery
index for both sectors taken together is approximately 29% excluding subsur-
face drains and 32% including subsurface drains. The balance would be borne by
ZB by charging less than 10% interest in real terms and by SVIZ-Sava repaying
for investment costs for main drains and pumping stations from their overall
basin charges. Examination of cash flow Table 13 indicates that higher water
charges are not justifiable for the social sector. A higher level of cost
recovery is justified for the individual sector on the basis of the farm model
cash flows of Table 12 and the high financial rate of return. However, the
average individual sector farmer's income is much lower than the social sector
staff income which precludes achievement of a much higher level of cost
recovery from the individual sector.
5.21      It should be noted that subsurface pipe drains will be financed
through credit from ZB. Capital cost for these investments will therefore be
fully recovered through credit repayments at 9% interest and an assumption of
the foreign exchange risk for a 59% portion of the subloan. The lower cost
recovery index for the social sector must also be viewed in light of the fact
that the social sector will bear the full foreign exchange risk on the foreign
exchange component of on-farm development credit whereas the individual
sector's foreign exchange risk on the foreign exchange component for on-farm
development credit will be borne by the SR Croatia.
5.22      As a result of the project, the tax base of the kombinats will in-
crease thereby generating incremental discounted tax revenue of 75.83 million
dinars from the social sector over the life of the project for use by other
special interest unions (e.g. culture, education, social security, health,
etc.) at the republic level.  These additional tax revenues are not taken into
account in this cost recovery analysis since they accrue to authorities other
than those that undertake the project's investments.
5.23      The taxes and charges are selective in the sense that they affect
only project beneficiaries. However it must be noted that although general
taxes are not increased for non-project participants as a result of the



- 36 -
APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Calculation of Cost Recovery Index /a
(Excluding On-Farm Development Credit Component)
Private Sector              Social Sector               Both Sectors /b
Farm Model:  5 ha       Crop Production:  14,500 ha           44,000 ha
Thousand Dinars              Million Dinars              Million Dinars
1) Gross value of farm production                              550.41                     1,430.41                   4,677.83
2) Less production cash costs                                  240.41                       582.62                    2,001.04
3) Equals net cash income (1-2)                                310.00                       847.79                    2,676.79
4) Cadastral land tax /c                                        29.25                        _                          172.58
5) Croatia Water Interest Union (SVIZ) tax /d                    -                             4.74                       4.74
6) Drainage charge /e                                            6.51                        28.73                       67.14
7) Project charge /f                                             8.68                         19.57                      70.78
8) Total direct charges/taxes (4+5+6+7)                         44.44                         53.04                     315.24
9) Public sector capital outlays /g                            124.58                       247.25                      982.27
10) Public sector O+M outlays /h                                 13.23                         28.73                     106.79
11) Total public sector outlays                                 137.81                       275.98                    1,089.06
12) Cost Recovery Index  (8:11 in %)                     32%                         19%                         291
/a  All items are incremental, discounted values at constant October 1978 prices, or percentages derived from them.
The discounting rate used is 10%, and the period 40 years.
/b  Figures are estimated by aggregating the farm model for the private sector and adding on the social sector.
/c  Tax based on estimated productive value of land for private sector only.  Assumed to increase in approximate proportion
to increase in revenue less operating costs as a result of improvement of land with project starting in year 4 (increase
from 1,100 to 1,900 dinars/ha).
/d  No incremental general taxes for the private sector.  For the social sector incremental tax stream computed as follows:
Inc. taxes = Max   0; 13% (Inc. revenues - Inc. Op. Costs + Inc. Direct labor costs - Inc. drainage fee - Inc. Depreciation)
/e  It is assumed that a drainage charge will not be assessed for the first 3 years after project implementation only for
the private sector. It is also assumed that the drainage charge will be increased from the current 270 dinars/ha to
cover drainage infrastructure O+M costs of 540 dinars/ha starting in year 4 for the private sector, and upon completion
of project works (year 7) for the social sector.
/f  2,000 dinars/ha paid over two years to the municipalities for partial coverage of project costs for newly drained land
starting in the year of drainage (the year of drainage is year 1 for the private sector farm model, and includes proper
phasing for the social sector.)
/g  Outlays by the Water Economy Interest Community (SIZ/SVIZ) and communes.
24,917 dinars/ha in year I for the private sector farm model.
For the social sector, derived from allocation of proiect costs including taxes and physical contingencies.
/h  Outlays by Water Economy Interest Communities and communes.
A difference between O+M public sector outlays and drainage charges appears only for the private sector farm model and
is due to the initial 3 year period when the drainage charge is waived. The private sector O+M costs during this period
are assumed to remain at 270 dinars/ha.
December 1978



- 37 -
project, public sector outlays come in part from Water Economy Interest
Community funds generated throughout the Republic (SVIZ funds) and from
general municipality funds with diverse sources.
F. Economic Justification
5.24      The economic benefits of the project would stem from switching 19,700
ha of land which was previously undrained growing low yielding permanent grass
into arable land, and from increases in yields and an increase of about 6% of
cropping intensity on the remaining 24,300 ha drained under the project. Of
the total land, 14,500 ha would be in the social sector and 29,500 ha in the
individual sector after project implementation. In the individual sector the
increases in production of cereal crops and higher yields of grassland would
be utilized through an expansion of livestock, mainly pigs and cattle. The
direct beneficiaries would be some 5,200 farmers in the individual sector, 5
kombinats, a plant breeding institute and a pilot farm. Indirect benefits
would be realized in agro-industries mainly outside the project area. Some
8,000 non-farm families in the project area would also benefit because the
surface drainage implemented under the project would lower the water table
and reduce the risk of flooding in vegetable gardens attached to houses.
5.25      Although the access roads to be constructed under the project are
primarily for the purpose of moving agricultural machinery from field to
field they would also reduce personal transport costs of people living in the
vicinity of them.
5.26      In the individual farm sector the cost of basic drainage infra-
structure and land consolidation including physical contingencies would be
about US$1,290 per ha. While in the social sector the cost for basic infra-
structure, subsurface drains, farmyards and farm roads including physical
contingencies would average about US$3,050 per hectare. Costs per farm family
in the individual sector would be about US$8,700.
5.27      During the five year project implementation period an average of 500
new jobs per year would be created. The project would also increase employ-
ment for underemployed family members of the 5,200 farmers and thus increase
their income. About 400 new permanent positions would be created in the
social sector at full development.
5.28      From the national standpoint, the project would support the Govern-
ment's plans of increasing grain and livestock production. It would also help
to reduce disparities between urban and rural area. Since this would be the
first of a series of drainage projects in the Sava River Basin, the participat-
ing agencies would gain experience under the project which would be valuable
later.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.29      Basis.  The economic rate of return was calculated (Annex 1, Table
20) on the basis of changes forecast in agricultural production with the



- 38 -
project compared with the agricultural situation "before" the project on the
44,000 ha drained under the project. Implicit in this assumption is the fact
that the level of yield increases and other changes due to non-project factors
without the project would be the same as with the project. Details of the
drainage phasing and the development of cropped areas and crop yields in both
the social and the individual sector are given in Annex 1, Tables 14-18.
5.30      Cost Stream.  The economic cost stream includes drainage infrastruc-
ture, on-farm development (levelling, clearing, subsurface drainage, roads,
buildings), investment in farm machinery, project administration, incremental
costs of extension and banking services, the operation and maintenance of the
drainage system, and the incremental agricultural operating costs.
5.31      The project cost table (Annex 1, Table 8) includes only project
works which will be undertaken from January 1980 on. Some preliminary project
works have been undertaken in 1978 and are being undertaken in 1979. For
analytical purposes these costs which are equivalent to about 5% of the total
are added and are considered to have been incurred in 1979. The economic
costs for the on-farm development and machinery in the public sector are based
on the same items as in the project cost table. Economic on-farm investment
in the individual sector has been calculated on the basis of the additional
livestock which would be kept under the project and on the machinery which
would be required to cultivate the additional hectares of cropped land. These
investment figures do not correspond precisely to the individual sector credit
component of the project as part of the investments are assumed to be self-
financed and others, for example the purchase of livestock by one farmer from
another, are not considered economic costs.
5.32      Drainage maintenance costs estimated at US$30/ha including pumping
would be considered an economic cost as would incremental banking administra-
tion costs at an estimated 2% of loans disbursed.
5.33      Incremental annual agricultural costs for both sectors shown in
Annex 1, Table 19 are calculated on the basis of the detailed phasing of areas
cropped and livestock numbers of Annex 1, Tables 16-18 and the cost coeffi-
cients given in the Project Implementation Volume. These costs are adjusted
so that they occur prior to the corresponding output thereby taking account of
incremental working capital including carrying of home grown maize inventories.
5.34      Additional cost streams of the economic analysis include reinvest-
ment costs to be incurred in replacing farm machinery, drainage maintenance
equipment and extension service vehicles.
5.35      Benefits.  Details of the calculation of the incremental quantities
of crop and livestock products coming from the project are given in the Proj-
ect Implementation Volume. The areas being drained are phased in line with
the physical development of the catchment areas and yield increases are phased
as well. A crop yield of 80% of the without project situation has been
assumed in the year when the drainage is actually taking place. Thereafter
yields are phased at 80%, 90% and 100% of full development yields. Livestock
numbers are projected to increase at a similar rate, i.e., in parallel to the
expansion of the feed base. This gives full project production by 1988.



- 39 -
5.36      Prices.  Project output prices for wheat, maize, barley, rape seed,
beef, and indirectly for pork and poultry, using grain price projections, are
based on the World Bank's Commodity Price projections in constant 1978 dollars
for 1990. Local prices have been used for potatoes, vegetables, eggs and the
proportion of milk which is consumed on farm or made into cheese on the
farm. For local fresh milk sales an import parity price of constituent parts
plus cost of reconstitution plus a 50% consumer preference has been used. For
all other manufactured milk products such as dried milk and yogurt the import
parity price of constituent parts plus cost of reconstitution has been used.
Details of the calculation of economic prices are given in Annex 1, Table 11.
5.37      Investment and operating costs have been priced at constant 1978
figures, based on local financial prices, adjusted for taxes and duties.
However in the case of fertilizer there is an expected increase of the world
price in real terms between 1978 and 1990. Consequently, fertilizer prices
are adjusted to bring them in line with the 1990 projections, in parallel to
output items. Economic costs and benefits are assessed at October 1978 prices
while in the project cost table they are estimated at June 1979 prices--an
estimated 8% higher than the investment cost in the economic analysis.
5.38      Hired labour in the public sector is included at its financial
cost, ranging from $2.17 per hour for a farm laborer to $14,800 per year for
the project director. In the individual sector, family labour is shadow-
priced at 80% of the farm laborer's rate. This rate reflects under-employment
on most of the family farms.
5.39      A standard conversion factor (official exchange rate, divided by
shadow exchange rate) of 0.93 is applied to the prices of non-traded outputs
and the local cost component of non-traded input items.
5.40      The economic analysis of the project is calculated over a 40-year
period. A residual value for construction equipment, at one third of its
initial cost, is allowed for the draglines and drain layers in 1985 (year 7).
Residual values for incremental livestock numbers and agricultural equipment
have been estimated for year 41.
5.41      The best estimate of the overall economic rate of return for the
whole project with indicated shadow pricing of family labour and foreign
exchange is 17%. Without shadow pricing of family labour, and the exchange
rate, the ERR would be 15%. Changes in the investment costs in the range
considered would have little impact on the overall rate of return. The table
below shows the sensitivity of the internal rate of return to various factors.
The project can be seen to be insensitive to most changes, although a 15%
reduction in benefits with no change in costs would bring the ERR close to 11%.



- 40 -
Summary of Economic Rates of Return (%)
With          Without
Best     Sh.Pricing   Sh. Pricing    Present Value
But Without                   at 12% For Best
Sh. Labor                        Estimates
Test Cases           Estimate       F/X        F/X and labor   (US$ million)
Base Case              16.6         15.5          15.0                24.3
Benefits down 10%      13.2         12.1          11.6                 6
Benefits down 15%       11.4        10.5          10.0                -3
Investment costs
up 10%               15.1         14.1          13.6               17.6
Investment costs
up 20%               13.8         12.8          12.4                10.9
Operating costs
up 10%               15.0         13.9          13.3                15.5
Benefits and Costs
down 20%             13.2         12.4          12.0                6.2
Benefits and Costs
lagged 1 year        14.4         13.5          13.1               14.3
Percent Change Leading to Switching Values
Crop Benefits - 19.6%; Livestock Benefits - 45.5%; Operating Costs - 27.8%;
Investment Costs - 36.5%.
G. Project Risks and Uncertainty
5.42      The main risks to the economic success of the project lie in the
estimation of benefits. Decreases in project commodity prices, or the
achievement of significantly lower yields than those forecast would lead to
a significant reduction in the project's rate of return. The switching values
indicate that a 19.6% decrease of crop benefits would lead to a net present
value of zero using a 12% discount rate. The possibility that part of the
land in the social sector cannot effectively be drained by subsurface drains
and will be unsuitable for mechanized cropping exists. However, even if this
figure were as high as 20% of the land in the social sector (2,900 ha), the
rate of return would only be 2% lower. Since subsurface drain effectiveness
has not been properly investigated in the project area there is a risk that
drains to be implemented in the first year of the project will not be designed
at least cost. However, the risk that part of the investments in an area of
about 1,000 ha costing about US$1.3 million in mid 1979 prices may not be
implemented at least cost must be compared with the costs for new drainage
investigations and loss of benefits due to postponement of a project with 85%
of the investment costs demonstrated to have little uncertainty. Risks in
overrun of construction costs exist, however, adequate physical contingen-
cies have been included in the ERR calculation. Other risks are very low.
OVP is a well established body with considerable engineering experience, the



- 41 -
kombinats in the area are well staffed with agriculturalists, and, most
important, the individual farmers are experienced and skilled in the type of
agriculture to be practiced under the project.
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENT TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ZB that it
would:
(i) follow the financing procedures outlined in paras 3.19
and 3.20;
(ii) follow the procurement procedures outlined in paras
3.21 through 3.24;
(iii) follow sub-loan appraising criteria described in para 4.02;
(iv) follow foreign exchange risk arrangements as outlined in
para 4.04;
(v) charge interest rates as outlined in para 4.05;
(vi) follow the auditing procedures as outlined in paras 4.20
and 4.21;
(vii) submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report as
outlined in para 4.26.
6.02      Assurances were obtained during negotiations from OVP that it
would:
(i) follow the procurement procedures as outlined in paras
3.21 through 3.24;
(ii) no later than March 31, 1980 establish the Project Unit,
and appoint key staff of the Project Unit (para 4.10);
(iii) carry out its responsibilities under the project as
outlined in para 4.11;
(iv) cause the communes to carry out the land consolidation
program and would coordinate this program with the project
works (para 4.12);
(v) follow the auditing procedures as outlined in paras 4.20
and 4.21;
(vi) submit to the Bank for its review a subsurface drainage
investigation and monitoring program no later than



- 42 -
March 31, 1980, as outlined in para 4.22, implement
programs for investigations and monitoring taking into
account the Bank's comments and proceed with large
scale subsurface pipe drain investments only as and
when the Bank has agreed upon the technical aspects.
6.03      The signing of six Subsidiary Loan Agreements to reflect financial
arrangements between ZB and OVP, SVIZ-Sava and four SIZs would be a condition
of the loan's effectiveness (para 3.20).
6.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$51 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3-year grace period.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                       Table 1
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cropping - Before Project/i
Public sector         Private sector             Total
ha        %           ha          %          ha
Cultivated area
Annual crops
Cereals
Wheat                 800       7          3,100       10        3,900       9
Maize               1,700      15          8,900       27       10,600      24
Others                300       3            800        2        1,100       2
Total cereals         2,800      25         12,800       39       15,600      35
Rape seed               100       1           -          -           100      -
Vegetables
Potatoes              -        -           1,500        4        1,500       4
Other veg.            -        -             600        2          600       1
Total vegetables        -        -           2,100        6        2,100       5
Forage crops            300       2          1,200        4        1,500       4
Perennial crops
Clover/alfalfa          -        -           2,900        9        2,900       7
Fallow                    600       5            900        3        1,500       3
TOTAL CULTIVATED          3,800      33         19,900       61        23,700     54
Permanent grass
Meadows                 4,400      39         11,300       35       15,700      36
Pasture                 3,200      28            800        2        4,000       9
Total perm. grass       7,600      67         12,100       37       19,700      45
Orchards                    -        -             600        2           600      1
TOTAL CROPPING           11,400    100          32,600      100        44,000    100
/1  The project area is 61,200 ha of which 17,200 ha is forests and other
non-agricultural land.
December 1978



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                         Table 2
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cropping - Full Project Development /1
Public sector         Private sector             Total
ha        %           ha          %         ha
Annual crops
Cereals
Wheat                 5,700      39         6,200       21        11,900     27
Maize                 5,700      39        11,600       39        17,300     39
Total cereals          11,400      78        17,800       60        29,200     66
Rape seed               2,800      20         1,000        4         3,800      9
Vegetables
Potatoes                -       -           1,500        5         1,500      4
Other veg.              -       -             600        2           600      1
Total vegetables          -        -          2,100        7         2,100      5
Forage crops
Maize silage            300       2         1,000        3         1,300      3
2nd crop  /2            -       -           2,500        8         2,500      6
Perennial crops
Grass/clover /3           -        -          7,000       24         7,000     16
Orchards                    -        -             600       2           600       1
TOTAL CROPPING           14,500    100         32,000      108        46,500    106
Land area cropped        14,500    100          29,500     100        44,000    100
/1  The project area is 61,200 ha of which 17,200 ha is forests and other non-
agricultural land.  Loss of area due to drainage channels and dykes is
compensated by clearance of land which was in forest "before project".
/2 Green fed grown after wheat or rape seed.
/3 About 5,000 ha rotational, 2,000 ha permanent.
December 1978



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                         Table 3
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Livestock Production
Before Project               With Project          Incremental
No.                        No.                Situation
Livestock Numbers /1
Cattle
Milk cows                   14,500                     14,000                    (500)
Pregnant heifers             2,000                      2,000                   nil
Young stock 4-14 months    4,100                       10,000                   5,900
Calves 0-4 months            2,100                      3,550                   1,450
Total cattle                  22,700                     29,550                   6,850
Horses                         5 800                     2,000                  (3,800)
Pigs /1
Sows                         6,000                      9,000                   3,000
Pigs 25-100 kg               3,800                     21,150                  17,350
Pigs under 25 kg            10,800                     21,600                  10,800
Total pigs                    20,600                     51,750                  31,150
Laying hens                  110,000                    110,000                   nil
Other poultry                 65,000                     65,000                   nil
Net sales
Meat                   No.      tons l.w.           No.    tons l.w.    No.         tons l.w.
Beef cull cows
(550 kg)          2,750       1,510           2,600      1,460       (90)            (50)
440 kg cattle /2   1,200          530           7,200      3,170    6,000            2,640
110 kg calves       6,350         700            -          -       (6,350)            (700)
10,300       2,740           9,800     4,630       (440)          1,890
Pork
Cull sows
(150 kg)          1,980         300           2,970        450       990             150
100 kg pigs         6,940         690          50,000      5,000   43,060            4,310
25 kg pigs         45,000       1.125          54,940      1,370    9A940              245
53,940      2,115          107,910      6,820   53,990           4,705
Poultry /3                           820                        950                       130
Milk (million 1)                      22.5                       35.0                      12.5
Eggs (million)                        13.2                       16.5                       3.3
/1  Numbers based on year round breeding.
/2  About 20% of these would be sold at lighter weights (200 kg) as veal, and
about 30% at 600 kg as heavy beef for the domestic market, then the average
would remain at 440 kg.
/3  Geese and ducks as well as cull hens.
December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
ZAGREBACKA BANKA
BALANCE SHEET
(B  thousands of dinars)
1 $ = Din 18,8035
ASSETS                      1.1.1978    30.6.1978   iindex                      LIABILITIES                    1.1.1978    30.6.1978  3inde2
___________                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3:232
1                          2            3         4                                1                          2            3          4
CASH AND OTHER LIQUID ASSETS             1,578,646    2,119,634    134            FUNDS                                     4,138,341 | 4,476,806   ,108
in dinars                              895,267    1,143,578    128            joint and several liability fund          2,134,592    2,495,397    117
reserve fund                               619,542      619,542    100
in foreign exchange                    683,379     976,056    143             fixed assets fund                         1,241,857    1,242,366    100
OBLIGATORY RESERVE AND                                                            other funds                                 142,350      119,501     84
DEPOSITS WITH THE NATIONAL BANK                              ~SHORT-TERM ASSOCIATED FUNDS
DEPOSITS  WITH THE NATIONAL BANK         4,472,071    5,160,413      5            AND OTHER DEPOSITS                       32,599,943   355910,116    110
b y le galI e nt it i es              23.812,911   25,571,932-  1_07_
ASSOCIATED FUNDS, TIME DEPOSITS                                                       in dinars                            20,498,918   20,348,520     99
AND SECURITIES                           5,586,438    7,709,350    138                 in foreign exchange                  3,313,993    5,223,412    158
s h o r t - t e r m d e p o s i t s    1,921,927    2,881,965    150              s h o rt - t e r m
p er s onalI d ep os i ts               8,787.032    10,338,184    118
in dinars                            1,869,295    2,803,171    150                in dinars                             4,900,606    6,055,619    124      >
in foreign exchange                     52,632       78,794    150                in foreign exchange                   3,886,426    4,282,565    110
I 0 n g - t e r m d e p o s i t s      3,664,511    4,827,385    132            MEDIUM & LONG-TERM ASSOCIATED
in dinars                  _________________FUNDS AND OTHER DEPOSITS                                            7.626,430    8,253,179    108
in dinars                            3,664,511    4,826,206    132              by I eg a I e n t i t i e s             3,532,369    3,928,405    111
in foreign exchange                     -             1,179    -                  in dinars                             3,527,607    3,923,599    111
in foreign exchange                      4.762        4,806    101
SHORT-TERM LOANS                        11,827,002   12,669,566    107              medium & long - term
in dinars                           11,777,971    12,585,384    107             p e r s o n a I d e po s i t s          4,094,061    4,324,774    105
in foreign exchange                    49,031        84,182    172                in dinars                             1,787,128    1,652,836     92
in foreign exchane                   2,306.933    2,671,938    116
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM LOANS                25,290,779   28,246,181    112            SECURITIES                                   -             -         _
in dinars                           23,966,240   26,756,487    112            SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS                     2,548.884    3,847,063    151
in foreign exchange                  1,324,539    1,489,694    112                domestic                              2,490,473    3,820,834    153
foreign exchange            1,489,694                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~foreign                    58.409       26.229     45
INTERBANK RELATIONS                         -            -         -              MEDIUM & LONG TERM BORROWINGS             3.727,034    4,038,504    108
domestic                              2,406,181    2,606,527   .108
FIXED ASSETS                               581,293      664,127    114                foreign                                1,320,853    1,431,977    108
INTERBANK RELATIONS                          -            -         _
OTHER ASSETS                             2,341,782    3,016,614    129            OTHER LIABILITIES                          1,037,379    3,060,217    295
SUB-TOTAL ASSETS                    51,678,011    59,585,885    115               SUB-TOTAL LIABILITIES                51,678,011    59,585,885    115
TRANSACTIONS ON BEHALF AND                                                        TRANSACTIONS ON BEHALF AND
FOR ACCOUNT OF LEGAL ENTITIES                                                     FOR ACCOUNT OF LEGAL ENTITIES
AND CITIZENS                             6,160,447    6,845,652    111            AND CITIZENS                              6,160,447    6,845,652    111
TOTAL ASSETS                            57,838,458   66,431,537    115            TOTAL LIABILITIES                        57,838,458   66,431,537    115
OTHER BANKING TRANSACTIONS              42,446,917   50,609,173    119            OTHER BANKING TRANSACTIONS               42,446,917   50,609,173    119
letters of credit                   11,130,836   11,618,091    104                letters of credit                    11,130,836   11,618,091    104
gua-afitees                         18,930,142   25,410,537    134                guarantees                           18,930,142   25,410,537    134       _
collection of commercial papers      2,810,213    3,417,439    122                collection of commeroial papers       2,810,213    3,417,439    122
other transactions                   9,575,726   10,163,106    106                other transactions                    9,575,726   10,163,106    106
TOTAL                                  100,285,375  117,040,710    117            TOTAL                                   100,285,375  117,040,710    117



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                          Table 5
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Zagrebacka Banka
Statftent of Income
Years Ended Decemiber 31, 1978; 1977, and 1976
(Million Dinars)
1978 /1         1977 /2          1976 /2
Revenues
Interest and charges on loans           3,341.1          2,937.9         2,287.8
Banking services and fees                  144.6           131.6             80.8
Other                                      355.0           702.6            538.7
Total                                 3,840.7          3,772.1         2,907.3
Expenses
Financial
Interest and charges on short-
term borrowings                       450.4            267.2           135.6
Loans written off                   ) 2                  106.6             4.5
Other                                 2,051.7 /        2,262.7         1,766.3
Subtotal                        2,502.1         2,636.5         1,906.4
Administrative
Salaries and related expenses           380.1            297.5           239.8
Depreciation                             33.4             31.5            29.6
Other                                   121.4            105.8            84.0
Subtotal                          534.9           434.8            353.4
Total                                 3,037.0          3,071.3         2,259.8
Net operating surplus                        803.7           700.8            647.5
Less general taxes                            0               0                0
Net surplus after taxes                      803.7           700.8            647.5
Distribution of net surplus
To working capital fund                     0               0               298.0
To property and equipment fund             500.0           384.5             0
To reserve fund                            155.0           122.0            146.0
To joint liability fund                     90.0            91.3             92.6
To communities fund                         58.7            61.2             47.0
To other funds                              0               0                 4.3
to members of Bank                         0                41.8             59.6
Total                                   803.7            700.8           647.5
/1  Estimated figures.
/2  Based on statements of ZB's predecessors, Kreditna Banka, Zagreb, and
Jugobanka-Main Branch, Zagreb.
/3  A breakdown of loans written off and Other not available.           December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project-Related ZB Cash Flows During Life f Froposed IBRD Loan
(MillUion Dinaa) L
1980      1981     1982      198       198        1985     1986       1987      198       1989     1990       199       199      J12-       194       19-       19        1997      1998
INFLOWS
Proposed TERD loan 'La                  181.95   199.55   182.18h  172.39   187.70
Loan and Interest Collection £
Principal                              0         0         o.64      4.87    12.73    46.20o   85.12   113.63   145.28   177.34   185.40   188.22   189.02   190.25   185.71   152.38   108.39                  82.09    40.36
Interest                              28.72    64.90    97.95   129.36   162.28   161.37   157,2   150.4    140.7    128.04   1-12.69    96.25    80.46    614.46    48.29                  32.67    19.29       9.87       3.29 
Total inflows                           210.67   268.45   280.13   306.62   3~62.67   207.5i7   242.54   264.03   286.08   905.98   298.09   284.47   269.48   254.71   233.88   185.01   137.68    91. 96    44.25
OUTFLOWS
Loans to subborrowers                   944.57   425.92   376.77   375.04   386.30
Financial expenses
Cooituent fee i                        6.99      5.56      4.07      2.70      i.41
Interest to TEED                      i8 1.4o    90.09    48.49    58.03    72.00    70.28    6s.55    64.oS    59.32    54.38    48.79    43.20    36.97    30.90    23.68    15.90                   9.67      4.9;.     1.72
Repayment to IBRD £4.                     0         0         0         9.90    21.58    35.29    47.10    59.10    63.29    67.29    72.43            77.38    82.91    88.62    94.90    78.72    59.10    40.5!'.   21.76 
Administration of loans £                 1.72       9.85     5.73      7.59      9.846     9).24     8.83      8.241    7.50       6.6i      5.69      4.75       3.80      2.85      1.91      i.i4      o.58      0.19      0
Total outflows                          367.62   464.82   431.06   453.26   490.75   114.81   121.48   191j.99,  130.11  '128,28   126.91   125.33   129.68   115.92   120.45    95.76    69.35    45.67    29.48
Surplus (Deficit) of Year j7           (156.95) (200.7) (150.93) (146.64) (128.08)   92.76   121.06   132.64   155.93   176.1    171.18 igiiis8    195.79 45.                  11357    .39    89. 25    68.39    46.29    20.77
Cumuative balance                      (15.5)(57.32) (508.25) (651.89) (792.97) (690.21) (569.15) (436.51) (280.58) (1ot. 48)   66.7    225.88   371.64   507.43   620.82   710. 07   77O. 4                       824.69)  84r,n46
7']  All figures in nominal terms.
ft2Figures do not show lag of 1 quarter between ZR's making of leans cod claiming of reimbursments from TEED.
3Collection of ZB loans from  aubborrowers assuming the following terms:
Type of loan                   interest rate (2)   Term  (years)   Grace period (years)
To SVIZ-Sava sod SIZ                          7                  13                   5
TosOVP                                        7                   8                   3
To individual sect. for equipment             7.2                 5                   2
To individual sect, for other                 7.2                10                   3                                                                                                                                        m
To social sector for equipment                9.0                10                   30~
To social sector for other                    9.0                15                   3
/4  3/4 of 1% on undisbursed portion of IBED loan.
/5  Interest rate of 7.9%, term  of 15 years, sod grace period of 3 years.
761 Assume cost of 1/22 of balance of outstanding lents to subborrowers for administration of project leans.
77  Includes ZB's contribution to project financing.



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ACCORDING TO QUALIFICATION IN THE SAVA RIVER AUTHORITY
AS OF JUNE 30, 1978
Qualification                 BOAL    BOAL        BOAL      BOAL      BOAL      BOAL    BOAL        BOAL      BOAL       BOAL      Common    Total
Karlovac  Kutina  Novska    Sisak   Sl.Brod  Zagreb   Projekts D. Selo  Perivoj  Hidroput   services
1                         2         3        4          5         6         7         8         9        lo        11           12        13
M.Sc.                           -        1         -         -          -         1         3                                          1          6
B.Sc. ,B.A.
- civil engineers              lo        5         3         7         lo       12        18          2         -         4          27          98
-survey engineers               2        -         1         1         -         1          1         1         -         -            2          9
-machine engineers              -        1         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         3            -          4
-forestry engineers             1        -         -         1           1        -         1         -         1                      4          9
-agronomists                    -        -         -         -                   -         2          -         4                      5         11
-economists                     2        3         1         2           1        1         -         1         2         4            5         22
-lawyers                        2        1         -         1           1       2          -         1         1         2            4         15
-others                         2        -         -         1           1       2          1         -         1         2            6         16
Subtotal                      19       11         5         13         14       19        26         5         9        15           54        19o
Intermediate Vocational
Training
- civil eng.technicians        17        7         4         7         14       15         16         4         _         6          14         104
-survey technicians             4        2         2         2           3       3         lo         4         -         -           1          31
- machin.and electr.
technicians                   1        2         -         1          2        4         -          -         -        15          2           27
- economic technicians          3        5         4         7          lo      14          4         4         3         8          12          74
-others                         6        3         2        13           8        4         2         4         2         2           9          55
jubtotal                      31       19        12         30         37       40        32        16         5        31          38         291
Support Staff
Trained                         3        4         2         1         17       14         5          5         3        15         19           88
Nighly skilled workers          4       20        26         1         21       12          -         1         3        59           2         149         ,  x
Skilled workers                60       72        26       107         207     171          1        49        11       177          12         893
Semi-skilled and non-skilled
workers                      72       84         8       117        115      194          -        33        36       118          16         793
Subtotal                      139      180        62       226         360     391          6        88        53       369          49       1,923
GRAND TOTAIL                  189      210        79       269        411      450         64       109        67       415         141        2404



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures L
(MiLLion Dollars)
Tact  Xa 90,~18                                                                                        983                    1984
% Fix   ota   l're8- L al  l  Totl a   Fe        =oca   2!t12oEd n 8f   Total                 Local  Total  Foreign  Local  TotalForeign  Local
PROJECT WORKS
TNTEREcrC'FOR  1RAINS               24   1.94   0.47    1.47   0.11   0.03   0.08   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.17   0,04   0.13   1.05   0.25    0.00   0.61    o 0.15   0.46
DRAINAGE CANALS                     34  22.92   7,79  15.13   4.38   1.49   2.89   5.79    1.97   3.82    4,07   1.38   2.69   4.50    1.53   2.97   4.18    1.42    2.76
PUMPING STATIONS                    44   9.50   4.18   5.32   2.39    1.05   1.34   2.90    1.31    1.67    1.98   0.S7   1.11    1.03   0.45    0.58   1.12   0.49   0.63
BRIDGES,CULVERTS,OTHER   2          32   3.34    1.07   2.27   0.71   0.23   0.48   0.69    0.22   0.47    0.63   0.20   0.43   0.77   0.25   0.52   0.54   0.17    0.37
SUBTOTAL                        36  37.70  13.51  24,19   7.59   2.79   4.80   9.46   3. 50   5.96    6.85   2.50    4.35   7.35   2.48    4.17   6.45    2.23    4.22
ON--FARM DEVELOPMENT
KOMBINA7S(CREDITJ
LAND CLEARING                       26   1.34   0.35   0.99   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.38   0.10   0,28              0.51    0.13   0.3B   0.23    0.06    0.17   0.22   0.06    0.16
LAND LEVELLZNG                      36   2.06   1.03   1.83   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.93   0.33   0.60              1,11   0,40   0.71   0.35   0.13    0.22   0.47   0.17   0.30
BSBSURFACE DRAINS /j                39  12.44   4.85   7.59    1.38   0.54   0.84   2.76    1.08   1.68            2.76   1,08   1,68   2.77    1.08    1.69   2.77    1.09   1.69
FARM ROADS                          35   3.47   1.21   2.26   0.34   0.12   0.22   0.66   0.23   0.43              0.85   0.30   0.55   0.88   0.31    0.57   0,74   0.26   0.48
FARMYARDS                           41   1.74   0.71    1.03   0.17   0.07   0.10   0.33   0.14   0.19             0.43   0.10   0.25   0.44    0.18    0.26   0.37   0.15   0.22
SUBTOTAL                        37  21.85   8.16  13.69   1.89   0.73   1.16   5.06    1.88   3.18             5.66    2.08   3.5B   4.67    1.75    2.92   4.57    1.72   2.85
LOU I F'MENT
DRAINLAYERS                         73   1.36   0.99   0.37   0.45   0.33   0.12   0.91   0.66   0.25              0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
DRAGLINES                           73   3.50   2.55   0.95   3.50   2.55   0.95   0.00   0.00   0.00              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
06M                                 73   1.30   O.5   0.35   0.50   0.37   0.14   0.40   0.29   0.11              0.40   0.29   0.11    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.(0   0.00
FARM MACHINERY
KOMBINATS(CREDIT)                  66  11.10   7.33   3.77   0.71    0.47   0.24   2.12    1.40   0.72            2.69    1.78   0.91    2.19    1.45    0.74    3.39   2.24    1.15
VEHICLES
EXTENSION                          73   0.16   0.12   0.04   0.16   0.12   0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
APPLIED INVESTIGATIONS             73   0.02   0.01    0.01    0.02   0.01   0.01    0.00   0.00   0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
ADMINISTRATION                     73   0.05   0.04   0.01   0.05   0.04   0.01   0.00   0,00   0.00              0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0,00   0.00   0.00
MONIrORING                         73   0.03   0.02   0.01    0.03   0.02   0.01    0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0,00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   u
OFFICE AND PROFESSIONAL
EfXTENSION                         40   0.02   0.01    0.01    0.02   0.01    0.01    0.00    1.00   0.00         0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
APPLIED INVESTIGATIONS             40   0.03   0.01   0.02   0.03   0.01    0.02   0.(0   0.00   0.(0             0.00   0,00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
ADMINISTRATION                     40   0.05   0.02   0.03   0.05   0.02   0.03   0.00   0,00   0.00              0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
MUNITORING                         40   0.01   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.0(   0.01    0.00   0.00   0.00             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
SLUBO'T1AL                      68  17.63  12.06   5.57   5.53   3.95   1.58   3.43   2.36    1.07             3.09   2.07    1.02    2.19    1.45    0.74   3.39   2.24    1.15
PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT /4             29   5.66   1.64   4.02    1.13   0.33   0.80    1.13   0.33   0.80             1.13   0.33   0.80   1.13    0.33   0.80    1.13   0.33   0.80
MANAC'MNT & IECH. SERVICES
LAND CONSOLIDATION /                13   3.05   0.40   2.65   0.25   0.03   0.22    1.38   0.18    1.20            0.42   0.05   0.37   0.70   0.09   0.61    0.30   0.04   0.26
TECHNICAL DESIGN /5                 13   3.89   0.51    3.38    1.35   0.18   1.17   0.94   0.12   0.82            0.65   0.08   0.57   0.69   0.09   0.60    0.26   0.03    0.23
EXIENSION  j                        10   2.26   0.23   2.03   0.27   0.03   0.24   0.52   0.05   0.47              0.49   0.05   0.44    0.49   0.05   0.44    0.49   0.05   0.44
APPLIED INVESTIGATIONS  ,           30   0.52   0.16   0.36   0.18   0.05   0.13   0.11   0.03   0.0(    0.07   0.02   0.05   0.07    0.02   0.05   0,07   0.02   0.05
PROJEC1 MONIrORING  6               10   0.43   0.04   0.39   0.05   0.01    0.08   0.09   0.01    0.08            0.09   0.01    0.00   0.10   0.01    0.09   0.10   0.01    0.09
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION L6            7   1.98   0.14   1.84   0.22   0.02   0.20   0.44   0.03   0.41              0.44   0,03   0.41    0.44    0.03    0.41    0.44   0.03   0.41
SUBT0TAL                        12  12.13   1.46  10.66   2.32   0.31    2.01    3.48   0.43   3.06            2.16   0.25    1.91    2.49   0.29   2.20    1.66   0.18   1.40
TOTAL BASE COST                      39  94.97  36.83   58.14  18.46   8.n    10.35  22.57   8.49   14.o8    18.90   7.23   11.67  17.84   6.30   fL.53  17.21               6.70  10.50
PHYSICAL CONFINGENCIES /7            39   9.55    3.76    5.79   1.80   0.81    1.00   2.28   0.87    1.41         1.91   0.74      1.17   1.81    o.65    1.16   1.75       o.69    1.05
pUICE CO1 INGENCICES /               37  28.12  10.52   17.6    2.49   1.06    1.42    4.85   1.79    3.o6          5.62    2.1U    3.51    6.93    2.41    4.53   8.22      3.14    5.10
101TAL COST WITH CONTINGENCIES       39 132.64  51.11   81.53  22.75   9.98   12.77  29.70  11.15   18.55    26.Ji3  io.08   16. 35  26.58   9.36    17.22   27.18   10.53   16 65
1E Ieee price estimates are in April 1979 prices.
/2  Other includes $350,000 in 1980 for construction of housing unit for extension.
3 Cost figure includes operating costs only. Capital cost of drain layers is included under equipmnt.
Approximate Ly 11,% *rould be for equipment.
5 Service charges paid for detailed project design and administration of land consolidation.
Includes salaries, vehicle operating costs, office overheads, overseas training and consultants. Capital items included under "On-farm Development" or "Equipment".
7  Physical contingencies computed on the basis or 10% for all items except 15% for subsurface drains and 0% for credit to private sector.
Price contingencies computed on the basis of the following assuneptions:
- Project years are calendar years and expenditures occur uniformly throughout years.
- Annual inflation for equipment is 10% from April 1979 to the end of 1979, 7% in 1980 and 6% thereafter.
_ Annual inflation fcr all ether items is 11% from April 1979 to the end of 1979, 8% in 1980 and 7% thereafter.
A,.                                                                                                                         



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements.
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                          in the Quarter (US$ Million)
FY80
June 30, 1980                                                  2.5
FY81
September 30, 1980                                             5.0
December 31, 1980                                              7.5
March 31, 1981                                                10.0
June 30, 1981                                                 12.5
FY82
September 30, 1981                                            15.5
December 31, 1981                                             19.0
March 31, 1982                                                21.5
June 30, 1982                                                 24.0
FY83
September 30, 1982                                            26.0
December 31, 1982                                             29.0
March 31, 1983                                                31.5
June 30, 1983                                                 33.5
FY84
September 30, 1983                                            36.0
December 31, 1983                                             38.0
March 31, 1984                                                41.0
June 30, 1984                                                 43.5
FY85
September 30, 1984                                            46.0
December 31, 1984                                             49.0
March 31, 1985                                                51.0
/1 Disbursement projections based on uniform phasing of expenditures in
calendar years. A lag of one quarter has been allowed in incurring
of expenditures and claiming of reimbursement from the Bank. Figures
have been rounded to the nearest 0.5 million US$.
December 1978



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Operation and Maintenance Equipment List
Number
Universal tractor mower                                  25
Tractor sprayer                                           4
Floating mower                                            1
Straddle excavator                                        5
High pressure pipe drain cleaner,
nozzles, etc.                                         4
Automatic rake-cleaner for pump
intake                                                7
Hydraulic backhoe                                         2
Vehicles
Four-wheel drive cars                                     6
Other cars                                              33



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial and Economic Prices of Project Benefits
Financial                                 Economic
Dinars/ton    US$/ton   US$ per head   Dinars/ton    US$/ton   US$/head
Grains
Wheat 1/                   ) ex-farm or village,  2,700-2,800   150-156                         3,580          201
Maize 2/                   ) at harvest                2,500         139                        2,720          151
Barley/Other cereals 3/   ) moisture 14%              2,400          133                        2,430          135
Oilseed rape 4/              ) dried at ex-farm         6,100          339                        5,620          312
Vegetables
Potatoes 5/                )                           2,500         139                        2,500          139                    1
°'ther vegetai-ies  /      ) ex-farm                  3,000          167                        3,000          167
Meat 7/
Cattle
Cull cow (550 kg)        )                         16,000          889        489            15,050          836      460
Calf (110 kg) - Male    )                          42,000        2,333        257           (28,200       (1.567      172
- Female  )                          35,000       1,944        214           (             (
Fat beast (440 kg)       ) liveweight price ex-   25,000         1,390        612            23,500        1,306      575
) farm or at village
) collection center
Pigs 8/
Cull sow (150 kg)        )                         17,000          944        142            15,450          858      129
Weaner (25 kg)           )                         29,000        1,611         40            26,370        1,465        37
Fat pig (100 kg)         )                         24,000        1,333        133            21,820        1,212      121
OQ
Poultry meat 9/            )                         22,000        1,222        n/a            22,000        1,222      n/a           X
Milk 10/                     ) 3.65% butterfat, ex-
) village collection                                                                            10/
) center                  4.3 dine/litet 23.9 US$/litor         3.36dins/liter  18.7 US$/liter-
Eggs 11/                     ) hen's eggs, ex-farm    1.2 each          6.7 cents each        1.2 each          6.7 cents each-"/
Footnotes 1/ to 11/ on following pages.



54                          ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 2
Footnotes:
1/ Import parity price: i.e. World Bank Commodities Division forecast for
1990, US$174/ton, plus transport, Thunder Bay to Rijeka, US$24/ton, plus
port charges and transport Rijeka to Zagreb US$8 per ton, less local
assembly transport US$5/ton - equals US$201/ton.
2/ Export parity price: i.e. World Bank Commodities Division Projection for
1990, US$150/ton, plus transport, Gulf ports to Rotterdam US$6/ton, less
local assembly transport US$5/ton - equals US$151/ton assuming maize free
on rail Zagreb would be equally valuable to Southern and Central European
markets as maize f.o.b. Northern European ports.
3/ On basis of value to animal feeds industry i.e. 90% valt.e of maize at
Zagreb less local assembly costs = US$156 x 0.9 - US$5 = US$135.
4/ Import parity price: World Bank Commodities Division projections for 1990,
US$305 adjusted for higher freight, Canada to Rijeka than Canada to Rotterdam,
say US$4/ton, plus port charges and transport to Zagreb US$8/ton. Free at
Zagreb factory price US$317/ton, less US$5 for local assembly - farm gate
price US$312/ton.
5/ Not traded - Local price which is equivalent to US Cents 6.3 per lb (in
line with US prices) taken.
6/  Not traded - local prices taken.
7/ Export parity price: Fat beasts which give high quality chilled beef are
valued at export prices, and the economic price per kilo for cull cows
and calves is derived from the economic price of fat beasts, plus a veal
premium in the case of calves, and less a quality discount related to the
financial price discount for cows. Fat beasts: Actual export prices include
auality sides (280 kg dead carcass weight dcw) exported to Greece Nay 1978,
IUS$1,850 and June 1978, US$2,150 per ton compensated quarters f.o.b. Rijeka.
Other prices quoted to the mission for carcass beef exports, destination
unknown, October 1978 were US$1,850 and US$1,900 per ton f.o.b. dcw. Live
steers for finishing (280 kg liveweight) are exported to Italy at US$1,500
per ton l.w. Taking the lower of these figures, US$1,850 as the f.o.b. price,
the free at Zagreb price (after adjusting for chilled meat transport to the
Port) would be US$1,830. With chilled carcasses, 5th quarter value would
normally equal processing costs (including transport to slaughterhouse).
Therefore "at village" liveweight price would be US$1,830 multiplied by
the kill out 56% which equals US$1,025 per ton for 1978. 1990 figures are
projected to rise 27% for Argentina/Australian beef - rise considered same
for quality beef. This gives beef prices US$1,306 ex-farm (US$2,331
ex-slaughterhouse dcw). This is about 4% below the real average price
1968-1978. As the cost of concentrate feeds measured by an index 80% maize,
20% soya meal is projected to rise 40% over the same period (1978-1990),
this projection is reasonable from a cost plus viewpoint. Calves: Valued
at 20% above beef price - that is the export premium for veal to give
US$1,567 per ton l.w. Cull cows: Valued at same discount to fat beast
price as on domestic market, i.e. 36% below in liveweight terms to give
US$836 per ton l.w.



55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 3
Footnotes (con'd)
8/ Fat pig: Economic price considered to be the same as for Romania, adjusted
upwards by US$40 per ton of product sold because of lower land transport
costs to Italy, Spain, and Greece. This gives a price of US$1,040 per
ton l.w. ex-farm for 1971-1977 expressed in 1978 dollar terms. Application
of 16½<% increase in value due to corresponding increase in the economic
price of feeds (index comprising 20% soya: 80% maize) would give US$1,212
per ton l.w. for 1990 economic price.
Sow:  Taken at same ratio with fat pig as in financial prices, e.g. US$944
to US$1,333 gives US$858/ton l.w.
Weaner: Taken at same ratio to fat pig price as with the financial price,
i.e. about 20% higher. This gives weaner value of US$1,465 per ton l.w.
9/ Poultry meat: Not traded - valued at 92% of pigmeat price as in financial
prices - US$1,111 per ton l.w.
10/  Milk:  Import parity price of constituent parts plus cost of reconstitu-
tion for proportion dried (5%) same value for proportion made into yoghurt
and other manufactured products (27%), import parity price of constituent
parts plus cost of reconstitution plus 50% consumer preference premium
for local fresh sales (48%) and local price for on-farm consumption and
proportion made into local cheese (20%). That is 32% at Dinar 2.4, 48%
at Dinar 3.6 and 20% at Dinar 4.3. Average Dinar 3.36 equals US Cents 18.7.
11/ Eggs: Not traded - Valued at domestic price of US Cents 6.7 per egg.
This is about 15% above the December 1968 US wholesale price.



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Farm Model (Private Sector): 5 ha
Cash Flows (Dinars) /
Without                                                              Year
Project      1        2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10        11-40       41
Cash inflow
Revenues /2                       72,405   67,493   86,706   131,886   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   158,610
Long-term loans /3
IBRD funds /4                             16,168      0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Local funds /5                            28,432      0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Farmer's equityL6                    _      11,150      0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Subtotal                          72,405  123,243   86,706   131,886   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   140,510   158,610
Cash outflow
Investments /7                              55,750      0          0          0          0          0         2,700      5,575      8,360      8,360      8,360      8,360
Operating costs /8                26,460   31,416   52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996    52,996
Land tax /9                         5,500    5,500    5,500       5,500      9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500      9,500
Drainage charge /10                 1,350     0         0          0         2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700      2,700
Project works charge /11                     5,000    5,000        0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
erinc epal /10                                       0         0,920      b,920      0,920      o,yz-      0,y20                                                             >
Interest                                 1,6o6    3,211       3,211      2,569      1,927      1,284        642                                                             a
Subtotal                          33,310   99,272   66,707    70,627    76,685    76,o43    75,200    77,458    70,771    73,556    73,556    73,556    73,556
Farm family net benefit              39,095   23,971   19,999    61,259    63,825    64,467    65,310    63,052    69,739    66,954    66,954    66,954    85,0514
Less:  Income without project                  39,095   39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095    39,095
Incremental benefits to farmer's
own equity                                 -15.124  -19,096    22,164    24,730    25,372    26,215    23,957    30,644    27,059    27,059    27,059    45,959
FRR =  57,%
/1  October 1978 prices except for debt service and project charge figures which are nominal.
/2  Sale and home consumption of crops and livestock and income from machine contracting.
/3  80% of Year I investments. sAissume 5,000 dinars for machinery, 39,600 dinars for other investments).  Reinvestments are assumed
to be self financed.
/4  29% of  Year 1 investments   is F/X and financed through IBRD funds.
/5  51% of Year I inve6tment6.
76  20% of Year 1 investments.
/7  Assume reinvestments start in Year 7 as follows:  Year 7:  5% of original investment, Year 8:  107, Years 9-41:  15%.
/8  Includes seeds, fertilizers, sprays, machinery operating costs, protein balancer, milk powder, calf starter, calf meal, veterinary and A.I.,
maintenance and farm electricity, and miscellaneous.
/9  Cadastral land tax.  Assumed to increase in proportion to increase in revenue less operating costs as a result of improvement of land
with project starting in Year 4.
/10  It is assumed that a drainage charge will not be assessed for the first 3 years after project implementation.  It is also assumed that
the drainage charge will increase to cover drainage infrastructure 04M costs of $30/ha starting in lear 4.
/11  2,000 dinars/ha paid in four equal installments over the first two years to the municipality for partial coverage of project costs.
712   It is assumed that combined IBRD and ZB funds are lent at 7.2% for 7 years including a grace period of two years for Drincial payments.
Interest during the grace period is paid as it falls due.
December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Social Sector Cash Flows
Generated from Crop Production Operations
(Million Dollars) 2!
Project works period
Without                                                                          Y ear
Project       1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8      9      10     11      12      13     14      15     16      17      18      19     20      21-40
Cash inflow
Revenues /2                               1.76       1.90   2.50   3.74   6.24   9.63  11.47  13.07  13.41  13.59  13.59   13.59 13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59    13.59
Long-term loans
I!3RD funds  03                                    O      1.27   3.50   4.06   3.35   3.87    0          0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0         0
ZB funds /4                                        1.2    0.89   2.46   2.85   2.35   2.72    0          0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0         0
Social Sector equity L                              0.3    0.55   1.48   1.72   1.42   1.65    0          0       0 °            0       0      0       0       0      0       0 °            0       0         0
Subtotal                                  1.76      3.4    5.21  11.18  14.87  16.75  19.71  13.07  13.411 13.59  13.59  13.59  13.59  13. 59             9  13.59   3.59  131.59  13.59.59.59  I3              359
Cash outflow
Inrvestments 1-AR                                    1.5    2.71   7.44   8.63   7.22   8.24   0.57   1.14   1.70   1.70   1.70   1.70   1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7                  1.7
Operating costs /Z                        2.07       2.17   2.61   3.21   4.29   5.62   6.15   6.61   6.64   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66   6.66                 6.66
Drainage charge A                         0.17       0.19   0.19    .20   0.21   0.21   0.21   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44   D.44   0.44   0.44   0.44                 0.44
Project charge  9                                     .51    .62    .32    .46    .34    .18    .08    0          0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0         0
Taxes L12                                  o          0      0      0.04   0.18   0.41   0.53   0.65   o.67   o.6y   0.66   o.67   o.68   0.69   0.7l1   D.69   o.69   o.69   o.69   o.69   o.69               o.69
Debt service LU.
Principal                                          0      0       0      0      0.10   0.52   1.05   1.75   2.66   3.01   3.33   3.23   2.92   2.54   2.23   1.62   1.48   1.09   o.67   0.32                0
Interest                                         0.05   0.20   0.57   1.15   1.72   2.26   2.51   2.42   2.26   2.02   1.75   1.45   1.16   0.90   o.67   0.47   0.32   0.19   0.09   0.03                   0
Subtotal                                  2.24      4.52   6.33  11.78  14.92  15.52  18.1   11.91  13.06  14.38  14.49  14.55  14.15  13.57  12.95  12.38  11.58  11.29  10.77  10.25   9.84                  9.49
Social Sector net benefit Ll              -o.48      -1.12  -1.12  -o.6   -0.05   1.23   1.61   1.16   0.35  -o.79  -0.9   -0.96  -o.56   0.02   o.64   1.21   2.01   2.3    2.82   3.34   3.75                 L.1
Cash flow for all resources used L.U                  -2.57  -3.63  -7.47  -7.53  -4.07  -3.84   4.72   4.52   4.12   4.13   4.12   4.11   4.10   4,0s   4.10   4.10   4.1o   4.10   4.1o   4,1o                 4.io
FRR = 10,9Y
/   October 1978 prices except for debt service and project charge figures which are nominal.
/ Sale of craps.
i   47% of project investments (i.e. F/X component).  Note that Bank financing does not cover Year I (calendar year 1979).
A  33% of project investments.
20% of project investments.  Reinvestments starting in Year 7 assumed to be self-financed.                                                                                                                            b 1
/   On-farm development and farm machinery credit including physical contingencies.
/7  Includes seeds, fertilizers, sprays, drying and spraying service, machinery, labor, and overhead costs.
A  It is assumed that the current yearly drainage charge of $15/ha will be increased to cover yearly drainage infrastructure O+N costs of 930/ha as of the completion of project works (Year 7).                          i u
2,000 dinars/ha paid over two years for newly drained land starting in the year of drainage for partial coverage of project costs.                                                                                    w
/10 Computed as follows:
Taxes = Nlax   0; 13% (Revenues - Operating costs + Direct labor costs - Drainage charge - Depreciation)
Depreciation has been computed using the straight line method over 10 years for machinery and using t.5s per year over the lifetime of the project for other investments.  Note that the 13%
tax rate includes a 0.0765% component for the Croatia water interest union (SVIZ).
L/1  Repayment terms assumed:  9% combined ZB and IBRD funds; 10 years with 3 year grace period for machinery credit; 15 years with 5 year grace period for other credit; interest paid as it falls
due during the grace period; loans disbursed uniformly throughout the year. Figures not deflated to account for inflation.
/12 Cash inflow less cash outflow.
Lu Revenues less operating costs less charges less taxes less investments.
December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Phasing of Drainage (hectares)
Before
Project      1979           1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
Social Sector 
Basic infrastructure
Cernec                                         500 /1      400             930      2,670       2,660        -           -
Zelina                                        -            -              -           -           230         460         460
Lonje                                         -            -              -           -           460         820         820
Cesma I                                       -            -              140         280         270         -           -
Cesma II                                       -           -               -          -            90         190         180
Sisak                                          -           -              430         860         860         -           -
Kutina                                         -            600            -          -           -           -           -
Total completed in year /2                       500 /1    1,000          1,500       3,800       4,600       1,500       1,500                 1
Cumulative area with Basic inf.(Yr. end) (A)    500          1,500           3,000      6,800      11,400      12.900      14,500    14,500
of which pipe drains installed in year           -         1,000           1,300      2,500       2,500       2,500       2,500
Cumulative pipe drained area (Yr. end)             -         1,000           2,300      4,800       7,300       9,800      12,300    12,300
Undrained land in Social Sector (Yr. end) (B)10,900          11,000          9,900      6,500       2,300       1.200         -
Total area in Social Sector /1 (A + B)          11,400      12,500          12,900     13,300      13,700      14,100      14,500    14,500
Private Sector
Area drained in Year /2                          -            100          3,300      5,900       8,100       6,000       6,100
Cumulative area drained (Yr. end) (C)            -            100         3,400       9,300      17,400      23,400      29,500    29,500
Undrained land in Priv.Sector (Yr.end) (D) 32,600         31,400         27,700      21,400      12,900       6,500         -
Total land in Private Sector (C + D)            32,600      31,500          31,100     30,700      30,300      29,900      29,500    29,500   -
TOTAL LAND IN PROJECT (A + B + C + D)           44,000      44,000         44,000      44,000      44,000      44,000      44,000    44,000   >
/1 Pilot farm.
/2 Totals rounded to nearest 100 ha.
December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Drained Area by Catchment at Full Project Development
Cernec     Zelina      Lonje      Cesma I      Cesma II       Sisak     Kutina      Total
-------------------------------------(ha)------------------------------------
Social Sector
Basic network and new subsurface         6,000       1,000       2,000       600          400         1,720         580    12,300
Basic network only                       1,160 /I      150         300        90           60           420          20      2,200
Total Social Sector                      7,160       1,150       2,300       690          460         2,140         600    14,500
Private Sector
Basic network                            7,440       5,550       8,100    2,510        1,440          2,880       1,730    29,650
TOTAL DRAINED AREA                        14,600       6,700      10,400    3,200         1,900         5,020       2,330    44,150
Phasing of Construction of Basic                                                                                                    Total Gum.!2
Network (ha comp. in year)
Before project (pilot farm)                500         _          _          _            _             _           _          500      500
Works prior to Year 1                      400         -          -          -            -             -           700      1,100   1,600
Year 1                                   2,420         -          -          640          _           1,000         810      4,800   6,400
Year 2                                   5,640         -          -        1,280          -           2,010         820      9,700  16,100
Year 3                                   5,640       1,340       2,080    1,280           380         2,010         -       12,700  28,800
Year 4                                     -         2,680       4,160       -            760           -           -        7,600  36,400
Year 5                                     -         2,680       4,160       -            760           -           -        7,600  44,000
TOTAL DRAINED AREA                        14,600       6,700      10,400    3,200         1,900         5,020       2,330    44,000 /2
/1  Includes pilot farm, 500 ha.
/2  Total by catchment of 44,150 rounded to 44 000,
December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Phasing of Cropped Area (ha)
Without                                    Year
Proj ect    1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8      9-40
PRiIVATE SEC:TORfi
WHREAT                       3100    3000    3000    3300    4000    4800    5500    6200    6200    6200
MAIZE                       8900    8600    8500    8800         9300   10300    10800   11600   11600   11600
OTHER CEREALS                 800      800      800      700      500      300      100        0        0        0
R APE SE:E:ED                   0        0        0      100      300      600      800    1000    1000    1000
FOlATOES                     1500    1400    1400    1400    1400    1500    1500    1.500    1500    1500
VEGETAEBLES                   600      600      600      600      600      600      600      600      600      600 o
MAIZE SILAGE                    0        0        0      100      300      600      800     1000    1000      1000
OTHER FORAGE                 1200    1200    1100    1000         800      500      200        0        0        0
SECONDi CROP FORAGE'            0        0        0      300      800    1500    2000    2500    2500    2500
IMPROVED GRASS              2900    2800    2800    3200    4100    5200    6100    7000    7000    7000
FALLOW                        900      900      900      800      600      300      200        0        0        0
PERMANENT GRASS             12100   11600   11500   10100    7800    4600    2300              0        0        0
ORCHARDS                      600      600      600      600      600      600      600      600      600      600
SlJBTOTAL                  32600   31500   31200   30700   30300   29900   29500   29500   29500   29500
SOCIAL SECTOR
WHEAT                         800      900    1400    2400    4200    6100    6300    6200    6000    5700
MAIZE                        1700    1900    2100    2600    3400    4500    5100    5600    5600    5700
OTHER CEREALS                 300      300      300      300      200      100        0        0        0        0
RAPE SEED,                    100      100      200      300      600    1200    1700    2400    2600    2800
MAIZE' SILAGE                 300      300      300      300      300      300      300      300      300      300
FALLOW                        600      700      600      500      400      100      100        0        0        0
FPERMANENT GRASS             7600    8300    7900    6900    4600    1900    1000              0        0         0 I
SUBTOTAL                    11400   12500    12800   13300   13700   14200   14500   14500   14500   14500j



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Phasing of Crop Production (tons)
Without                                    Year
Project      1        2        3       4         5        6        7        8      9-40
F'RIVATE SECTOR
WHEAT                        8700(   8400    8200    9600   :1.2700   17700   22000   26800   27900   28500
MAIZE                       31100   30.100   29200   31.700   37800   48400   57600   68600   71600   73100
OTHER CEREALS                1500    1500    1400    1200         900      500      '200        0        0         0
RAPE SEED                       0        0        0      200      700     1300    1800    2300        2400    2500
PO TATOES                   12000   11600   11200   11000   110OO   11900   12700   14100   14700   15000
VEGETAB L ES                 5400    5200    5000    4900    4900    5300    5600    6200    6500    6600
MA IZE S:IL A GCE               0        0        0    1600    4400    8700   12200   15800   16500   16800
OTHER FORAGE                14400   13900   13400   11500    8600    5000    2200               0        0         0
SECOND CROP FORAGE              0        0      100    1800    5300   10300   14500   18600   19600   20000
IMPROVED GRASS              23200   22400   21800   25300   33000   45500   56300   68300   71.300   72800
FAL[OW                          00                0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0
PERMANENT GRASS             48400   46700   45000   38800   28800   16800    7200               0        0         0
ORCHARDS                     4200    4100    3900    3800    3600    3600    3700    3900    4100              4200
SOCIAL SECIOR
WHEAT                        3000     3200    5500   10300   18800   29200   31900   32900   32300   31300
MAIZE                        8200    8800   10300   13300   19900   29100   35000   40500   41800   42700
OTHER CEREALS                 700      800      700      600      400       200      100        0        0         0
RAPE SEED                     200      200      400      700    1600    3200    5000    7100          7800    8400
MAIZE SILAGE                 5000    5400    5300    5000    4700    4600    4800    5000             5a00      5000
FALLOW                          00                0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0
F'ERMANENT GRASS            30400   32800   30700   25500   16000    6600    3200               0        0         0
-'D a



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Livestock Phasing
Before                                               Year
Cattle                             Project                1               2         3         4         5         6        7         8
Cattle numbers & sales
Numbers
Milk cows (at start of year)        14,500          14,500          14,400   14,300   14,200   14,100   14,000   14,000   14,000
Pregnant heifers                     2,000           2,000           2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Repl. heifers 4-16 months            2,900           2,880            2,860    2,840    2,820    2,800    2,800    2,800    2,800
Other cattle 4-16 months (Yr.end) 1,200              1,570           2,540    3,460    4,380    5,300    6,200    7,200    7,200
Calves born in year & surviving  10,450             10,450          10,400   10,300   10,200   10,100   10,000   10,000   10,000
Sales
Calves sold at 110 kg                6,350           6,000           5,000    4,000    3,000    2,000    1,000          nil       nil
Steers (440 kg LW) sold              1,200           1,200           1,570    2,540    3,460    4,380    5,300    6,200    7,200
Replacement heifers produced         2,900           2,900            2,880    2,860    2,840    2,820    2,800    2,800    2,800
Cull cows sold (550 kg LW)           2,750           2,850           2,840    2,820    2,800    2,780    2,660    2,660    2,660
Milk sold  1/cow                     1,550           1,550            1,650    1,850    2,050    2,200    2,350    2,450    2,500
Milk sold (Million 1)                 22.5            22.5             23.8     26.5      29.1      31.0      32.9      34.3      35.0
Pigs
Sow numbers - beginning year             6,000           6,000            6,000    6,000    7,000    8,000    9,000    9,000    9,000
Pigs/sow/year                              9                9               92       10        10½       11        11½       12        12
Pigs born                             54,000          54,000           57,000   60,000   73,500   88,000  103,500  108,000  108,000
of which to be
- replacement gilts                  2,040           2,040           2,040    3,040    3,380    3,720    3,060    3,060    3,060
- 100 kg pigs                        6,940           6,940           7,500    9,000   18,000   30,000   46,000   50,000   50,000
- 25 kg pigs                        45,020          45,020          47,460   47,960   52,120   54,280   54,440   54,940   54,940
Sales or production in year
Cull sows                              1,980           1,980            1,980    1,980    2,310    2,640    2,970    2,970    2,970
100 kg pigs                            6,940           6,940            7,150    8,070   12,420   22,560   36,080   47.520   50,000
25 kg pigs                            45,020          45,020          46,970   47,860   51,290   53,850   54,410   54,840   54,940
Replacement gilts produced             2,040           2,040            2,040    3,040    3,380    3,720    3,060    3,060    3,060
Poultry
Laying hens
Number                            110,000          110,000         110,000  110,000  110,000  110,000  110,000  110,000  110,000
Eggs produced (Million)              13.2            13.2            13.5      13.9      14.5      15.2      15.8      16.3      16.5
Other poultry
Number                              65,000          65,000          65,000   65,000   65,000   65,000   65,000   65,000   65,000
Tons gained                            820             820             833       856       872       898       924       937       950
Dcb  z
December 1978 



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 19
APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Inerenental Costs /1
(Million Dollars)
Total Costs                                   Year
Without Project      1      2      3       4      5      6      7      8      9-40
Social Sector
Crops
- Seeds                             0.15           0,.O    o.o6   0.14   0.28   0.45   0.48   0.50   o.49    0.47
- Fertilizers                       0.29           0.03   0.10   0.23   o.48   0.79   0.91   1.02   1.03    1.04
- Sprays                            0.09          0.01   0.03   0.06   0.12   0.20   0.25   0.30   0.31    0.32
- Drying and spraying service       0.13          0.01   0.05   0.13   0.29   o.48   0.57   o.65   o.66    o.67
- Variable machinery                0.49           0.05   0.10   0.18   0.31   0.48   0.55   o.60   O.60    0.60
- Direct labor                      0.29          0.03   0.05   0.08   0.13   0.19   0.22   0.24   0.24    0.24
- Overheads                         o.63          0.06   0.15   0.32   0.61   0.96   1.10   1.23   1.24    1.25
Subtotal                          2.07          0.20   0.54   1.14   2.22   3.55   4.o8   4.54   4.57    4.59
Private Sector
Crops
- Seeds                             1.74          -o.o6  -o.o8  -o.o4   0.04   0.17   0.26   0.36   0.36    o.36
- Pertilizers                       0.77          -0.03  -0.03   0.22   0.71   1.37   1.84   2.33   2.33    2.33
- Sprays                            0.14          0.00    0.00   O.o6   0.18   0.34   0.47   0.59   0.59    0.59
- Sundry direct items               0.13           0.00  -0.01   0.01   0.03   0.06   0.08   O.11   o.11    0.11
- Combine harvesting                0.32          -0.01  -0.01   0.02   0.09   0.18   0.24   0.32   0.32    0.32
- Drying                            0.00          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.02   0.03   0.03    0.03
- Direct macbinery                  1.16          -0.03  -0.05  -o.o4  -0.03  -0.01   0.02   0.07   0.07    0.07
- Family labor                      4.14          -o.io  -0.16  -0.13  -o.o6   0.07   0.21   0.39   0.39    0.39
Subtotal                          8.40          -0.23  -0.34   0.12   0.97   2.19   3.i4'  4.20   4.20    4.20
Livestock
- Calf starter/milk oovder          0.00           0.00    0.00   0.04   0.10   0.19   0.29   0.39   o.44    0.51
- Home-grown maize                  2.74           0.02   0.14   o.38   0.89   1.59   2.28   2.69   2.75    2.69
- Balancer               -          0.73           0.01   0.05   0.22   0.50   1.02   1.63   2.17   2.39    2.53
- Vet., Med., and A.I.              0.52           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.04   0.08   0.12   0.13   0.14    0.14
- Sundry direct items               0.14           0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01   0.03   o.OL   0.05   0.05    0.05
- Family labor                      7.93           0.01   0.01  -0.02   0.15   0.24   0.32   0.23   o.16    0.04
Subtotal                         12.06           o.o4   0.20   o.63   1.69   3.15   4.68   5.66   5.93    5.96
TOTAL                                22-53           o.ol  o.44   1.89   4.88   8.89  11.gO  14.40  14.70   14.75
/1  October 1978 financial prices.                                                            December 1978



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                                   Table 20
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Incremental Economic Benefits and Costs /1
(Million Dollars Equivalent) /2
Year
1       2        3        4        5         6       7        8       9-40    41
Benefits_
Social Sector
Crops /3                        0.16    0.88    2.38    5.35    9.30    11.29   12.95   13.25   13.38
Private Sector
Crops /4                       -0.33   -0.62    0.03    1.65    4.55         7.09   10.16   11.03   11.46
Livestock /5                   -0.01    0.39    1.46    3.05    5.18         7.60    9.66   10.69   10.69
Residuals /6                                                                            1.15                      14.40
Total Benefits                   -0.18    0.65    3.87   10.05   19.03    25.98   33.92   34.97   35.53   14.40
Costs
Operating
Social Sector
Crops /7                      0.20    0.54    1.15    2.27    3.63         4.17    4.64    4.66    4.68
Private Sector
Crops /8                     -0.19   -0.28    0.24    1.23    2.61         3.67    4.84    4.84    4.84
Livestock /9                  0.04    0.21    0.65    1.68    3.14         4.66    5.65    5.92    5.96
O-M, Ext. Banking /10                  0.11    0.34       .58    0.90      1.09    1.36    1.36    1.36
Investment /11
Project works                   1.85    6.19    8.10    5.86    6.29         5.52
Equipment                                4.66    2.00    2.46    1.74        2.69
On-farm development             1.23    2.10    4.44    4.95    4.10         4.02
Build.+Mach.+Livest.(Priv.)              1.31    1.31    1.31    1.31        1.32
Manag. + Technical services   1.33    1.90    2.97    1.81    2.12           1.35
Working capital /12                0.2     0.4      0.8      1.1      0.7       0.8     0.3
Reinvestment /13                                                       .01       .01      .69    1.49    1.99
Total Costs                        4.66   17.14   22.00   23.25   26.55    29.30   17.48   18.27   18.83
Net Value /14                       -4.84  -16.49  -18.13  -13.20   -7.52    -3.32   16.44   16.70   16.70   14.40
ERR 16.6%
/1  Foreign exchange and unskilled on-farm labor have been shadow priced.
/2  October 1978 prices.
/3  Sale and home consumption of wheat, maize, other cereals, and rape seed.
/4  Sale and home consumption of wheat, maize, other cereals, rape seed, potatoes, vegetables, and apples.
Figures include home-grown maize for livestock feed.
/5  Sale and home consumption of calves, steers, cull cows, milk, cull sows, fat pigs, weaners, eggs,
and poultry.
/6 Residual value of drag lines and drain layers in year 7 and residual value of farm machinery and livestock
and recovery of working capital in year 41.
/7  Seeds, fertilizers, sprays, drying and spraying services, variable machinery, direct labor, and overheads.
/8  Seeds, fertilizers, sprays, sundry direct items, combine harvesting, drying, direct machinery, and
family labor.
/9  Calf starter/milk powder, home-grown maize,balancer, veterinary, medical and artificial insemination,
sundry direct items, and family labor.
/10  Operation and maintenance of drainage infrastructure (US$30 per ha), extension costs, and economic
banking costs due to administration of project loans (assumed to be 2% of new loans).
/11  Based on Project Cost estimates of Table e adjusted to October 1978 prices(deflated by 7.4%). Year 1
figures include investments already made and not financed under the loan. Operating costs and benefits
have been calculated accordingly.
/12  Working capital for crop and livestock production.  For crop production it is assumed that 50% of a
given year's production costs for wheat, rape seed and other cereals and 20% of a given year's production
costs for maize are incurred in the year prior to the year of sale. For livestock production it is
assumed that storage costs amounting to 50% of the value of the incremental home-grown maize are incurred
in the year of feed production.
/13  Includes machinery for private and social sectors, refurbishing of pumping stations, vehicle coats for
research, extension and monitoring.
/14  Total incremental benefits less total incremental costs.
December 1978



APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Participating Agencies in the Project Area
ZAGREBACKA BANKA, ZAGREB (ZB)                                                                   SAVARIVER AUTHORITY (OVP) I
Borrower                                        ~ExEcuting Agenc ____
Social Sector              t Individual                     Drainage User             Flood Control!         Basic Organization of
Enterprises                Farm Sector                       Association         I        Agency            Associated Labour BOALs
"Agroposavina"                                               IZLog
anc "grop       osadina -   Ivanic Grad                    Z          t                 SVIZ-Sava                Administration |
Ivanic Grad                                                       Kut
L    "Posavina"  F                                                                                  |         BOAL Zagreb               VI
Institute of Plant  _            _  r  Selo                                                                          BOAL Dugo Selo
_ Breeding Zagreb             .   g
Pilot farm "Jezevo"                                            SIZ Lonja-Zelina,                                        BOAL Kutina       1
Zagreb                                                       Dugo Selo                                                 S
BOAL Sisak
"Sljeme" BOAL Cattle 
Farm Sesvetski   I--          Sesveste
Kraljevec
"Cazma" Agrokombimat  Cazma                  [SIZCesma-Glogovnica,
I                                    I   SIZ Sisak-Banija
'Koopexport" Sisak        -       Sisak                             i     Sia
_ _~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ein  Sisakt



ANNEX 2
- 66 -
APPRAISAL OF
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Related to the Sava River Basin
A.1 "Study for the Regulation and Management of the Sava River Basin;
Final Report", by Consulting Engineers Consortium, UN, April 1972.
A.2 "Land Reclamation and Development in Sava River Basin", Final
Report of ILACO, # AGS:DP/YUG/68/509 UNDP/WHO, 1973.
A.3  "Sava River Basin Study", Briefing Paper by C. Brochu, FAO, July
1976.
B. Reports and Studies Specific to the Project
B.1 Project Feasibility Study: "Investment Project Crnec Polje", by
Opce Vodoprivredna Poduzece (OVP), Zagreb, 1977.
- Main Report
- Annex  1:  Project area
- Annex  2:  Demography
- Annex  3:  Agriculture
- Annex  4:  Technical aspects
- Annex  5:  Institutions concerned with the project
- Annex  6:  Land tenure and land consolidation
- Annex  7:  Organization and management of the project
- Annex  8:  Market and prices
- Annex  9:  Recapitulation of cost estimates
- Annex 10: Financial analysis
- Annex 11: Economic analysis
B.2 Ruza First-Dilic (Bank Consultant) Reports with parts in Serbo-
Croatian and parts in English.
- Social Impact of Land Consolidation Measures in SR Croatia
- Role of Farm Women in SR Croatia
C. Project Implementation Volume (Working Paper)



IBRD 14150
MARCH 1979
|                             <                                                                             AB1'C'';- X 0S~~~~~~~~~~~Cc 
YU G LAV IA
CROATIA SAVA DRAINAGE PROJECT
--D noge Chn,nne[6 to be Con peted onder Prc 1ecr                                                v <            -        -        fi '/',1
Main Dra rage Channe-/
o roadra D1ra rage Cnarnes                                                                              _      l -i               -_r 
-   Boonoanios of Drainge Areas  the Pelders
t  Pum nO ng tatIons_pres                                                                                                          _X    
- -i Brdges and Cuerts on High yn                                                                                                 fI1-  L
s--oondry DBr rage Choonel CucertsJ
- Rons                                                                             L                                                1  
1;v  8; no         
,j,''\ k



