Page  1
                                                CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 3613-KO
(Petroleum Distribution and Sector Management Improvement Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  DAEHAN OIL PIPELINE CORPORATION
                       Dated June 30,  1993
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3613-KO
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DAEHAN OIL PIPELINE
CORPORATION (DHOPCO).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Korea (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and twenty million dollars
($120,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that DHOPCO agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement entered into between the
Borrower and DHOPCO, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be relent to DHOPCO on the terms and conditions
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS DHOPCO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) DHOPCO declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 (except Part B.1
thereof) to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and DHOPCO shall otherwise
agree, DHOPCO shall carry out the Project (except Part B.1 thereof)
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. DHOPCO shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A, B.2, and B.3 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. DHOPCO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, DHOPCO shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) DHOPCO shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A, B.2
and B.3 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   DHOPCO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts
A, B.2 and B.3 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
Loan, or the performance by DHOPCO of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of DHOPCO
      Section 3.01. DHOPCO shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engi-
neering and public utility practices under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management assisted by competent staff in ade-
Page  3
quate numbers.
      Section 3.02. DHOPCO shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. DHOPCO shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consis-
tent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) DHOPCO shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
      (b)   DHOPCO shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
DHOPCO shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of DHOPCO shows that the estimated net
revenues of DHOPCO for each fiscal year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least one point two times (1.2) the
estimated debt service requirements of DHOPCO in such year on all
debt of DHOPCO including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of DHOPCO
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after the
                  date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification of
                  its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
                  agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                  agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
                  such guarantee has been entered into.
            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related
                        to operations and net non-operating income;
                        and
Page  4
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions including administration, adequate
                        maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, but excluding provision for deprecia-
                        tion, other non-cash operating charges and
                        interest and other charges on debt.
            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                        revenues in (A) above.
            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.
            (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by DHOPCO not earlier than twelve months
                  prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                  which both the Bank and DHOPCO accept as reason-
                  able and as to which the Bank has notified DHOPCO
                  of its acceptability, provided that no event has
                  occurred since such notification which has, or may
                  reasonably be expected in the future to have, a
                  material adverse effect on the financial condi-
                  tion or future operating results of DHOPCO.
            (vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                  be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                  the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
                  such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                  other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                  debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
DHOPCO shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt
the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 70 to 30.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of DHOPCO
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after the
                  date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification of
                  its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
                  agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                  agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
                  such guarantee has been entered into.
            (iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of DHOPCO not allocated to cover specific
                  liabilities.
            (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                  be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                  the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
Page  5
                  such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                  other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                  debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
DHOPCO shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabili-
ties of not less than 1.2.
      (b)   Before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, DHOPCO
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by DHOPCO and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review
upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that DHOPCO would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for DHOPCO's fiscal years
covered by such review, DHOPCO shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure
or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
                  which could in the ordinary course of business be
                  converted into cash within twelve months, includ-
                  ing accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                  inventories and pre-paid expenses properly charge-
                  able to operating expenses within the next fiscal
                  year.
            (ii)  The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under circumstances then existing be called for
                  payment within twelve months, including accounts
                  payable, customer advances, debt service require-
                  ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  dividends.
            (iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.
            (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                  be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                  the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
                  such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                  other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                  debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of DHOPCO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify DHOPCO thereof.
Page  6
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
      For Daehan Oil Pipeline Corporation:
            1049-1 Sadang-Dong
            Dongjak-ku,
            Seoul, Korea
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of DHOPCO may be taken or executed by the President
of DHOPCO or such other person or persons as the President of DHOPCO
shall designate in writing, and DHOPCO shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By   /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
Page  7
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                              DAEHAN OIL PIPELINE CORPORATION
                              By   /s/ Chung Gi Kim
                                         Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1992 (the Guidelines).  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to
bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Korea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guide-
lines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
Page  8
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist DHOPCO in carrying out the Project, DHOPCO
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation, reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank
and to the amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
DHOPCO shall:
      (a)   engage consultants, in accordance with Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to commence not later than November 1,
1993, Phase II of the Energy Conservation Study which shall be
completed by not later than March 31, 1995;
      (b)   engage consultants, in accordance with Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to commence not later than November 1,
1993, a study for the development of a management information system
for DHOPCO under Part B.2 of the Project which shall be completed by
not later than March 31, 1995;
      (c)   implement the mitigation strategies, monitoring and
evaluation practices, and safety procedures contained in Chapters 6,7
and 8 of the Environmental Assessment Report relating to the pipeline
to be constructed under Part A of the Project, and shall take all
measures required on its part as may be necessary or desirable to
ensure that all users of the pipeline comply with the same;
      (d)   not later than August 31, 1993, prepare a staff training
action plan satisfactory to the Bank, to be implemented over the
following two year period for the purposes of strengthening its
financial, operational and managerial capabilities;
      (e)   commencing fiscal year 1993, and not later than December
31 in each fiscal year thereafter, carry out, together with the Bank,
Page  9
an annual review of its investment program;
      (f)   without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Condi-
tions and Section 2.05 of this Agreement, prepare and submit to the
Bank by not later than April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31
in each year of the Project, a quarterly report on the progress of
Project implementation;
      (g)   allow third parties usage of all pipelines under Part A
of the Project, provided that such third parties comply with the
requirements of the Borrower's Law No. 4215 and the regulations
relating to oil transportation; and
      (h)   for the purposes of analyzing and assessing the risks
associated with the operation of the pipeline referred to under Part
A of the Project, and determining the appropriate insurance coverage
therefor, DHOPCO shall:
            (i)   employ, not later than January 1, 1995 insurance
                  consultants in accordance with the provisions of
                  Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank for its review and comment,
                  the report by such consultants containing their
                  findings and recommendations; and
            (iii) without limitation to the provisions of Section
                  3.03 of this Agreement, not later than June 30,
                  1995 take all measures necessary to ensure ade-
                  quate insurance coverage against such risks.
