Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10545-IND Type: (PCR)
DE WIELLE,/ X31'108 / T9 102/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2049-IND)
MARCH 31, 1I92
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Annual Average of USS 1.00 in Rupiah
1980 (Project Appraisal)          627
1981 (Board Approval)             632
1982                              661
1983                              909
1984                            1,026
1985                            1,111
1986                            1,283
1987                            1,644
1988                            1,681
1989                            1,770
1990 (Project Completion)       1,843
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Bina Marga        Directorate General of Highways
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
GOI               Government of Indonesia
Jabotabek         Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Area
Jasa Marga         PT (Persero) Jasa Marga - National Toll Road Corporation
KFAED              Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
ORR               Outer Ring Road of Jakarta
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
TRIP              Toll Road Investment Plan



AFOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washing on, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offe iE DteckwtoGeneral
Opetatine EvaIlutU
April 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia Jakarta-Cikampek Highway
Project (Loan 2049-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Indonesia Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project (Loan 2049-IND)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
| of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OF.- "AL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2049-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                          ii
PART I:     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity .1
2. Background .1
3.     Project Objectives and Description.                             2
4.     Project Design and Organization                                 4
5.  Project Implementation.                                            5
6. Project Results.                                                    7
7.  Project Su;4tainability.                                           8
8.  Bank Performar....                                                 9
9.  Performance of the Borrower .10
10.  Project Relationship .11
11.     Consulting Services                                            11
12.     Project Documentation and Data                                 11
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in
Part III of the PCR                                            13
B.     Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I
of the PCR .13
C.     E-aluation of the Bank's Performance and
Lessons Learned .13
D.     Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and
Lessons Learned .        ........................  14
E.     Effectiveness of the Relationship between
the Bank and the Borrower                                      17
F.     Evaluation of the Performance of Cofinanciers
and Their Relationship with the Borrower .17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:      Related Bank Loans and Credits in the
Highway Sector        ....................................              19
Table 2:      Project Timetable ....................................                   20
Table S:      Lcan Disbursements            ..............................             21
Table 4:      Project Implementation   ..............................                  22
Table 5:      Project Costs and Financing    ........................                  23
Table 6:      Project Results    ....................................                  26
Table 7:      Status of Covenants           ..............................             27
Table 8:      Use of Bank Resources    ..............................                  29
ANNEX I:      ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
ME: IBRD 15036



FROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2049-IND)
PREEE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Jakarta   Cikampek
Highway Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2049-IND in the amount of US$ 85
million was approved on October 9, 1981. The loan was closed on June 30, 1990,
two and a half years after the original closing date. It was fully disbursed and
the last disbursement was made in November 1990.
The PCR was jointly and simultaneously prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division of Country Department III of the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III and Annex I), and
the Borrower (Part II). Subsequently the Bank sent the Borrojwer Parts I and III
for comment but none were received. The co-financier, Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (KFAED), did not provide comments on the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR is based on information contained in the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, consult;ants' progress
and final reports, correspondence in the project files and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2049-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMRY
Project Objectives and Description
The primary objective of the project was to increase the capacity of
the main road transport corridor east of Jakarta. The second objective was to
improve GOI's management of and development planning capacity for the transport
system in the greater Jakarta metropolitan area. Main project's components were:
(i) the construction of a new 72 km lcng toll road between Jakarta and Cikampek;
(ii) the improvement of the existing highway between Jakarta and Cikampek; and
(iii) technical assistance and studies.
Implementation Experience
On the whole, there were no major difficulties in project
implementation. Yet, a delay in implementation of about two years developed at
the start of the pr"ja't, mainly due to confusion regarding the role that Jasa
Marga was to play (paras 4.1, b.3, and 5.6).
There was a major difference between the engineer's cost estimates
and the bids received for civil works and for construction supervision. Funds
thus made available were used to correct deficiencies in original project design
and carry out studies mostly for improving urban transport in Izndonesia and
defining future toll road investments.   Disbursement percentages were alsn
increased to help GOI counteract the effects of the 1986 changes in oil prices
(paras 5.2, 5.3 and 5.5).
Parts of the toll road that had been constructed only with two lanes
under the project were widened to four lanes soon after completion (para 5.4).
Delays in establishing the legal framework for axle load control
resulted in some damage to the pavement and a reduction in the design life of the
toll road (para 5.7).
Results
The project achieved all the physical objectives stated in the SAR.
Traffic in the Jakarta-Cikampek corridor and on the toll road developed quite
differently from projected, however. On average, traffic (and particularly heavy
traffic) on the toll road is quite lower than expected. Economic returns for the
project are also substantially different. -The suburban section of the toll road
is likely to have an ERR much higher than the SAR estimate (23Z) although it is
not possible to reevaluate the ERR precisely. On the contrary, the rural section
of the toll road has a low ERR (about 1OZ) and its construction was most likely
premature (paras 6.2 and 6.3).



- lii -
Traffic safety on the toll road proved to be a problem partly because
the international design standards and criteria that were used may not reflect
drivers' behavior in Indonesia. The early start of a road safety prcgram might
have improved the situation (paras 4.7 and 5.4)
Sustainability
The outlook is good to sustain project benefits.   Through the
project, GOI has gained valuable experience with toll road design, construction
and management, which is iow being applied. Axle load control and traffic safety
problems were also eventually addressed satisfactorily.   In addition,  the
periodic maintenance of both the toll road and the existing road are well
provided for. A specific problem that will need careful attention in the future
is that routine maintenance appears to be neglected (para 6.5, 7.1 and 7.2).
Main Lessons Learned
Because of the innovative nature o.      roject, it is not surprising
-t change  and additions had to Ue made during implementation.  The Bank showed
eat unde: -anding and flexibility and this helped considerably fulfill project
ctives :  he most efficie.it way.  With new and untested project designs, as
in thit case, physical contingencies should be increased and the loan agreement
should bc written -Ln such a way that the.c. is scope for flexibility during
projact execution (pazas 5.5, 8.2 and 8.4).
Experience under the project highlights the complexity of projecting
traffic and the high margin of lncertainty which remains unavoidable in such an
exercise. Studieis of the value of time and the price elasticity of demand for
Indonesian drivers .and of diversion rates froia existing roads to alternative toll
roads are urgently required (paras 4.8 and 6.2).
Organizational and institutional issues need to be resolved pr-or to
project implementation (paras 4.3, 5.6 and 10.2).   Measures that are of a
regulatory nature or requires inter-agency coordination take time to implement
(paras 5.7 and 7.2).
Research is required on road design standards, driver behavior and
appropriate safety measures in Indonesia. This, in combination with the traffic
studies mentioned above, would improve substantially the planning and design of
highway capacity development projects in Indonesia (paras 4.7 and 5.4).
The Bank ought to look into the possibility of producing a more
general report on its experiences with motorway construction and in particular
on the various technical issues raised in this PCR (para 12.3).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2049-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name :  Jakarta - Cikampek Highway Project
Loan No.          2049-IND
RVP Unit      :  East Asia and Pacific Regional Office Country Department III
Country           Indonesia
Sector       :   Transport
Subsector    :  Highways
2.    BACKGROUND
2.1   At the time of project appraisal in April-May, 1980, The Eank had
already financed five Highway projects with a total Loan/Credit E.Auv,lL in the
order of USS 329 Million.
2.2   The development objectives for the transport sec.or were to keep pace
with Government's plans for economic growth, which were aimed at steering the
economy away from'its dependency on oil through diversification of the
manufacturing sector, expansion of export trade and settlements in the outer
islands, and to improve the efficiency in general in the transport sector. In
the highway sub-sector, this was reflected in a high proportion of the Bank
Group involvement in Indonesia being directed toward the rehabilitation and
then increasingly towards the expansion of infrastructure facilities, during
the first three five-year development plans. About 16Z of the budgets were
allocated to transport, and more than half of this was allocated to the road
sub-sector.
2.3   The first systematic approach to the development of the highway
subsector began with the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND, May 1979) when
the Bank attempted to introduce the Government to the application of economic
criteria in the preparation of highway investment and maintenance programs and
to engage the Government in a dialogue on overall sector strategy and a range
of sector issues. The issues included the improvement of sector organization
and management, overhaul of the road traffic and road licensing laws,
rationalization of the assessment and collection of road user charges,
elimination of fuel price subsidies and enforcement of vehicle dimension and
axle load regulations. The policy context--of Bank operations was becoming
better focussed on the need to improve efficiency and establish and maintain a
transport system that is self financing and responsive to demand.
2.4   Bank involvement ir the highway sector became broader and deeper in the



- 2 -
two projects that followed, namely, the First Highway Betterment Project
(Loan 2404-IND, April,1984) and the Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project
(Loan 2717-IND, June 12, 1986). The Bank's attention had already shifted from
financing civil works only to traininF and strengthening institutions at
central, provincial and district levels. The Bank now sought to involve
itself in the whole of the Government's highway expenditure program and to
contribute to improving performance of the subsector. The Bank was edging
towards sector type lending operations which became a reality in the ongoing
Highway Sector Project (Loan 3133-IND, Nov-iber, 1989).
2.5   The 1972 Trans Java Highway Feasibility Study, supported by the USAID,
came up with the recnmmendation to construct a new highway from Jakarta to
Cikampek/Purwakarta as the first link of a Trans Java Highway. In 1974,
Government appointed a German consulting firm to study the possibility of
implementing a toll-road system in the Greater Jakarta area by integrating the
three regional links to Bogor, Merak and Cikampek. The report recommended the
Jakarta - Cikampek Highway to be built i-' stages with implementation to start
in 1980. In 1977, the Government, with IBRD support, commissioned the same
consultant to carry out a review of the feasibility study anO' to do the
detailed enginee.ing for the Jakarta - Cikampek highway.
3.    PROJECT ^PjECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1   Project Objectives.  The primary objective of the project was to provide
the urgently needed increase in the capacity of the road network in the
Jakarta - Cikampek corridor. In addition, the project would improve the
management of - and development planning capacity for - the transport system
in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Area.
3.2   Project Components.  The project, as originally defined, consisted of
the following elements:
(a)   Construction of a new limited access, fully grade-separated toll
road of 72 Km between Jakarta and Cikampek;
(b)   Improvement to the existing Jakarta-Cikampek highway between
Bekns4 and Cikampek, by:
ti)   construction o  by-passes around major settlements;
(ii) grade separation of road and rail traffic at one location;
(iii) establishing uniform widths of pavements and widened hard-
surfaced shoulders to accommodate human and animal propelled
traffic;
(iv) low cost traffic management measures; and
(v)   drainage improvements.



- 3-
(c)   Consulting services to:
(i)   supervise the civil works and ancilla., operations required
to improve the existing Jakarta-Cikampek Highway and to
construct the new toll road;
(ii)  assist in strengthening the capacity of P.T. Jasa Marga to
manage toll road operations (75 man-months);and
(iii) assist in implementing arrangements for impreved regional
transport planning and system management for the Greater
Jakarta Metropolitan Area (75 man-months).
The first 25 km out cf Jakarta was ou.lt with four lanes    ction A), whereas
the remainder, (Sections B aad C) wit" two lanes, with provisior -or widening
at a later stage, as the traffic increased. Five spur roads weve included,
totalling 34 km.
3.3   During project implementation, partly as a result of the low bi ; on
civil works, certain feeder roads and access facilities, originally foreseen
to be included in a separate project or as a second phase construction, were
approved by the Bank and included in the project. In addition, new items of
civil works as well as related studicv, were included at various times during
implementation. In some cases, amendment to the Loan agreement was required.
A complete list of additional components (excluding ordinary variation
orders), is given below:
In Section A:
1.  Jatibening Access, excluding toll facilities.
2.  Toll facilities, Outer Ring Road (ORR) and Jatibening.
3.  Traffic devices and street lights, ORR, Klender road.
4.  Frontage road, (ORR).
5.  Banjir canal bridge and underpass (ORR).
6.  DKI flyover (ORR).
7.  Traffic boxes and slab bridge at 5 locaW.ons,(ORR).
8.  Retaining wall, (ORR).
9.  Barrier Gate ard Related works, section A.
In Section D:
1.  Feeder road Cika_ 'ig
2. Cikampek - Jomin road.
Land Protection:
1. Land protection in Sections A,B and-C, including maintenanc
Additional Consulting Services:
1. Design and Supervision of additional works.



-4-
Technical Assistance and studies:
1.  Construction Indastry Development Program,
2.  Gempol- Malang Toll Road, Feasibility Study.
3. Environcuintal impact Study, Cikampek-Padalarang.
4. Toll Road Investment Program.
5. Various Urban studies.
4.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1   The project was planned to be executed by the Government of the Republic
of Indonesia through the Directorate General of Highwaye, (DGII or Bina Marga),
under the Ministry of Public Works. However, those parts which de&lt with the
toll road construction and operation were, during implementa.'-n, handed over
to the Indonesian National Highway Corporation (Jasa Marga).
4.2   The project was parallel funded by IBRD and the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (KFAED). IBRD assisted in financing Sections A, and D,
whereas KFAED assisted in f iancing Section B and C. In the later stages of
project implementation, the Export and Import Bank of Japan, (Exim Bank)
contributed to the project by co-financing of local costs. As a result of the
Gulf war in 1990/91, bridging finance far portions of the KrF'.- Credit was
made available through the Chemical "nk Asia Ltd.
4.3   Counterpart funding was raised as an issue in 1983-84, when it became
clear -.hat Jasa Marga was unable to raise enough funds for its financial
obligations on the open market, and the Government failed to make adequate
funds available through regular budget provisions. After lengthy discussions
between the GOI and the Bank, an exchange of letters dated January 1984,
established GOI's commitment and responsibility to cover the local portion
(50Z), as well as GOI's obligation to make Jasa Marga into a financially
viable entity. The relationship between GOI and Jasa Marga was defined, and
plans to improve the management capacity of Jasa Marga was agreed upon. (At
one stage, the civil works contractor had to agree to cover local costs on the
contracts, out of his own pocket for a period of 3 to 4 months).
4.4 Detailed engineering for the civil works of the pro,ect was prepared by
consultants ahead of project appraisal, apart from the additional components
described in para.a.2. Government experienced some delays in land
acquisition, and some design changes and adjustments became necessary because
of lack of zoning enforcement resulting in uncontrolled changes in land use
and rapid development of residential and commercial land along the new
highway.
4.5    The concept of cost recovery through toll-collection was well
understood by the Borrower who had gained-veIuable experiences in this field
through previous projects. Some of the details regarding toll-plaza layout,
not finalized prior to tendering, were resolved partly through the technical
assistance assignment financed under the project. The stage construction
concept for meeting the growing demand for capacity over time, was taken into
account in a rational manner in project design. All stadies needed to ensure



proper implementation of all the road segments, had been catered for in the
project. The civil works was tendered in early 1982, and the bids received
were only about SOZ of the engineer's estimate. Similar cost-savings were
made in respect of consultants services. At the request of Government, IBRD
agreed in July, 1986 to include additional components, para. 3.2, and to
increase the disbursement percentage3.
4.6   The project set out '.o address the capacity problem in the corridor
between Jakarta and Cikamrek. It was expected that even with a new high
capacity motor way (fully access controlled) through the corridor, additional
capacity was still needed for the existing national road, running parallel,
and up to 10 Km to the north of the new road. A comprehensive approach
incorporating the existing road, the new motor way and the links between the
two facilities was adopted. The split in traffic between the new and the old
road could to some degree, be influenced by the level of tolls to be applied.
4.7   American/European geometric design standards were used.  These do not
necessarily reflect driver behavior in Indonesia. This might to some extent
explain the type and severity of the traffic accidents that developed,
especially on the single carriageway sections. Partly because of the
political pressure resulting from these accidents, GOI started the
construction of the second carriageway earlier than generally accepted
capacity -n1culations would have indicated. The early start of a road safety
program (it was initiated only late in 1989) might have improved considerably
the road safety situation without this major investment. The ongoing Capacity
Manual consultancy should address this issue so that future motor way projects
in Indonesia can benefit from this experience.
4.8   The old road was widened and in places relocated to bypass heavily
urbanized sections and to avoid level crossings with the railway, including
one road-over-rail bridge. The ribbon development along this stretch of road
is very intense, and the road has to serve as a busy semi-urban street as well
as a through road. How to address the design problems related to this dual
purpose is worth investigating. The tariff structure on the toll road could
possibly be used more efficiently to achieve a better traffic split between
the old and the new facility. The fact that the operator of the toll road
facility, in this case Jasa Marga, is mostly interested in maximizing their
own revenues, rather than the economic benefits for the country as a whole,
may often distort the fixing of rates.
4.9   The Government appointed two Project Managers (PM).  One was in charge
of Section A,B and C and the other for improvement works on the old road. The
PM's were assisted by a Consultant who supervised the construction works on
the six contracts involving five contractor groups.
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1   The civil works was divided into six separate contracts for sections
A,B,C,D and for Landscaping on Sections A,B and C. Five different contractors,
either Indonesian firms or foreign firms in joint venture with local firms,
were awarded the contracts starting in 1983, and with the last addendum issued



in 1990. All contracts have been completed, including the addenda, and the
last final hand-over date for the last addition (Overlay on the Main Highway
Section A) is scheduled for October 1991. The formal closing date was exiended
three times. The first from December 31, 1987 to December 31, 1988. The
second up to December 31, 1989, and the third up to June 30, 1990.
5.2   There was a substantial difference between the Engineer's estimate and
the bids received for civil works and fo- construction supervision. How to
deal with funds thus made available out of the Bank loan was made the subject
of detailed discussions between the GOI and the Bank during the period from
November 1983 to July 1986. Eventually, various addenda were approved for
required additional works and studies, and the Loan Agreement was amended to
reflect changes in the disbursement percentages (agreed in 1986 for macro-
economics reasons) and adjustments in project description. Almost all changes
conformed with the original project concept, i.e. to assist the Government in
solving the severe capacity problem in the Jakarta - Cikampek corridor and in
the metropolitan area as a whole.
5.3   The fact that the details related to toll-plaza construction had not
been finalized prior to tendering, could have resulted in claims and increased
costs. However, it seems as if the procedures used by the Client were sound
in so far as the main contracts were let at the right time in terms of price,
and that the details for toll ccllaction could be worked out based on local
and overseas experience in an orderly manner and iincluded in the works without
interfering unduly with the progress of the main civil works contracts.
5.4   The project assumed that dualling of Sections B and C would not be
required until about 1994. However, as soon as the single carriageway
sections were opened to traffic in 1988, traffic accidents (mainly speed
related) occured along this stretch of road and Jasa Marga initiated the
construction of the second carriageway which will soon be completed. This
phase of construction was carried out under a private BOT (Build, Operate &
Transfer) arrangement with toll receipts being shared between Jasa Marga and
the BOT investors for that portion of the road. Such action cannot be
justlfied on capacity grounds alone. Again, it seems as if the
internationally accepted design standards and criteria may not fit the local
conditions. Traffic in Indonesia tends to operate with shorter distance
between cars than what is normal in those countries where capacity standards
were developed. Also, during congested periods, drivers tend to take
advantage of the relatively wide lanes as well as the shoulders and thereby
make the two lanes into a four lane carriageway. Safety measures (including
driver education) need to be adapted to such behavior. There is a case for
further investigations into the capacity, driver behaviour and road safety
aspects of high capacity roads in Indonesia.
5.5   In many ways, the project was executed as if it was a sector operation
with the added flexibility such projects provides. The Bank and the
Government took advantage of the low bids received and managed to solve a
number of important issues related to the original concept (particulirly
concerning access roads and toll plazas), by introducing additional components
or addenda to ongoing works as well as new studies in preparation for new Bank
operations in the sub-sector. Also, when the country's economy suffered from



-7-
reduction in oil revenues, the Bank was able to assist by increasirg its
participation at short notice and thereby avoiding potential claim. from the
contsactors, had there been any shortage of local funds.
5.6   A delay in implementation of about two years developed at the start of
the project, mainly due to confusion regarding the role t.at Jasa Marga was to
play. See para. 4.3., GOI decided in late 1982 that Jasa Marga should be the
implementing agency and provide local financing from its own limited
resources. Additional delays developed, and in 1988, disbursements were
3 1/2 years behind SAR estimates. This is, however, not the best measure of
implementation progress, since the unit rates were so much lower than
estimated in the SAR. In terms of physical progress of work, the delays were
probably less than two years throughout implementation. Considering all the
changes and additions during project execution, it would have been surprising
if the project could be successfully completed without delays.
5.7   Overloading became an issue soon after the road was opened to traffic.
Axle loads up to 30 tons were recorded. Delays in establishing the legal
framework for ax'.e load control on toll roads, resulted in some damage to the
pavement, and a reduction in the design life.
5.8   The transport studies were reduced in scope to focus on the Jakarta
Metropolitan area in preparation for a possible Jakarta Transport Project. At
the same time, the Loan agreement was amended to include similar studies for
four other major cities ( Semarang, Surabaya, Medan and Bandung). The
contract for these studies were signed in May, 1985.
6.    PROJECT RESULTS
6.1   The project achieved all the objectives stated in the SAR.  In addition,
due to substantial cost savings in the civil works components, it was possible
to include new items, most of them necessary to fulfill project objectives,
that otherwise would have had to be included in a later project.
6.2   Traffic in the Jakarta Cikampek corridor and on the toll road has
developed quite differently from projected. On average, for the entire
corridor, actual traffic is similar to the forecast. However, the forecast
underestimated substantially the growth of traffic demand between Jakarta and
Bekasi (now mostly an urbanized area) while probably overestimating the growth
between Bekasi and Cikampek (still mostly a rural area). More importantly the
diversion rate (i.e. the share of total corridor traffic that chooses to use
the toll road) turncd out to be much lower than expected (about 35Z instead of
80Z) probably because the value of time and convenience is lower for drivers
and transport companies than assumed while the proportion of local trips on
the existing road may be higher. As a result, the traffic on the toll road is
on average quite lower than expected, especMally for heavy traffic.  These
developments are discussed in more detail in Annex 1. It highlights the
complexity of projecting traffic and the high margin of uncertainty whicL.
remains unavoidable in such an exercise.
6.3   The economic returns of the project are also substantially different



from SAR estimates. Between Jakarta and _ekasi, total corridor traffic has
now probably exceeded the capacity of the existing road and further capacity
improvements are not possible except at an extremely high (construction and
environmental) cost which the PCR mission was not in a position to estimate.
The part of the toll road between Jakarta and Bekasi therefore has an ERR
probably substantially higher than the SAR estimate (23Z). Instead, between
Bekasi and Cikampek, total traffic could have been accommodated (at least
until the late 1990s or early 2000s) by the existing road widened to four
lanes probably around 1993-94, a cheaper alternative than constructing the
toll road. This second part of the toll road, therefore, was premature and
has a relatively low ERR (about lOZ - see Annex 1 for more details) when
compared to the above alternative. No separate ERR was given in the SAR for
the improvement of the existing road. Given the very high traffic on this
road and the relatively low cost of improvements, this third part of the
project is likely to have a high ERR.
6.4   The environmental impact of the project is considerable.  A 50 m wide
road reserve had to be set aside, mainly from highly productive agricultural
land, and the Banjir Canal was a special feature in the area requiring special
considerations. The land acquisition was carried out in a reasonable fashion,
and the problem of the visual impact of such a large highway project was
effectively addressed through good geometric design and through extensive and
pleasing landscaping works. The demand for additional crossing points for
pedestrians became apparent during construction. New overpasses were
constructed in several places, indicating that this aspect was not adequately
assessed during project preparation.
6.5   Through the preparation and implementation of the project, the
Government, through Jasa Marga and Bina Marga, gained valuable experience with
toll road design, construction and management. The institutions were
strengthened and are better capable of addressing the serious issue of how to
solve the considerable need for high capacity roads in the urban and semi-
urban areas of Indonesia in the years to come.
6.6   Technical assistance in toll road management was quite successful.  As
Jasa Marga's respcnsibilities increased during implementation, additional
services were needed. An addendum covering policies and procedures for the
design, construction and maintenance of toll roads and to improve the capacity
of Jasa Marga staff, was approved by the Bank in 1984.
6.7   All the studies, both those included in the original project, and those
added during project implementation, were successfully completed. The urban
transport studies were the basis of the Bank's Regional Cities Urban Transport
and First Jabotabpk Projects. The construction industry studies helped
develop a comprehensive set of recommendations to improve the efficiency of
the industry. The other studies helped Jasa-Marga identify and study priority
investments in toll roads.
7.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY



-9
7.1   The sustainability of the project depends on the technical and financial
capacity of Jasa Marga to develop, maintain and operate the toll road network.
Jasa Marga is taking action when periodic maintenance is required, but there
is some doubt whether Jasa Marga and Bina Marga in the case of the old road,
are adequately equipped and organized to take care of routine maintenance
tasks that will become more and more important as the facilities get older.
The hard shoulders, for example on the old road and near the rest areas on the
toll road, are already showing signs of distress. The Bank should assist the
Government in its efforts to improve the routine maintenance capability both
in Bina Marga and in Jasa Marga.
7.2   Jasa Marga had already established good contpct and agreements with the
traffic police for the operation of the Jakarta-Bogor toll road. This
arrangement has now been extended although quite late to the Jakarta-Cikampek
toll road. It is hoped that more intensive police surveillance as well as the
opening of the second carriageway will help improve the accident situation in
general, on the toll road. It is also hoped that with the new Government
regulation on toll roads, Jasa Marga will be able to better control axle loads
on the road.
8.    BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1   At an early stage in project preparation, April 1979, the Bank set out
the reasons for its support for the project. These were:
"(i) The catalytic role the Bank could play in arranging co-financing.
(ii) The opportunity for the Bank to broaden its policy dialogue with
the Government by assisting in a new area where complex pricing,
financial and organizational issues are being formulated; and
(iii) The unusual complex nature of the project, which, while not in
conflict with sector lending, cannot lend itself to a sector
lending approach, but rather requires in-depth appraisal
capability which is not expected to be available within the
country at the present."
The Bank's willingness to assist in formulating an innovative program like
this one deserves credit. Government succeeded in attracting co-financing, the
dialogue with the executing agencies and with the policy makers regarding toll
roads operation and management must have been beneficial to both the Bank and
to Government and the technical guidance that the Bank provided, must have
contributed greatly to the success of the project.
8.2   Because of the innovative nature of the project, it is not surprising
that changes and additions had to be made-dwring implementation. The Bank
showed great understandimng and flexibility in this situation. T he low bids
for civil works did of course make it easier for all parties to be flexible in
this way. The lesson to be learned would be that in new and untested project
designs, the physical contingencies should be increased and the loan agreement
should be written in such a way that there is scope for flexibility during



- 10 -
project execution.
8.3   When considering the complex nature and the size of the project, it is
suLprising that the Bank considered a frequency of supervision missions of 12
months or more to be adequate. (Most of the supervision missions were even
carried out in combination with supervision or preparation of two or three
other projects and probably did not include enough time of an economist).
8.4   The question of how the Bank handled the large savings 1 (In the order
of US$ 30 Million ac the start of the project) resulting from the very low
bies compared to the engineer's estimate and successive devaluations of the
Rupiah, was confusing to the Borrower. Bank staff indicated its willingness
to reco.=mend adjustments to the project description and disbursement
arrangements at an early stage, but as the matter was taken up officially with
Bank management, the Bank's policy of canceling any surplus funds was strictly
applied. However, this decision was rescinded in April 1986 ".. in order to
mitigate the impact of the FY86187 budget allocations.." which were
drastically reduced to adjust to the collapse of oil prices. Project cost
estimates were regularly updated during supervision missions. The contingency
category, physical and price, was maintained at a very high level in these
estimates, even when over 30Z of the civil works were completed, and many
contracts had been let. It is understandable that the Borrower and Bank
project staff would try to maximize the use of zv-ilable funds during project
implementation.  However, when the "savings" re%ches the proportion it did in
this case, it might be considered inappropriate to maintain such large sums in
the project as a reserve. However, important additional work to fulfill
project objective, increases in the disbursement percentage required for the
macro-economic reasons outlined above and new studies, combined with
unavoidable cost escalation during the extended implementation period (due in
particular to the major appreciation of the yen in dollar terms) resulted in
the whole of the IBRD component being utilized by the time the project was
clos'ed in June 1990.
9. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
9.1   The Government has continued to prepare and execute Bank-financed
projects in an efficient manner. However, in this case, delays occurred as a
result of the Government's decision to make Jasa Marga responsible for raising
funds to cover the local cost comoonent through issuing bonds on the open
market. Jasa Msrga as a parastatal company, was not well established at that
time, and raising the funds became a problem which took some time to resolve.
9.2   Questions raised by the Bank during preparation of the project were
answered promptly and competently.
1 Saving is not strictly the correct term in this case, because it can be
argued that the design of the project was not complete at the time the project
was started. This was particularly the case in respect of access roads,
pedestrian crossings and interchanges. Additional work had to be included to
fullfill the original objective of the project.



- 11 -
9.3   Government and the two implementing agencies, made timely decisions and
initiated requests to the Bank for additional studies and works when this
became necessary.
9.4   Jasa Marga experienced problems with traffic control, including axle
load restrictions, soon after the toll road was opened to traffic. it is
likely that some of the accidents and other problems could have been avoided
had the special traffic police unit for the toll roads and other measures been
introduced at an earlier stage. Axle load control is being introduced by Jasa
Marga in an effort to reduce premature deterioration to the pavement.
9.5    Also, the routine maintenance arrangements have not been given high
enough priority, and the result is now showing up as shoulder failure, both on
.he toll road (rest areas) and along sections of the old road.
10.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.1 The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was good throughout
the preparation and implementation periods. Both parties reacted in a timely
manner to changes in circumstances that developed as the project progressed.
This is demonstrated in that apart from the initial delays due to confusion
regarding Jasa Marga's role and later on due to additional works, the .vject
proceeded according to plan. Bank supervision missions offered valuable
advice which was followed up by the Borrower in a spirit of good co-operation.
10.2 The fact that Jasa Marga's role in project execution was not properly
defined at the start of the project created undue confusion during the early
stages. The lesson that can be drawn from this, is that the Bank should
insist on Government clarifying the institutional situation prior to
negotiations.
11.   CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1 Overall, the performance of the consultants for the many studies
financed under the project was satisfactory. The supervising consultant for
the civil works components showed flexibility during the many changes in
design and composition of the various components, and provided the required
staff in a timely manner.
12.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1 Taking into consideration the innovative character of the project, the
documentation was as well prepared in advance as can be expected. Some of the
civil works details were not available at-the time of tendering, but this was
known by all parties, and rectified during implementation without additional
cost. The detailed engineering did not adequately foresee the cost of works,
resulting in substantially lower bids than anticipated. Under normal
circumstances, this would indicate some degree of negligence on the part of
the design engineer. In this case, however, the Engineer's estimate was based



_ 12 -
upon recer,t bids for similar work in the region. What was not foreseen, was
that the competitive situation in the contracting industry had changed
drastically prior to tendering. However, the magnitude of the difference
between estimate and bids, is so large that it gives rise to some doubts
regarding the quality of the Engineer's estimate.
12.2 The Borrower only prepared progress reports for the toll road's civil
works and did not fulfill its obligation to prepare progress reports to the
Bank on the various other components and the overall status of the project.
Audit reports were prepared on time and were found satisfactory.
12.3 The Bank ought to look into the possibility of producing a more general
report on its experiences from this and other involvements in motorway
construction to update our knowledge on toll roads preparation and operation
and in particular on the various technical issues raised in this PCR. (Road
capacity, road design standards, local driver behaviour, Road safety, Land-use
planning, time value and traffic diversion rates, etc.).



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2049-IND)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROEOR'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Adeauacv and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III of the PCR
(Part III not yet available for Borrower's confirmation)
B.    Comment on the Analyses Contained in Part I of the PCR
(Part I not yet available for Borrower's comment)
C.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lesons Learned
Bank personnel were recognized as highly professional in all
relevant  respects.      The  missions  monitoring  the  Project
implementation came frequently enough to Jakarta so that a
continuous exchange of information, guidance and opinion could take
place creating an atmosphere of mutual benefit for the Project
including for the various other studies financed under the loan.
The Bank's flexibility to increase its share of participation for
certain works and services, and to extend its participation to
additional construction works in Section A and D was highly
appreciated.
In retrospect, however, the following subjects might give room for
adjustment in future projects of similar nature:
-    Disbursements
The Bank's missions during almost all visits over the last
five years expressed their dissatisfaction concerning the slow
pace of disbursement with increasing concern in recent years.
Unfortunately the Borrower could not convince the Bank that
the main reason for such 'slow pace of disbursement" were
mainly:
1)    an unrealistic disbursement schedule established at the
time of drafting the loan agreement (1981),
2)    the necessity to keep reserves for currency fluctuation,
a main risk for long implementation times involving
various freely floating currencies,
3)    the uncertainties for price revision over such long time
period.
It is admitted that part of the delay in disbursement is
accountable to Borrower's initial difficulties to process
invoices and withdrawal applications efficiently and the
delayed performance of the Contractor of Section D-I, but the
main share of the Bank's financing was allocated for Section
A construction, where physical progress was never a source of
concern. In order to improve the disbursement in line with
the Bank's expectations,



- 14 -
the Borrower's Project Management felt obliged to promote
invoicing larger amounts than it would have been necessary
under normal more business like attitudes.
Hereby, of course, commitment fees could be saved, but higher
interest costs for both, the foreign and the local financed
cost portions had to be accepted by far out-running the
savings in commitment fees.
Loan Closing Date
The loan closing date had to be extended three times and was
finally fixed for the 30th of June 1990. In the last months
prior to this closing date, major construction activities,
mainly overlay works in Section A and D-II construction still
took place and a potential danger existed that certain works
would not be physically completed prior to this final closing
date.
Consequently any effort was taken to increase the daily
production of the Contractors, which included regular night
work and the mobilization of additional equipment and staff.
Generally, under such circumstances quality standards are more
difficult to enforce.
The potential danger that physica.. works might remain
unfinished at the final deadline creLed an atmosphere of
uncertainties and worries. A more flexible approach of the
Bank in this matter would have been appreciated.
D.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
The performance of the participating institutions was
generally  satisfying.    There  were  some  shortcomings  in
communications with the Bank and other institutions which may
have delayed approvals for contract extensions and contract
changes. Also initially disbursement procedures were running
unsmooth with some delay. In retrospect the following major
subject could be mentioned:
D.    Works and SuRervision
-     Delay o.  contract signing
Bids for construction contracts of Section ABC and D
were received in May 1982, but contracts were signed on
July 7th 1983 for Section D and on October 27th 1983 for
Section ABC and Supervisory Services.
The delay of approx. 1 year was accountable to the
difficulties to provide Rp-financing for the projects.



- 15 -
ROW acquisition difficulties
Most ROW was available when necessary for construction. Some
minor areas could not be cleared due to pending compensation
claims, but physical progress was hereby not severely
hampered.
An exception, however, was the acquisition of Government owned
land in possession of the Ministry of Forestry (km 86 - 90)
and the Ministry of Defense (km 21 - 23.5). In the first case
it took 6 months and in the second case even 18 months from
the take over of the site till the area could be entered. To
avoid similar delays in the future ROW needs and problems
should be brought to higher Ministerial levels for timely
decision and enforcement of the actual release
Opening of the rollwav in stafes
Contractual stipulations called for the completion of the
project in various stages, starting with an opening of the
most feasible segment from Cawang to Bekasi in early 1987 and
ending with the completion of the last segment in 1990.
This gave Jasa Marga the opportunity to start its operation on
a small scale in an open system and to grow gradually over a
period for 3 years to the full scale operation for a closed
system with 13 tollplazas and full maintenance responsibility.
Utility relocations
The delayed relocation of high tension power-lines and
telephone cablts was an obstacle for a steady progress of the
works.  The utility companies which made these relocations
fully at the project's account were unable to give reliable
schedules for their relocation works.
Local financing
After initial delay reported above local financing from "DIP"
and in case of Jasa Marga from bond issues was continuously
available and the disbursements, took place promptly. From
July 1988 on all local financing was taken over by the Exim
Bank (Japan) based on an Inter-governmental agreemant with
Japan.
Development of local contractors
Local contractors as partners of joint operations with the
leading foreign contractor had good opportunities to improve
their professional skill in technical as well as managerial
matters.



- 16 -
This enabled the local partner of Section C construction to
take the lead of the same joint operation in the privately
financed second stage construction of the Cikarang - Cikampek
Segment (southern lanes).
A general promotion of adequate participation of the local
joint venture partner and its monitoring during the project
would probably improve the role of local contractors.
Overloaded truck traffic
Shortly after the opening of the full length of the tollway an
excessive heavy truck traffic developed with a measured
average ESA-factor of more than 4 and maximum single axle
loads of up to 30 tons, causing ruting and alligator cracks in
the Jakarta bound outer lane between Karawang-East and Bekasi-
West.
Pt. Jasa Marga had initially no legal tool to avoid such
overloaded trucks for using the tollway till Governmental
degrees were issued to allow the enforcement of axle load
limitation.
In the 1.5 years uncontrolled operation prior to the issuance
of respective degrees a substantial share of the pavement
design life was consumed.
Construction Rerformance
Contractor's performance was generally satisfying. However,
delays occurred in Section D-I which were fully attributable
to contractors initial unability to recruit in due time at
team of professional staff with adequate experience in
managerial and technical matters.
In Section A and B were physical progress was generally good,
the enforcement of quality was a source of concern due to the
large number of partly less skilled and responsible site teams
which operated wide spread at many places simultaneously in
Section A and B.  Probably if contractor's management and
supervisory staff could have concentrated on one section only,
quality could have been easier secured.
projects DeveloRment Impact
The implementation of the Project greatly enhanced the
development of the area served by the Project. Large scale
housing complexes in the Bekasi area providing accommodation
for more than 200,000 people were built in recent years and
plans for iauch more urban development are in preparation.
In the Kabupaten Bekasi and Karawang in the proximity of the
tollway   accesses   major   industrial   developments   are
anticipated.    Newly  established  Master  Plan  for  these
Kabupatens earmark here for 15,600 ha itu Karawang and 6,000 ha



- 17 -
in Bekasi. A substantial portion of this development with
5,500 ha in Karawang and 3,630 ha in Bekasi is already in the
implementation phase and various plants have already started
production.   Beside this, the general development in the
cities and villages along the Project have improved.
Especially transport intonsive construction materials from the
Cikarang-Karawang area such as tiles, bricks sand and gravel
became more competitive which increased its production by more
than 30X.
This development is also reflected in the continuous above
average increase of the traffic using the tollway with annual
rates of 30 - 50X.
The Government's policy to bring more development to the
regions by better access to Jakarta and to develop Jabotabek
more in east-west direction have been fully supported by the
Project.
=Design
The original design of 1978 was updated during the
implementation to match progressing development in the area.
Changes were mainly necessary in respect to better and more
accesses to the tollway, further improvements in the feeder
and adjacent local road system and design adjustments to cope
with reduced ROW available and to realize value engineering
opportunities. The necessity to have continuously competent
staff in the project to recognize in due time nscessary
adjustments in design, to prepare such revisions promptly and
monitor its proper implementation has been confirmed.
D.    2.    Other Studies - CIDP:
Due to limited budget, only studies issued and no evaluation
arise whether this studies is acceptable or give benefit to
borrower.
E.          Effectiveness of the RelationshiD between the Bank and the
Borrowe
Bank relationship with the Government of Indonesia and the
institutions involved in the project has been good.   Some
difficulties in communication may have occurred but did not
negatively effect this relationship.
F.          Evaluation of thg Performance of Cofinanciers  and Their
RelaUionship with the Borrower
The performance of the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development  (KFAED) was a pleasant experience.   Regular
competent missions of the Fund generally consisting of one
expert each for technical economic, legal and disbursement
matters visited the project for project monitoring.



- 18 -
The missions were mostly in a position to make direct
decisions in writing during their visits or to give their
decisions per telex shortly after their arrival in Kuwait.
Concerning disbursement and loan closing date, the Fund showed
full understanding for the actual needs of the project and was
ready to adjust disbursement schedules and loan closing date
to actual needs without big affairs.
The Fund's unability to continue operation after August 2nd
1990 was deeply regretted.
Jakarta, May 06, 1991
Directorate General of Highways



Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS IN THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR.
LOAN/CREDIT                                                  YEAR OF
LOAN/CREDIT         TITLE          AMOUNT                         PURPOSE                      APPROVAL STATUS
S MILLION
Cr 164-IND    First Highway             28.0 Highway rehabilitation and maintenance               1989  Completed
Cr 260-IND    Second Highway            34.0 Highway construction                                 1971  Completed
Cr 388-IND    Third Highway              14.0 Highway construction, maintenance and studies       1973  Completed
Ln. 1238-IND  Fourth Highway           130.0 Highway bettermen,technical assistance and           1976  Completed
institution building
Ln. 1898-IND  Fifth Highway            123.2 Highway betterment,bridge replacement, technical  1979  Completed
assistance, studies and institution building
Ln. 2049-IND  Jakarts-Cikampek .)       86.0 Construction of toll road, upgrading and studies  1981  Completed
I                                                                                                                            I   
Ln. 2083LIND  Rural Roads              100.0 District roads improvement and maintenance, and   1982  Completed
Dev-lopment                    institution building.
Ln. 2404-IN4  Highway Betterment       240.0 Highway betterment, rehabilitation, bridge           1984  Completed
replacement,t-chnical assistance and
institution buildi.g.
Ln. 2717-IND  Highway Maintenance      300.0 Highway maintenance, betterment, technical           1988  Completed
and Betterment                 assistance and institution building.
Ln. 2881-IND  Second Rural Roads       190.0 District roads improvement and maintenance, and   1987  Ongoing
development                    institution building.
Ln. 3133-IND  Highway Sector           350.0 Improving overall efficiency of the highway          1989  Ongoing
subsecto. with package of policy reforms,
civil works and technical assistance.
*) Subject of this PCR.



2. Project Time table
DATE       DATE        DATE
ITEN           PLANNED     REVISE)      ACTUAL
Identification                                   unclear
Preparation (First PB)      4/78                   4/78
Apprisadl mission           4/80                   4/80
Post Appraisal               -                    11/80
Loan Negotiation           6/81                    6/81
Board Approval              6/81                   9/81
Loan Signature             10/82                  10/81
Loan Effectiveness         2/82                    2/82
Loan Closing               12/87                   6/90                                                                   o
Loan Completion            6/87                   12/90
COIENTS:
In the first Project Brief, dated April, 1978, the following issue
were flagged:
(i) Staged construction related to traffic growth.
(ii) Level of Bank and co-financier's contribution, and
(iii) Linkage between thA proposed highway and the urban situation.
The following issues were raised with Government at Appraisal:
Ci) Toll road Scheme and Financing Plan. Hereunder, Goverrment's
contribution, Other sources of financing, the nature of tolls
Jasa Marga's financial situation and future. Toll road policy
(ii) The number of access points required.
(Mii) The traffic dispersal at the western terminus, i.e. in Jakart
(iv) The functions of the Provincial Public Works Agency, (DPUP)
(v) The Rock Asphalt Conporent, (Asbutar.'
(vi) Land Aquisition
During project implementation, land aquisition and local counterpa
that had to be        4.



3. Loan disbur4ements
Cumutative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (S mittion)
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Appraisal Estimate              0.0     0.9      7.9    28.2    51.2    73.0    84.1    85.0    85.0    85.0    85.0
Actual                          0.0     0.0      0.0      5.3    10.8    20.1    37.4    49.8    61.1    77.6    85.0
Actual as X of Estimate         0.0     0.0      0.0    18.8    21.1    27.5    44.5    58.6    71.9    91.3   100.0
Date of Final Disbursement:                                                                                        11/1/90
Closing Dates                                                                           12/31/87 12/31/88 12/31/89 06/30/90



4 Project Inpleterntation
APPRAISAL ESTI7ATE           ACTUAL
START      COMPLETE     START       COMPLETE
1. Civil works
A. Construction of Jakarta-Cikampek
Toll Road and the Improvements on the
Existing Road from Bekasi to Cikampek
1. Prequalification of Contractors   01/01/81    08/31/81    04/30/81    10/19/81
2. Tendering                          10/01/81    01/31/82    02/01/82    05/25/82
3. Receive and open bids, bid
evaluation, Bank concurrence and
award of contract                  02/01/82    06/15/82    05/25/82    End 1989
4. Construction
a. Section A of Toll road           08/01/82    12/31/85      10/83        2/88
Jakarta-Sekasi West
Bekasi West- Cibitung
b. Section B and C of Toll road    08/01/82    06/30/b       11/01/83      9/88
c. Existing road Bekasi-Cikampek   08/01/82    12/31/8!*   07/01/83       12/88
(other add. work)                                        06/87        06/90
11. Consulting Services
A.------ .--------- of Tol. road       07/01/82    07/31/87    10/01/83      6
A. Supervision of Toli road            07/01/82    07/31/87    10/01/83      6/1990
S. Supervision of Existing road        07701/82    01/31/86    10/01/83      6/199
C. Toll road management assistance    07/01/82    06/30/84    06/23/83    05/01/85
D. Regionat transport studies          07/01/82    06/30/84      11/84        11/86
(Other add. studies)                                         05/85        5/90



5.         Cost and
A. Project Costs
06/17/86
PROJECT COMPONENT              APPRAISAL ESTIMATES      REVISED ESTIMATES      ACTUAL EXPENDITLRES
LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
USS
I.CIVIL ORKIS
A. New HiNuay (Tott Road)   76.0   113.9   189.9    44.7    67.0  111.7    56.2    84.4   140.6
S. Existing Road            5.8      8.6    14.4     7.4    10.9   18.3      7.2    10.8    18.0
C. Land Protection                                                           0.4     0.7      1.1
Subtotal                 81.8   122.5   204.3    52.1    77.9  130.0    63.8    95.9   159.7
11. CONSULTING SERVICES
A. Supervision              6.3      6.4    12.7     4.3     4.3    8.6      6.0     6.1    12.1
S. Studies and Technical
Assistance                0.4     1.2     1.6     2.5      7.5   10.0     3.1      9.5    12.6
Sub total                 6.7      7.6    14.3     6.8    11.8   18.6      9.1    15.6    24.7
111. Contingencies
A. Physical                 8.9    13.0    21.9      5.6     8.3   13.9
3. Price                   45.7    38.3    84.0    33.4    28.0   61.4
Subtotal                 54.6    51.3   105.9    39.1    36.2   75.3
IV. Land Aquisition and
Property Copoensation     31.1      0.9    32.0    61.5      1.8   63.3    65.0     0.0    65.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST       174.2   182.3   356.5   159.4   127.8  287.2   137.9   111.5   249.4
Note: The Rupiah was devalued twice &urfng project
implemmtation. The value of the USS varied
from Rp 625 to Rp 1850.



B. Project Financing
Jure '86
SOURCE                LOA  AGREENENT        REVISED           FINAL
lEs       K        lESS      K        lSS      K
IBRD Loan:
CIVIL UOht
A. New Highway (Toll Road)    68.1       24.1      51.3     29.1      .4.7    38.9
B. Existing Road                9.8      48.0      16.5     64.0      12.8    71.1
C. Land Protection                                                     0.5    45.5
Subtotal                     77.9                67.8              68.0
COINSULTING SERVICES
A. Supervision                   4.9     25.0       5.2     44.0       4.4    36.4
B. Studies and Tedcical         2.2    100.0       10.0    100.0      12.6   100.0
Assistance
Subtotal                      7.1                15.2               17.0
Land Aquisition an
Property Caqpensation          0.0       0.0      0.0
lrqTAL                          85.0     23.3      83.0     28.9      85.0    34.1
.......... .. .. .... ............. ................................ .................................................... ..
KFAED Grant:
.............
CIVIL WORKS
A. New Highwy (Toll Road)    55.1        19.5      35.3     20.0      39.5    28.1
3. Existing Road                0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0
Subtotal                     55.1               35.3               39.5
CONSULTING SERVICES
A. Supervision                  4.9      25.0       4.1     34.5       4.2    34.7
S. Studies and Technical
Assistance
Subtotal                      4.9                4.1                4.2
Lend Aquisition and
Property Compensation          0.0                 0.0
TOTAL                          60.0      16.4      39.4     13.7     43.7    17.5
.... ..... .............................. ......................................................... .........................



Domestic (0O0):*
CIVIL WORKS
A. New Nighway (Toll Road)  159.3    56.4    89.7    50.9    46.4   33.0
B. Existing Road           10.5    51.0      9.3              5.2   28.9
C. Land Protection                                            0.6   54.5
Subtotal                 169.8            99.0             52.2
CONSULTING SERVICES
A. Supervision              9.7    50.0      2.5    29.0      3.5   28.9
B. Studies and Technical
Assistance
Subtotal                  9.7              2.5              3.5
Land Aquisftion and
Property Compensation     32.0   100.0    63.3   100.0    65.0  100.0
TOTAL                     211.5    57.9   164.8    57.4   120.7   48.4
GRAND TOTAL              356.5            287.2
*)Incl. USS 2,124,849 from Chemical Bank Asia Ltd. and USS13.856 mill.frcm AXIN Bank



- 26 -
6. Proiect Results
A. Traffic
Toll Road Sectio.              Appraisal Estimate              Actual
1990               1988        1990
Jakarta-Bekasi                         37553              29329       34899
Bekasi-Karawang                        20921               6854       10992
Karawang-Cikampek                      17596               4497       10188
Existing Road
Jakarta-Bekasi                         12186              34359       32682
Bekasi-Karawang                         9958              14215       15647
Karawang-Cikampek                       6754              14870       18550
Note: 1990 actual figures are a forecast based on short-term trends
B. Economic Rates of Return
Approval Estimate               Actual (1990)
Toll Road
Jakarta-Bekasi                 }         23Z                    High
Bekasi-Cikampek                }                                1oz
Existing Road                  Not in SAR                       High



- 27 -
7. Status of Covenants
Section                   Subject                  Deadline for       Status
L.A.                              ___    Compliance
3.05      Borrower shall acquire all land as   As required.   Complied
needed for the project and take                         with, with
appropriate steps to minimize                           delays.
relocation hardships.
3.06      Toll road to be operated and                  -          Complied
maintained efficiently. Borrower to                     with except
ensure that Jasa Marga has power,                       for
management and administration to                        deficiencies
operate and maintain project.                           in routine
Borrower to provide additional                          maintenance.
funds if required to cover any
financing shortfall.
3.07      Borrower to continue maintenance of           -          Complied
existing Jakarta Cikampek highway                       with except
and public roads around Bekasi and                      for
Karawang.                                               deficiencies
in routing
maintenance.
3.08       (A) Borrower to prepare and furnish  (A) 6 months   (A) Complied
to Bank a study of toll rates for    before            with partly
the project.                            opening         (B) Complied
(B) Borrower to monitor use of          first          with in
roads under project and take action  section            substance
to ensure that roads are used           (B) None       within
efficiently.                                            tolling
constraints
3.09      Dimensions and axle loads of             None            Not possible
vehicles to be consistent with                          until
design standards                                        recently
because of
lack of
appropriate
regulation
3.10      Borrower to take all actions             At project      Complied
necessary to introduce a highway        completion      with
safety program for the project
3.11      Borrower to carry out program for    None                Complied
training of Jasa Marga personnel                        with



- 29 -
R
B. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff weeks)
STAGE OF                 PLANNED  REVISED   FINAL  CONtENTS
PROJECT CYCLE
_..... . -  ----------- ----------     -  __ __ _ --  -_ _ _ _ _ ---   __ _ __ _ ----
Through Appraisal                                            87.6
Appraioal through Board Approval                             46.8
Board approval through Effectiveness
Supervision                                                    68
TOTAL                                                  202.4
NOTE: Preparation and supervision work was noruall1
co-ordinated vith other task work in the countru
and the number of staff-eeks is therefor not cosparable to
other projects carried out in isolation.



- 30 -
R
9. Missions
STAGE OF          MONTHI  NUMBER OF   DAYS       SPACIALIZATION   PERFORMANC    TYPES OF
PROJECT CYCLE         YEAR    PERSONS  IN FIELD  REPRESENTED al    RATING           PROBLEMS
THROUGH APPRAISAL
Identification 1)
Preparation 11
Preappraisal              11/79           2        21         H+E
Appraisal                  4180           4        25        H+E+TP
APPRAISAL THROUGH
BOARD APPROVAL
11             10/80            2       32         HtE
Post-appraisal            11/80           1        21          UP
BOARD APPROVAL THROUGH
EFFECTIVENESS
ii             IC/at            1       24          E
SUPERVISION  11
I               7182            1        a          H                  I
II               6/83            2        7         H+FA                I
III             9/93             1        2          H                  2 Fin, and Managerial
IV               5/84            1        6          H                  2 Financial
V              11/84            1        6          H                  1
VI              6/85            2         7        FA+H                1
VII              6/96            3        8         E+H+                2 Financial
VIII            10186            3         7       E+H+H                1
IX             11/97            1        9          H                  I
X              11/99            1         7         H                  I
XI             12/89            1        3          E                  1
XII              3/90            1        2          E                  1
a) En Economist, Ha Highuag Engineer, FAi FinanciaL fnillst
UPe Urban Planner and TPz Transportation Planner
11 Missions which were coabined with other Tasks.
-   -__  ----___ -    - -    ---------------------   -    ----__-_ _____ _______ __ ................................................................... __ ....____



- 31 -
Annex I
INDONESIA: JAKARTA - CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN NO 2049-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic and Financial Aspects of the Project
1.          The purpose of this annex is to discuss briefly (i) traffic
development; (ii) toll rates; and (iii) estimated ecunomic and financial rates
of return of the Project.
Traffic Developments
2.          Traffic forecasting bears great importance on the accuracy of
economic and financial analysis. Yet, traffic forecasts for toll roads in
Indonesia have proven unreliable. A comparison of the actual and forecasted
traffic volumes for five toll roads in Indonesia was done in 1990 by
consultants to Jasa Marga (Toll Road Investment Plan - TRIP - study by
SWEROAD). All these projections were undertaken in the 708, and only
Jakarta - Cikampek was envisaged as a toll facility. Of all, three (Jagorawi,
Jakarta - Tangerang, and Waru - Gempol) successfully forecasted initial
traffic volumes, but none correctly foresaw the traffic growths two were
under-proiected and one over-projected. For the remaining Jakarta - Cikampek
toll road and Semarang Bypass, traffic for the former was over-projected and
that for the latter was under-projected.
3.          Table 1 gives a comparison of actual and forecasted traffic
volumes between Jakarta and Cikampek in 1988. The comparison indicates that
the toll road traffic has been grossly over projected, namely, 9,442 actual
AADT vs. 25,620 forecasted (actual oitly 35Z of forecast). Accuracy of
forecasting, however, varies from different segments. While the actual
traffic on the Jakarta - Bekasi section, which is de facto a 4-lane urban
road, had approximated the forecast (73Z of the forecast), that on the
Bekasi - Cikampek section, most part of which is a 2-lane undivided intercity
highway, had been greatly over estimated, with the actual traffic only about
one-quarter of the projected. It must be noted however that the actual 1990
traffic was not ready for the PCR mission. The difference between actual and
projected traffic would have been less striking given the substantial traffic
growth between 1988 and 1990.
4.          The projection of the total traffic, however, was closer to the
reality (Table 1). While the traffic between Bekasi and Cikampek was slightly
over-projected by 172, that between Jakarta and Bekasi was actually grossly
under-projected by 52Z. Apparently the assumed high diversion rate of traffic
onto the toll road (over 80? of the total traffic) was the major source of
error that led to the unrealistic high toll traffic projection (Table 1).
This suggests that t'ere is (a) an urgent-need to study time values and
diversion rates in Indcnesia; and (b) a potential to improve the economic and
financial viability of the project, if a higher diversion rate were to be
achieved by Jasa M:rga.



- 32 -
Table I
Comparison of Forecasted and Actual Traffic Volumos 1988
Toll Road              Total Traffic
Dis-   Fore-           Actual    Fore-           Actual
tance  Casted  Actual  As X of  Caste  Actual  As X of  Diversion Rate
km    AADT    AADT   Foreca.   AADT    AADT   Foreca. Expected  Actual
Jakarta - Bekasf    13.4  31,408  23,041    73.4  37,761  57,400   152.0    83.2         40.1
Bekasi   Cibitung   10.2  27,898  10,578    37.9   32,778  30,578    93.3    85.1        34.6
Cibitung - Clkarang  6.6  27,308   6,411    23.5   33,733  26,411    78.3    81.0        24.3
Cikarang - Karawang 23.5  25,018   5,759    23.0   30,645  17,952    58.6    81.6        32.1
Karawang - Cikampek 18.1  20,217   4,623    22.9   23,424  13,793    58.9    86.3        33.5
Weighted Average
ENTIRE HIGHWAY:         25,620   9,442    34.5   30,740  26,837    82.8    83.5        33.6
Bekasi -Cikampek        24,292   6,322    25.6   29,129  19,824    67.0    83.6        32.1



- 33 -
Toll Rates and Toll Revenue
5.          The power of setting or modifying toll rates rests in the hands of
the President. The toll road authority (Jasa Marga) may initiate a tariff
proporal, but it must be agreed and sponsored by the Ministry of Public Works,
then by the Ministry of Finance, then by the State Secretary. Only by then
may the President sign a decree to enact the change. There are no detailed
state guidelines on setting the rates, but a rule is used that customers
should not be charged more than 752 of the user cost savings. (Consultants
for the TRIP study reported that rates ranged from 282 to 702 of the savings
for toll roads in Indonesia.
6.          Tariffs of Jakarta - Cikampek Highway have not been adjusted since
the toll road opened to traffic in mid-1988 until very recently. As of March
1991, two separate rates were imposed. On average, light vehicles (below 2.5
ton) were charged Rp 78 per vehicle per kilometer, and heavy ones were
Rp 124/vehicle/km. These rates wr:e the second highest of all the toll roads
in the country (the highest is the Jakarta - Cenkareng toll road).
7.          These tariffs might have been too high, judging from a low
diversion rate on each section of the Highway (332 rather than expected 83Z in
1988). In a country such as Indonesia, drivers' decision to use the toll road
is not likely to be based on the value of VOC savings, but on whether the
benefits of comfortability and time savings are worthwhile the out-of-pocket
cash payment. Given that the opportunity cost of timf. lb not high, demand may
be highly elastic (although this needs a serious investigation); if this is
true, a slightly lowered tariff may attract much more traffic, thus a higher
revenue could be generated than under the current tariff structure.
8.          The toll revenue collected from the Jakarta - Cikampek Highway has
been growing from Rp 21.6 billion (annually adjusted) in 1988 to Rp 31.6
billion in 1990, among the fastest growth seen in all the toll roads in
operat.on in Indonesia.  It is expected that within this year (1991) this road
will become the largest contributor to Jasa Marga's toll revenue, surpassing
that of tollroad Jagorawi.
Economic and Financial Rates of Return
9.          It must be borne in mind that due to the project delay (the
Highway was only open to traffic around mid-1988), sufficient data have not
yet been generated to evaluate the economic and financial impacts of the
project. The following exercise is merely to re-estimate some econom4c and
financial indicators of the project, namely preliminary economic and financial
rates of return of the project.
10.         Extensive cost and design changes, and the decision to expand the
Cibitung - Cikampek section from 2-lane undivided to 4-lane divided soon after
opening (rather than 5 or 6 years later as-expected at appraisal), make a
thorough reappraisal of the project extremety difficult, if not impossible.
First, the project costs for investment and maintenance, and when they were
(or will be) incurred, have borne little resemblance to the original plan.
Second, benefits would have to be completely re-estimated, because among other



- 34 -
things, revisions of the project have drastically altered the traffic pattern
and volumes and two major devaluations have changed relative values
substantially. Thus, a serious reappraisal would require efforts equivalent
to a true appraisal, far beyond the resources allowed for a regular post-
construction reappraisal.
11.         In order to overcome this resource constraint, this annex uses a
simplified reappraisal methodology prepared by the consultants of the TRIP
study. Rather than using the actual data and information, the reappraisal is
based on comparing nationally standardized costs and benefits (VOC,
construction, O&M, and time) for "without" and "with project situations. In
addition, the construction "costs" are not recorded at the time they actually
incurred but on the basis of a simplified schedule. It is in particular
assumed that the widening of the Cibitung-Cikampek section of the toll road
would be carried out at a more appropriate time.
12.         In re-estimating the economic IRR for the toll road, Jakarta -
Bekasi (14 km) and Bekasi - Cikampek (58.5 km) sections are handled
separately. For the J-B section, although the actual traffic was only 73Z of
the forecasted, yet the actual total corridor traffic was 502 more than
expected. Today, the traffic has exceeded the old road handling capacities
(the volume-capacity ratio of the existing road exceeded 1.0 perhaps five
years ago). Without the toll road, traffic in this area would most likely to
be in a complete chaos. In retrospect, therefore, the toll road construction
is h4-hly economically justified. Since the "without" situation cannot be
sensibly defined, the economic IRR is not re-estimated. It is self-evident
that a very high economic rate of return for this part of the road is most
certainly attained.
13.         The re-estimation of Economic IRR for the Bekasi - Cikampek
section is based on readjusted traffic projections (Annex 2). Compared to the
original SAR forecast, the main differences are that the heavy vehicles
(trucks and buses) traffic on the toll road has been greatly reduced while the
light traffic has been much increased to reflect actual current traffic.
14.         Based on the new traffic forecasting, the EIRR is re-estimated at
1OZ, far below the SAR estimate for the entire toll road (23Z). This is
largely due to the fact that foreseeable traffic demand could have been
reasonably well accommodated until about 2005 by improving the existing road
widened to 4 lanes around 1993-94 which would have been much cheaper than
building the new toll road (this alternative is the "without" project scenario
in the reevaluation).
15.         The net present value at 15Z discount rate (SAR did not calculate)
is negative Rp 95 billion.
16.         By using the methodology of the TRIP study, and based on the same
scenario adopted for new economic IRR calculations, the financial internal
rates of return are re-estimated. For the-entire toll road, the FIRR is 142,
with a net present value of negative Rp 18 billion, at 15? discount rate, or
positive Rp 115 billion at 1OZ discount rate. The FIRRs are also re-estimated
for Jakarta - Bekasi and Bekasi - Cikampek sections separately. The estimated



- 35 -
FIRR for the J-B section is 21Z, with the net present value 152 discount rate
Rp 29 billion and that 3102 discount rate Rp 83 billion. For the Bekasi -
Cikampek section, the FIRR is 11.5Z, with a negative net present value (@15Z)
of Rp 47 billion and that 102 Rp 32 billion. (The financial IRRs were not
estimated in the SAR.)
17.         The above analysis indicates that the economic acceptability of
the project, in retrospect, is mixed. While the Jakarta - Bekasi section of
the toll road h&s achieved, and will sustain a high economic rate of return
(not quantifiable), construction of the Bekasi - Cikampek section appears to
have been premature. The expansion of this section into a 4-lane divided
highway is even less justified if purely economic and financial criteria were
used. The overall financial viability of the p:oject is also mixed. While
re-estimated FIRR for the Jakarta - Bekasi section has a high return (21Z,
constant price), that for the Bekasi - Cikampek is only 11.5Z. As a result,
the re-estimated FIRR for the entire toll road is brought down to 142, which
is only on the border line of being accepted, if the real cost of capital in
Indonesia is taken into account.



- 36 -
Attachment 1
INDONESIA: Toll Roads and Bridges in Operation.
Main Road   Access Road   Starting Year
No.  Road Link                       k.m.         k.m.        Of ODeration
1   Jagoravi                        47.0           9.0           1978
2   Citarum Bridge                   0.2           0.7           1979
3   Tallo Lama Bridge                0.2           0.7           1981
4   Kapuas and Landak Bridges        0.6           2.0           1982
5   Mojokerto Bridge                 0.2           0.6           1982
6   Semarang Artery (Sec. A&B)    15.0              --           1983
7   Ciujung and Serang Bypass       12.0            --           1984
8   Jakarta - Tangerang             27.0           6.0           1984
9   Cengkareng Access               14.0            --           1985
10   Belmera                         34.0           9.0           1986
11   Surabaya - Gempol               43.0           6.0           1986
12   Jakarta - Cikampek              73.0          11.0           1988
13   Cavang - Tomang                 17.0            --           1989
14   North - South Link              17.0            --           1990
15   Cakung - Cikunir                 9.0          45.0           1990
T O T A L                      309.3          89 9
Source: Jasa Marga



- 37 -
Attachment 2
Table A
Re-forecasted Toll Road and Corridor Traffic
TOLL ROAD TRAFFIC                          TOTAL TRAFFIC
AADT          DIVER-  CAPA-                         AADT
YEAR  LIGHT  HEAVY  TOTAL   SION   CITY    VCR           LIGHT  HEAVY  TOTAL
Jakarta - Bekasi:
1988  24980   4349  29329   0.46  71334   0.41           48403  16286  6888
199   28249   6650  34899   0.62  71334   0.49           61862  16219  67581
2Qe0  44886  10071  64406   0.53  71334   0.76           77780  24682 102842
2010  90969  18928 109897   0.67  71834   1.54          146786  48a64 193140
GSkasi - Karawang:
1988   4757   2097   6854   0.33  71334   0.10           11374   9689  21063
1990   7198   3799  10992   0.41  71n34   0.16           14385  12254  26689
2000  14190   7987  22177   0.47  71334   0.31           26540  21686  46926
2010  83128  20844  63972   0.60  71334   0.76           48939  41688  90627
Karawana - C1kaompk:
1988   336,.'t  1132   4497   0.23  71334   0.06         10652   8716  19867
1990   8966   8283  10138   0.26  71334   0.14           16806  12932  28788
2000  14437   7578  22010   0.44  71334   0.31           27240  22287  49627
2010  86909  21826  67734   0.62  71334   0.81           51299  41972  93271
VCR * Volume-Capacity ratio
A^urce: SWEROAD, 1990.
Table B
Original Traffic Forecasting
TOLL ROAD             ALTERNATIVE ROAD      TOTAL CORRIDOR
DIVER-
YEAR  LIGHT  HEAVY  TOTAL   SION   LIGHT  HEAVY  TOTAL  LIGHT  HEAVY  TOTAL
Jakarta - Sokai:
1985   9710  16142  24858   0.67    4966   7191  12156  14675  22388  37009
1990  13960  23603  87665   0.76   6504    7148  12186  1899   30748  49789
2000  19976  38698   56907   0.77    5823  11161  16984  26798  48094  73891
Bekaui - Karawang:
1986   3670   7434  11004   0.58    4416   6172   9588   7986  12606  20592
1990   6926  13994  20921   0.68    4409  6548   9956  11385  19648  80878
2000   9938  23428  33861   0.80    8068   5360   8424  13006  28779  41785
Karawang - Cikampek:
1986   3180  6578    8976   0.69    3267   3027   6294   $466   8816  16271
1990   8068   9538  17696   0.72    3389   8371   6740  11432  12905  24386
2000   8342  17617  25968   0.82    2138   3729   6867  10480  21346  31825
Source: Re-calculat d from SAR, p.60.



- 38 -
Attachment 3
Re-estimation of Economic Internal Rate of Return for the Bekasi-Cikampek
Section of the Toll Road
(Rp million)
Without Situation                 With Situation             NET
Cons-              Total      Cons-               Total      CASH
Year  truction   RUC+MC    Costs   truction RUC+MC+TC   Costs         FLOW
1987      5796               5796       66468              66468   -60672
1988      5796               5796       66468              66468   -60672
1989      5520               5520       34667              34667   -29147
1990              155124   155124                159526   159526    -4402
1991              163951   163951                167981   167981    -4030
1992              173279   173279                176884   176884    -3605
1993      9639   183139   192778                 186259   186259      6519
1994      9639   193560   203199                 196130   196130      7069
1995      9180   204538   213718                 202492   202492    11226
1996.             207204   207204                231165   231165   -23961
1997              233602   233602       25126   263898   289024   -55422
1998              263363   263363       25126   301266   326392   -63029
1999              296915   296915       13104   343914   357018   -60103
2000             3<'71-9*  334742                369892   369892   -35150
2001              365538   365538                398892   398892   -33354
2002              399168   399168                430165   430165   -30997
2003              435891   435891                463890   463890   -27999
2004              475993   475993                500258   500258   -24265
2005              519870   519870                539400   539400   -19530
2006              652333   652333                587676   587676    64657
2007              818547   818547                640273   640273   178274
2008            1027113  1027113                 697578   697578   329535
2009             1288822  1288822                760011   760011   528811
2010             1617084  1617084                828196   828196   788888
NPV @15Z   -96173
NPV Q10Z   -13244
IRR      9.62
RUC - Road User Costs
MC - Road Maintenance Costs
TOC = Toll Operatlons Costs
WITHOUT SITUATION:  Existing road widened tO lOm undivided pavement standard
by 1990; widened to 15m divided pavement stmdard by 1996.
WITH SITUATION: 2-lane toll road is opened to traffic in 1990; widened to
4-lane divided standard by 2000.



- 39 -
Attachment 4a
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return:
The Entire Jakarta  - Cikampek Toll Road
(Rp million)
Toll               Total        NET
Cons-  Mainte-  Collec-    Total        Toll      CASH
Total   Light  Heavy    Year  truction   nance          tion      Costs  Revenue       FLOW
1987   104870                         104870             -!f4870
10448    8221   2228    1988   104870                           104870             -104870
11003    8569   2434    1989    52436                            52436              -62436
11599    8940   2869    1990                  1103    1046         2148    29736    27587
12241    9334   2907    1991                  1184    1100         2264    3146    29197
12932    9764   3179    1992                  1230    1159        2389    33323    30934
13878   10200   3478    1993                  1301    1222         2523    35337    32814
14482   10875   3807    1994                  1378    1291         2e68    37614    34848
15363   11184   4189    1996                  1480    1385         2826    39874    37049
17328   12569   4789    1998                  1848    1533         3182    45056    41873
19576   14113   5482    1997    29836         1882    1725       33422    60968    17533
22131   15688   8283    1998    29835         2106    1943        33883    57880    23796
25041   17853   7188    1999    14918         2382    2191        19491    65344    45864
28354   20098   8269    2000                  2897    2474         6171    74088    88916
30835   21787   9049    2001                  2933    2886         5819    80822    76003
33637   23821   9918    2002                  3190    2918         8108    87744    81638
36480   25611  10869    2003                  3470    3187         6837    95511    88874
39s87   27771  11918    2004                  3775    3441         7218   103981    98786
43182   30116  13087    2005                  4107    3739         7848   113218   105371
48992   32858  14333    2008                  4470    4084         8534   123298   114783
61144   36419  15725    2007                  4885    4415         9283   134291   125008
55870   38415  17255    2008                  5295    4804        10099   148284   138184
60805   41888  18939    2009                  5765    5225        10990   159374   148385
65988   45182  20785    2010                  6276    5882        11967   173812   181856
NPV 015%   -18307
NPV 010%   114742
IRR     14.0%



- 40 -
Attachment 4b
Calculation of Financial Int rnal Rate of Return:
The Jakarta - Bekasi Section
(Rp million)
Toll               Total      NET
Cons-  Mainte-  Collec-    Total       Toll     CASH
Total   Light  Heavy    Year  truction   nance       tion      Costs  Revenue      FLOW
1987     28012                         26012             '28012
29329   24980   4349   1988      26012                         28012             -28012
30043   25422   4821   1989      13008                         13008             -13008
30782   26872   4910   1990                 6e6      518        1083    14909    13828
31646   26330   5218   1991                 679      630        111o    15808    14198
32338   26798   6642   1992                 694      643        1137    16722    14686
33169   27270   6889   1993                 60?      667        1168    18163    14987
34010   27753   6257   1994                 626      671        1198    16600    15406
34899   28249   6850   1996                 841      588        1227    17089    16843
38142   30918   7228   1998                 701      639        1340    18849    17310
41688   33834   7862   1997                 7e8      897        1463    20375    18912
46680   37028   8632   1998                 837      781        1698    22281    20883
49794   40624   9270   1999                 915      831        1746    24321    22676
54428   44366  10071   2000                1000      907        1907    28674    24668
58388   47869  10727   2001                1072      972        2046    28498    28461
62836   51210  11426   2002                1160     1042        2193    30567    28384
67194   66026  12169   2003                1234     1117        2362    32788    30418
72088   69125  12981   20C4                1324     1198        2522    36139    32817
77334   83529  13806   2006                1420     1284        2705    37e82    34977
82965   68282  14703   200                1624     1377        2901    40410    37508
89008   73348  15860   2007                1635     1477        3112    43336    40?EA
95-'92   78812  16880   2008               1754     1584        3338    48474    43138
102460   84684  17788   2009                1882     1698        3580    49840    46280
109897   90989  18928   2010                2019     1821        3839    63443    49804
NPV 016X    29179
NPV O10X    82713
IRR     21.0X



- 41 -
Attachment 4c
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return:
The Bekasi - Cikampek Section
(Rp million)
Toll               Total       NET
Cons-  Mainto-  Collec-    Total       Toll      CASH
Total   Light  Hapvl    Year  truction   nance        tion      Costs  Revonue      FLOW
1987    78868                         78868             -78868
6930    4210   1720    1988    78868                           78868             -78868
6446    4536   1910    1989    39429                           39429             -39429
7008    4888   2120    1990                 638      627        1006    14826    13761
7821    6287   2364    1991                 585      689        1154    16153    14999
8288    6676   2813    1992                 838      615        1251    17801    18360
9018    8116   2901    1993                 892      686        1367    19186    17827
9809    8588   3221    1994                 763      720        1473    20913    19441
10876    7100   3676    1996                 819      779        1699    22804    21208
12347    8188   4181    1998                 948      896        1842    28406    24654
14283    9393   4890    1997    29835       1098    1028        31969    30580    -1379
18524   10804   6720    1998    29836       1288    1182        32286    35419      3133
19117   12427   6890    1999    14918       1487    1360        17746    41023    23278
22116   14290   7826    2000                1897    1657         3284    47611    44247
24242   16696   8847    2001                1861    1713         3574    62126    48662
28573   17018   9665    2002                2040    1874         3913    67187    53274
29130   18672  10668    2003                2238    2060         4286    82743    68468
31934   20288  11686    2004                2461    2243         4894    88841    84148
36009   22118  12891    2005                2887    2454         6141    76536    70394
38383   24138  14246    2008                2948    2688         5632    82887    77264
42083   28342  16741    2007                3230    2941         8171    90966    84784
48140   28747  17393    2008                3641    3220         8782    99810    93048
60691   31371  19220    2009                3883    3627         7410   109534   102124
66466   34226  21230    2010                4266    3861         8118   120169   112061
NPV 016X   -47486
NPV  1O0O    32029
IRR     11.5X



- 42 -
Attachment 4d
Assumptions for Financial IRR Calculation:
o The same traffic forecasting is used as in re-estimating EIRR.
O Basic tariffs: Rp 90/km for light vehicles and Rp 120/km for heavy
vehicles. No allowance for real tariff increase is made.
O Construction cost: Rp 3,370 million/km for 2-lane road construction;
Rp 1,275 million/km for 2-lane to 4-lane road expansion. Construction
cost is assumed to spread over three years, with the following
distribution:
First and second years - 40Z;
the third year - 20Z.
o The maintenance cost: 1312*AADT/1000000 Rp million/km.
The toll operations cost: (0.765 + 1176.5*AADT/1000000) Rp million/km.
Paramneters used in calculating maintenance and toll operations costs are
obtained through regression on 7' ' data.



- 39
Attachmc.,t 4a
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return:
The Entire Jakarta  - Cikampek Toll Road
(Rp million)
Toll               Total        NET
Cons-  Mainte-  Collec-    Total        Toll      CASH
Total   Light  Heavy    Year  truction   nance          tion      Costs  Revenue      FLOW
1987   104870                         104870             -104870
10448    8221   2228    1988   104870                           104870             -104870
11003    8569   2434    1989    52436                            62435              -52436
11599    8940   2669    1990                  1103    1046        2148    29735    27687
12241    9334   2907    1991                  1164    1100         2264    31461    29197
12932    9754   3179    1992                  1230    1159         2389    33323    30934
13678   10200   3478    1993                  1301    1222         2623    36337    32814
14482   10876   3807    1994                  1378    1291         2e88    37514    34848
16353   11184   4169    1995                  1460    13S5         2826    39874    37049
17328   12569   4769    1996                  1848    1633         3182    46056    41873
19575   14113   5482    1997    29836         1882    1725       33422    50986   17633
22131   16888   8283    1998    29836         2105    1943       33883    67880    23798
26041   17863   7188    1999    14918         2Z82    2191        19491    86344    45864
28364   20098   8259    2000                  2897    2474         5171    74086    68916
30836   21787   9049    2001                  2933    2888         5819    80822    75003
33537   23821   9918    2002                  3190    2916         8108    87744    81838
36480   26811  10889    2003                  3470    3187         6837    96511    88874
39687   27771  11916    2004                  3775    3441         7216   103981    98765
43182   30115  13087    2006                  4107    3739         7848   113218   106371
48992   32658  1431i    2008                  4470    4084         8634   123298   114763
61144   36419  17.6    2007                  4886    4418         9283   134291   126008
55670   38416  172S5    2008                  5295    4804        10099   148284   138184
80805   41888  18939    2009                  6786    6226        10990   169374   148386
68988   46182  20786    2010                  8275    6882        11957   173812   181866
NPV 016X   -18307
NPV 010%   114742
IRR     14.OX



- 40 -
Attachment 4b
Calculation of Financial Internal Rate of Return:
The Jokarts - Bokasi Section
(Rp million)
Toll               Total       NET
Cons-  Mainte-  Collec-    Total        Toll      CASH
Total   Light  Heavy    Yoar  truction   nance         tion     Costs  Revenue       FLOW
1987     26012                          28012             -26012
29329   24980   4349   1988       26012                          28012             -26012
30043   25422   4821   1989       13008                          13008             -13008
30782   25872   4910   1990                  686       618        1083    14909    13826
31648   28330   6218   1991                  679       630        1llo    16308    14198
32338   28798  5642   1992                   694       643        1137    16722    14686
33169   27270   6889   1993                  609       667        1166    18163    14987
34010   27763   8257   1994                  826       671        1198    18600    15406
34899   28249   6850   1996                  841      s68         1227    17069    16843
38142   30916   7228   1996                  701       839        1340    18649    17310
41888   33834   7852   1997                  768       897        1463    20376    18912
46680   37028   8632   1998                  837       761        1698    22281    208683
49794   40624   9270   1999                  916       831        1746    24321    22576
54426   44366  10071   2000                 1000       907        1907    28674    24688
58388   47659  10727   2001                 1072       972        2046    29498    26451
82836   61210  11425   2002                 1150      1042        2193    30667    28364
87194   55026  12189   2003                 1234      1117        2362    32788    30416
72088   69126  12981   2004                 1324      1198        2522    35139    32817
77334   83629  13805   2006                 1420      1284        2706    37882    34977
82986   88282  14703   2008                 1624      1377        2901    40410    37508
89008   73348  16860   2007                 1835      1477        3112    43335    40?"^
95492   78812  18880   2008                 1764      1584        3338    48474    43138
102460   84884  17786   2009                 1882      1898        3580    49840    48260
109897   90989  18928   2010                 2019      1821        3839    63443    49804
NPV 01X    29179
NPV 010X    82713
IRR     21.0X



- 41 -
Attachmnt 4c
Calculation of Financial Int*rn'l Rat, of Roturn:
The Bekaoi - Clkampek Section
(Rp million)
Toll               Total       NET
Cons-  Mainta-  Collec-    Total        Toll      CASH
Total   Light  Heavy    Year  truction   nance         tion      Costs  Revenue      FLOW
1987    78868                          78868             -78858
6930    4210   1720    1988    78868                            78868             -78868
6448    4536   1910    1989    39429                            39429             -39429
7008    4888   2120    1990                  638      627        1065    14826    13761
7621    6287   2364    1991                  S86      6e9        1164    81613    14999
8288    6876   2813    1992                  636      616        1251    17601    16360
9018    8115   2901    1993                  892      868        1357    19186    17827
9809    8588   3221    1994                  763      720        1473    20913    19441
10876    7100   3676    1996                  819      779        1699    2.:804    21208
12347    8168   4181    1998                  948      896        1842    28406    24604
14283    9393   4890    1997    29835        1098    1028       31969    30580    -1379
16824   10804   6720    1998    29836        1288    1182       32286    36419       3133
19117   12427  e890    1999    14918         1487    1380       17746    41023    23278
22116   14290   7826    2000                 1897    1687         3264    47611    44247
24242   15696   8647    2001                 1881    1713         3674    62126    48662
28673   17018   9556    2002                 2040    1874         3913    67187    63274
29130   18572  10658    2003                 2238    2060         4286    82743    68468
31934   20288  11868    2004                 2461    2243        4894    88841    84148
35009   22118  12891    2006                 2e87    2464         6141    75636    70394
38383   24138  14246    2006                 2948    2886         6832    82887    77264
42083   28342  16741    2007                 3230    2941         8171    90966    84784
48140   28747  17393    2008                 3641    3220         8762    99810    93048
60691   31371  19220    2009                 3883    3627         7410   109534   102124
66466   34226  21230    2010                 4256    3881         8118   120189   112061
NPV 016X   -47488
NPV O@OX    32029
IRR     11.65



- 42 -
Attachment 4d
Assumptions for Financial IRR Calculation:
o The same traffic forecasting is used as in re-estimating EIRR.
O Basic tariffs: Rp 90/km for light vehicles and Rp 120/km for heavy
vehicles. No allowance for real tariff increase is made.
O Construction cost: Rp 3,370 million/km for 2-lane road construction;
Rp 1,275 million/km for 2-lane to 4-lane road expansion.  r'nstruction
cost is assumed to spread over three years, with the follou.ng
distribution:
First and second years - 40Z;
the third year - 20Z.
o The maintenance cost: 1312*AADT/1000000 Rp million/km.
The toll operations cost: (0.765 + 1176.5*AADT/1000000) Rp million/km.
Parameters used in calculating maintenance and toll operations costs are
obtained through regression on ".P data.



BED 15036
id^V   R}   fXP  IEu                              s{t                                     -          ,,r                         I             .0OtA  .             JANUARY Rol 
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK CORRIDOR PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATtON
-     PR-SDCO *AOUOCT R0AD CATUCTION
TRA   Ii= DWAYS
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PR CI~~~~740 450,T3-.. O V O   w 5 t. r u o o k M   ,o ,n..'o.  9-4.N D ; 
o..',..&...'., '44490I"es e4,  lOMJT,f It.e A 00 8                                                                                                                                                                                 M
O; ALIMAN2N                                                                                                                                                                                                       02031AT    pa, A   .  {  .4 r--g            ,vUPl PZET *  rL @
Av                                                                                                                                            JAKARrA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIKAMPEK  HIGHWAY DFTAILS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nlNIA HO-Y
a-.= -   -                                   0O MlA                                                      _                         |14 A
,__.                       _A    .                      -                                        ._J                  .                               _ 



