Document of                       FILE  COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3111-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 19, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00            =  Rp 625
Rp 100             =  US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M)  =  US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
DCH              -   Directorate General of Highways
DKI              -   Special Provincial Government of Jakarta
DPUP             -   Provincial Public Works Agency
KFAED            -   Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
GOI              -   Government of Indonesia
MHA              -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC              -   Ministry of Communications
MPW              -   Ministry of Public Works
ODA              -   Official Development Assistance
P.T. Jasa Marga -   The public toll road corporation
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $85 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 10.6% p.a.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would increase road capacity between
Jakarta and Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by
construction of a new toll road and by improvements to the
existing highway. Construction would include interchanges
and spur roads for access to the new toll facility. The
project would provide essential road capacity on the major
route from the capital of Jakarta to virtually all of Java
and would thus provide substantial benefits to the regional
economy.  Also included in the project are consultancy
services for toll road management and for regional transport
planning. There are no unusual technical or other risks
associated with this project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipicnts only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estiuiated Costs:                                 Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million)…
Civil works
Construction of toll road   76.0    113.9    189.9
Upgrading existing road        5.8       8.6      14.4
Land acquisition and
associated costs              31.1       0.9      32.0
Consulting services
Supervision of civil works   6.3         6.4      12.7
Other                            .4      1.2       1.6
Base cost                      119.6    131.0    250.6
Physical contingencies            8.9     13.0      21.9
Price contingencies             45.7      38.3      84.0
Total costs                    174.2    182.3    356.5
Financing Plan:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) 
IBRD                             -        85.0      85.0
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development                    -        60.0      60.0
Government                       174.2    37.3    211.5
Total                         174.2   182.3    356.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY           1982   1983   1984   1985    1986    1987
Annual             0.9    7.0   20.3   23.0    21.8    12.0
Cumulative         0.9    7.9   28.2   51.2    73.0    85.0
Rate of Return: 23%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3376-IND, dated August 19, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TIlE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $85 million to help
finance the Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 10.6% p.a.
Parallel with the proposed Bank loan, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development is providing $60 million to help finance part of the cost of the
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The popula-
tion density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated to be $405./3
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (No. P-3065-IND), circulated under cover
of R81-125, dated May 13, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors
on June 2, 1981.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1980.



- 2 -
4.        The economy has grown at an annual rate of 6-8% for over a decade -
the highest sustained growth rate of any low incoime country. Until about the
end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74),
this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the severe
dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective
action to restore and then maintain macroeconomnic stability, liberalize
the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a major
rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate
doubled to 18% of GDP. Since then growth has been greatly assisted by
international developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices
and the commodity boom. The oil enclave is of particular importance to the
structure of the economy. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in
1973 to $7.0 billion in 1979, while physical production increased less than
20%. This has had a direct effect on the balance of payments - in 1979/80 a
current account surplus of $2.0 billion was recorded for the first time
since independence. Although production linkages with other sectors have
been very weak, the oil enclave has had an important influence on overall
growth through the infusion of foreign exchange resources into the economy.
Since a significant fraction of these resources accrue to GOI through
taxation of oil companies' profits, the public sector has been one of the
major channels for the increased expenditure. Central Government expendi-
tures have been rising at about 15% annually. These factors contributed to
a growth rate of over 8% for GDP, with 12% for construction and 9% for
services. blanufacturing has also grown rapidly, at over 12% p.a., but it
still accounts for less than 10% of GDP, compared with 13% for all low
income countries. In agriculture, growtlh has been largely determined by
supply factors and has been almost 4% p.a.; as a result its share of GDP has
declined from 40% to 30%. Despite the favorable general indicators, the
economy remains very underdeveloped and the non-oil current account is still
in persistent deficit. To lay the foundations for a post-oil future, a
broad-based expansion of industrial production and of both industrial and
agricultural exports will be required in the 1980s.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Despite the rapid growth in output, equivalent to a growth rate of
per capita income of about 5% p.a., Indonesia remains an extremely poor
country. Almost 50% of the population, some 70 million persons, are esti-
mated to be living in conditions of absolute poverty, of which 50 million
live in rural Java. There are conflicting views on the extent to which the
poor have shared in economic growth. However, the 1970 and 1976 National
Household Expenditure Surveys suggest a rate of growth of per capita income
of 3.5-5.2% p.a. for the poorest 40% of households, and a reduction in
poverty incidence of at least 10% between the two years. Rural urban income
disparities have widened, while intra-rural and interregional income distri-
bution appear to have improved. Although a large majority of the poor live
in rural areas, especially on Java, where landless laborers form a large



- 3 -
proportion of the population, poverty is also serious in urban areas, where
it is compounded by poor and overcrowded living conditions.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the
1970s. In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and
about 6% in urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence
amongst young educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary
school education. The changing structure of employment, though very
different from that of production, is a reflection of the same underlying
factors.  In the period 1971-78 manufacturing provided only 6% of the
increase in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-
intensive agriculture and tertiary sectors provided 42%o and 52% respectively.
Agriculture still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the
period. Because the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth,
thereby encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of
industrial employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However,
in the future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance for the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also
clear that increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in
cash crop production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Indonesia's basic social indicators directly reflect the prevalence
of poverty. While impressive progress has been made in primary education,
where universal primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future,
secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-developed - this
is one of the main reasons for the current manpower shortage. Ilealth
indicators are also generally poor: life expectancy is 53 years compared
with 57 for all low-incorae countries and 62 for Thailand and the Philippines.
Indonesia's infant mortality rate of 120 per thousand is almost double the
rates prevailing in these two South East Asian countries. Every year almost
700,000 infants less than one year old die. Low incomes, inadequate water
and sanitation facilities - only 12% of the population has access to safe
water - and a relatively high population to physician ratio are key factors
explaining the situation. The area of family planning, however, has been a
notable success. As a consequence of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and
Bali, where almost 50% of married women in the productive age group practice
modern methods of contraception.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the
country is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a
viable long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs
situation of the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year



- 4 -
Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84), are equity, growth
and the maintenance of national stability. The fact that Indonesia's
resource position is likely to be favorable for most of the 1980s presents
the country with an unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to
bring about the adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.        Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run development, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation. This emphasizes the importance of a distribution
of incremental expenditure in favor of improving sectoral supply responses.
In particular, it is important that a reasonable expansion of credit to the
private sector be maintained - in the past this has been excessively squeezed
to maintain monetary stability. This could entail a slower rate of expansion
of GOI expenditure.
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment is
the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries and
was accomnpanied by a system of export certificates (tax rebates) to provide
additional incentives. However, by mid-1980 over half of the gains in
competitiveness in manufactured exports and import substitutes had been eroded
by domestic inflation. In addition, private industry continues to be
constrained by cumbersome administrative procedures, a wide variation in
rates of effective protection, and limitations on the availability of credit.
These require effective policy reforms. The favorable resource position
provides an opportunity for rationalizing the tariff structure and improving
the investment climate, accompanied, where necessary, by selected adjustment
assistance to adversely affected industries. Import liberalization would
also help to maintain short-run stability to the extent that it takes
pressure off tight domestic markets. The construction industry requires
special attention, as limited capacity is currently a critical constraint on
new investment and is contributing to higher inflationary pressures. To
encourage its rapid expansion, measures should be taken to provide additional
finance, through the banking system and equity participation, and to increase
the availability of skills, through training and relaxation of restrictions
on the use of foreign specialists.



- 5 -
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food
production and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a
record level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a
decade earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market
environment will be the main determinants of further expansion in food
production.  Tree crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age
structure of the trees is now very old, but GOI has a highly ambitious
program of rehabilitation and replanting. This will require substantial
investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution and
marketing.
12.       Human resources development is of central importance.  The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of unemployment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major
mismatch between supply and demand at this level.  In the short run there is
scope for better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training
schemes, while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance
fellowships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. The
poor health indicators provide a strong justification for the use of incre-
mental resources in this sector. Htowever, increased outlays on health
infrastructure and urban and rural water supply will have to be complemented
by the development of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling
health problems, involving the participation of local communities. The
successful family planning program provides a good model.
13.       Other sectors also require effective policy action.  In the energy
sector the rapid growth in consumption of oil and LNG accounts for almost all
of the consumption of modern sources of energy and could significantly reduce
the resource surplus. Diversification will require the development of hydro-
power, geothermal and coal resources, and a reduction in the high rate of
subsidization of petroleum products. The transport sector is a major
beneficiary of the fuel subsidy; this has shifted demand away from more
fuel-efficient systems.
14.       The activity of the public sector will have a critical influence
on long-run development. The oil windfall has substantially improved GOI
revenue: total revenue increased from Rp 5 trillion in 1978/79 to Rp 14
trillion budgeted for 1981/82, of which 70% derives from oil; GOI expenditures
now account for around 30% of GDP. A significant fraction of incremental
resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to public and private
consumption in the form of higher civil service and military salaries from
initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities.  Subsidies on petroleum
products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly to a budgeted level of
over $3 billion in 1981/82.  Although this has shielded the economy from



- 6 -
sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to be limited and
consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not been the very
poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the extent that
it now appears that the financial constraint is often less important than
nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled manpower, the
capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative capability.
The administrative framework for project implementation was greatly improved
in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation procedures and the
adoption of post-auditing practices. However, restrictions in eligibility of
certain smaller contracts to small firms controlled by economically weak
groups is likely to delay local project implementation. Wider issues of
administration, including the question of decentralization, are also under
review. An additional problem affecting the productivity of public investment
is inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure, of particular importance
in irrigation and roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI-s budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to
maintain the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since
expenditure from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expen-
diture from oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP
actually declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and
1980/81. It is critical that the capacity of the tax system be increased
through expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving
administration. There is also great scope for mobilization of resources
through reduction of the budgetary subsidies on petroleum and other products.
A steady rise in domestic petroleum prices to the international level during
the 1980s would have a major impact on budget savings as well as encouraging
alternative energy uses and eliminating distortions.
16.       External financing of GOI expenditure is budgeted at $2.4 billion in
1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40% in 1978/79.
Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about $15 billion at
the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external public debt totalled
almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the
principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. New commitments in 1980 were almost equal
to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank-s 1980 economic memorandum on
Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are estimated to have reached
$1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased availability of foreign exchange,
in the near term capital inflows are not required on resource grounds. How-
ever, during the disbursement periods of projects currently being considered,
a resource gap will re-emerge in Indonesia. In addition, there is still an
urgent need for support of policy and institutional changes embodied in
foreign loans. It is anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real
level, and on harder terms in the first half of the 1980s. It is of particu-
lar importance that external finance be used to support policies designed to



- 7 -
prevent the re-emergence of the resource deficit toward the end of the
decade. There is much greater scope for utilizing the foreign exchange
reserves in place of public sector borrowings - these should decline while
the resource surplus continues. It is anticipated that the public debt
service ratio, with oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of
10-12% for the first half of the 1980s.
17.       In the past, selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended on the grounds that finance of only the foreign exchange cost of
projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's capital requirements.  In view
of the present favorable resource position, in the future local cost financing
will be limited to projects of key importance and where such financing is
required to ensure a significant Bank contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
18.       As of July 31, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling $931.8 million, and 58 Bank loans amounting to $3,729.0 million. IFC
investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of May 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and zredits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
19.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then increasingly towards the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (No. P-3065-IND), circulated under cover
of R81-125, dated May 13, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors
on June 2, 1981.



- 8 -
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Reflecting in part
the successes of the first two Plan periods, Repelita III, published in early
1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but departed
from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable income
distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in line
with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater attention
to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector) and
improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
20.       While in many respects Indonesia-s basic development constraints and
issues remain unchanged, the resources surplus discussed in Part I of this
report provides GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development
effort. This will require the articulation of a coherent set of policies
designed to promote employment through the development of an efficient
industrial sector; the acceleration of irrigation and tree crop development
programs; increased emphasis on measures designed to alleviate critical
manpower constraints, particularly at the intermediate and higher levels; and
the development of innovative low-cost programs designed to meet the basic
needs of the population. Special attention will also have to be given to
alleviating institutional and administrative bottlenecks which currently
inhibit plan implementation. The Banks own program of lending and economic
and sector work is being geared to support GOIs efforts to address these
issues. For example, the Bank is planning to significantly expand its
hitherto modest involvement in the industrial sector. An industrial sector
report which focuses on policy issues has been completed and additional
economic work designed to provide the necessary understanding for an expanded
involvement in the sector is under way. An industrial finance operation
designed to support industrial lending through several financial
intermediaries is being prepared and projects designed to support engineering
industries, export processing, small-scale industry as well as some large
scale enterprises, are at various stages of identification and preparation.
Initiatives are also planned in the energy sector.   Indonesia is overly
dependent on oil for its own energy consumption. In an effort to help
Indonesia articulate an energy development program of domestic energy sources
as well as a rational set of domestic pricing policies (para. 15 above), the
Bank has embarked on a significant program of energy sector work.
21.       Outside industry and energy, no major shifts in the balance of Bank
activities are expected. Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a
substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending and continued support for the
provis' - of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition, urban
developmL.,. and water supply) and transport is anticipated. However, it is
expected that these operations will increasingly focus on institutional



- 9 -
changes and policy issues and that they will be gradually broadened to a
subsector and sector basis to have a broader impact than hitherto. For
example, a proposed maritime transport project would focus on required
regulatory reforms and a planned health project would attempt to improve
low-cost health care systems. The justification for Bank lending will thus
depend more on technical assistance rather than resource transfers.
22.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Miany of the problems appear to
be related to GOI-s cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues.  Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in
September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar was held in Jakarta in
September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has
taken several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being
presented for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle.
Indications are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking
place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million
in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80, and to $373.5 in FY81. While it is
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
23.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
24.       The proposed project constitutes the first lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the second textbooks,
eleventh power, rural roads, Bukit Asam mining and second seeds projects.



- 10 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Role of the Transport Sector in the National Economy
25.       Given the size of the Indonesian archipelago, the development of
an extensive and efficient transportation system is especially important to
the growth of a modern economy based on regional specialization and a large
national market. The rapid growth of the national economy over the past
decade has placed a heavy burden on the transport sector. Total transport
demand is estimated to have grown about 12% per annum during the 1970s. It
is estimated that for each 1% increase in national GDP transport demand
increases by about 1.7%. Thus, there is a pressing need to improve the
productivity of the existing transport system and to invest efficiently in
the expansion of that system.
26.       During Repelita I, about 15% of the GOI budget was allocated to the
transport sector. During Repelita II, about 16% was allocated to transport,
and GOI expenditures for development of this sector increased significantly
following the growth of revenues after the 1973 oil price increase. Through-
out the first two Plan periods, emphasis was placed on rehabilitation of the
existing transportation infrastructure rather than new construction. More
than half of GOI expenditure on transport was allocated to road development.
Repelita III originally allocated about 14% (Rp. 2,998 billion) of the total
Plan budget to the transport sector. Total resources available for investment
in this and other sectors have increased sharply since 1979.
27.       The development budget for the transport sector during Repelita
ITI is divided among the modes approximately as follows:  57% for road
infrastructure and the road transport industry; 8% for railways; 18% for
sea transport infrastructure and the domestic shipping industry; 15% for
air transport; and 2% for inland water transport. Since Repelita II, the
share of the budget allocated to roads and air transport has grown,
reflecting the fact that demand in these subsectors has risen more rapidly
than demand in other subsectors.
28.       There are wide variations in the availability of transport infra-
structure and services in the different regions of the country. Although
regions with higher concentrations of population and economic activity enjoy
better transport services than other regions, services are still far from
adequate throughout the country. The islands of Java and Sumatra rank highest
in terms of available road infrastructure and transport fleet: they are
better served by both air and marine transport, and only Java and parts of
Sumatra have a railway network. GOI's difficult task is to ensure that the
growing transport requirements of the more advanced regional economies such as
on Java and Sumatra are effectively met while the transport services in other
regions of the country are also developed in order to spur local economic
growth.



- 11 -
GO Responsibilities for Transport Sector Development.
29.       GOI guides the development of the transport sector through its
investments in infrastructure, its policies on pricing, subsidies, and
taxation, its regulation of private firms, and its ownership of the railway
and domestic ship, airline, and bus companies. The three GOI agencies most
responsible for the development of the sector are the Ministry of
Communications (MOC), which plans, regulates, and controls all aspects of
the sector except physical development of roads, the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW), which is responsible for the planning, construction, and
maintenance of the road subsector, and the National Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), which reviews sector development plans and prepares jointly with
the Ministry of Finance the development budget. Within MPW, responsibility
at the national level for roads rests with the Directorate General of
Highways (DGH). DOH (Bina Marga in Indonesian) has some 4,000 employees,
including a significant proportion of Indonesia's civil engineers. At the
provincial and district (kabupaten) levels, responsibility for roads is
given to integrated public works agencies which report directly to the
provincial and district governments (part of the Ministry of Home Affairs)
and which receive technical support from MPW.
30.       Planning.  Planning for road development is undertaken by DGH,
which prepares annually a detailed five-year program for all national and
provincial roads and bridges. In 1979, DGH shifted its long-range regional
development planning functions to the Directorate General of Housing and
Urban and Regional Development (Cipta Karya) within MPW. Since its first
highway project in 1969, the Bank has helped finance technical assistance
for improved planning within DGH. At present DGCi has a sophisticated,
centralized system which identifies appropriate treatment for each road
segment ranging from maintenance, support works (heavy deferred
maintenance), betterment (improvement on existing alignment) to new
construction. Planning for all other modes is the responsibility of
agencies within MOC. MOC organizes periodic meetings with provincial
authorities to review its development proposals, and since 1979 there have
been joint meetings between MOC and DGH to attempt to coordinate plans.
However, these arrangements for regional and intermodal planning are still
weak.
31.       Construction and Maintenance of Infrastructure.  Responsibility
for road construction lies with DGH's Directorate of Construction and is
executed under a variety of arrangements. Minor construction is usually
done by small contractors using equipment and materials supplied by GOT.
Due to the small number of experienced contracting firms able to execute
such projects, most major road works have been done by foreign contractors.
Maintenance of national and provincial roads is undertaken by the provincial
public works departments (DPUPs), although maintenance of the single
existing toll road (Jagorawi) has now been turned over to the public toll
road corporation (P.T. Jasa Marga).  Construction and maintenance of ports,
airports, and related facilities are the responsibility of the concerned



- 12 -
agencies within MOC, and for the railway these functions are undertaken by
the National Railways Corporation which is tinder the authority of MOC.
32.       Regulation.  MOC has sole responsibility for regulating the
transport sector. Transport-related fees, official tariffs, taxes, and
other charges are fixed and enforced by MOC in cooperation with the Ministry
of Finance. Within MOC, the Directorate General of Land Communications
regulates the trucking industry, public transport operations, and private
motor vehicles.
Major Problems and Policy Issues of the Sector
33.       Despite the increasing budget allocations to and private invest-
ments in transport, the system's ability to meet growing demand for trans-
port services remains far from adequate. The country-s enormous dimen-
sions and the uneven distribution of population and income make it extremely
difficult and expensive for GOI to pursue a transport sector strategy which
both responds to the rapidly increasing transport demands in the more
advanced segments of the economy and seeks to improve transport services to
those more isolated segments which have not yet benefitted as much from
national development. In its effort to improve transport sector performance,
GOI confronts the following major problems:
(a) inefficient utilization of existing transport resources due
to poor maintenance and low-productivity operations;
(b) uncoordinated and fragmented arrangements for transport
development planning and transport system management;
(c) a regulatory and pricing system which causes distortions
in the demand for transport; and
(d) limited recovery of the costs of developing, operating, and
maintaining transport infrastructure and services.
The various aspects of these major problems are discussed further below.
34.       Inefficient Utilization of Existing Infrastructure.  Because of
inadequate financial and technical resources for maintenance, and because
of administrative and management practices which sometimes limit the
productivity of existing infrastructure, available transport facilities
are often not utilized to their full capacity. For this reason, the most
cost-effective expenditures to improve transport services will often be for
improved operations and maintenance rather than new construction.
35.       Uncoordinated Arrangements for Planning and Management.  Weak
arrangements for coordination between DGH and the various agencies of MOC
as well as between the agencies of the central government and the provincial/



- 13 -
district governments lead to inadequate planning for development of the
transport sector.  Under currmnt procedures it is difficult to prepare an
integrated transport development plan for a given region which takes into
account the most cost-effective combination of modes.
36.       Regulatory and Pricing System which Distorts Demand.  Through its
system of official tariffs, subsidies, and taxes, GOI significantly affects
the pricing of many transport services and incurs on balance substantial
cost to the public treasury. The low price of fuel to domestic users is the
largest subsidy. Even after the substantial increase on May 1, 1980, the
domestic prices for gasoline and diesel fuel were Rp 150 and Rp 53 per liter
respectively compared to world market prices of Rp 236 and Rp 189 in June
1980. Losses incurred by the public-owned railways and shipping and bus
companies also impose a burden on the public budget.
37.       Low Cost Recovery.  The system of taxation, road user charges, and
official tariffs for some services such as railways, urban busses, and
interisland shipping lead to low cost recovery. It is estimated that during
fiscal year 1979/80, GOI invested Rp 400 billion to develop and maintain
road infrastructure whereas the users of the road system contributed only
Rp 190 billion to these expenditures. The low level of road user charges is
one factor which has shifted demand away from rail to road transport.
38.       GOI is well aware of these major problems and progress is being
muade in mitigating many of them. For example, DGH is in the process of
preparing programs to improve provincial road operations, including
maintenance. Administrative changes are being identified and implemented to
improve operations of infrastructure, e.g. the working hours of some ports
have been increased, and night flights are being instituted for some air
routes. With respect to planning, periodic meetings between DGH and MOC
will continue as new procedures are being sought with the help of
Bank-financed consultants to the Planning Bureau of MOC. As a follow-up to
the recent completion of studies of the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Area,
financed under the second Urban Development Project (Ln. 1336-IND),
arrangements are being made for multi-agency committees to oversee planning
and development in the Area. Domestic fuel prices were increased by 50% in
1980, although the subsidy remains large. A study of road user charges was
financed under the Bank-s Fourth Highway Project (Ln. 1236-IND), and as a
follow-up consultants are being financed ander the Fifth Highway Project
(Ln. 1696-IND) to recommend the best way to raise road user charges.
39.       Within the limited context of the transport requirements for the
Greater Jakarta area, the proposed project seeks to address some of the
major problems identified in the sector. First, the project aims to improve
utilization of the existing road infrastructure in the Jakarta-Cikampek
corridor. Second, it will support improved procedures for regional,
intermodal planning for future transport development and management in the
Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Area. And, finally, it will construct a major



- 14 -
toll road which will provide much needed additional highway capacity in the
Jakarta area while assuring high cost recovery commensurate with the
relatively favorable investment and income position of the region.
Development and Administration of Toll Roads
40.       The new National Road Law, adopted in December 1980, established
the basic legal framework for toll roads, specifying that "... the Govern-
ment will transfer jurisdiction over the operation of toll roads to a State
Toll Road Corporation." The existing corporation, P.T. Jasa Marga, was
established in March 1978. The corporation's initial responsibility was
only to administer collection of tolls on the Jagorawi Highway, designated a
toll road by Presidential Decree in 1978, and the Citarum Rajamandala
Bridge, designated a toll facility in 1979. Beginning in January 1980,
P.T. Jasa Marga has been given responsibility for maintenance of the
Jagorawi highway. The design and construction of new toll roads remains the
responsibility of DGH. The proposed project would include assistance to
improve the management capabilities of P.T. Jasa Marga.
41.       To date there are no established criteria for deciding whether a
proposed road should be made a toll facility. No explicit economic, finan-
cial, or technical guidelines have been set for establishing and adjusting
tihe structure and level of tolls to be levied. During negotiations GOI
agreed to prepare a study of the structure and level of tolls to be proposed
for the new toll road and to submit the study to the Bank for its review
before the opening of the road (Section 3.08 of draft Loan Agreement).
Experience under Previous Highway Projects
42.       Bank Group lending for highways in Indonesia has been adapted to
the evolving needs of the highway system. The First Highway Project
(Cr. 154-IND) helped restore communications in Indonesia, after a long
period of neglect, by providing equipment and materials for a maintenance
program and rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of roads. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR). SecM78-524 June 20, 1978, indicates that
the project had delays in the maintenance program due to poor project
formulation. The Second Highway Project (Cr. 260-IND) was used primarily to
help rebuild a section of the Trans-Sumatra Highway. The Third Highway
Project (Cr. 388-IND) helped finance reconstruction of a road to a new
irrigation area in Sulawesi. It also included an important training
component for highway personnel as well as studies and design of road
improvements subsequently financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Ln.
1236-IND). The construction element under the Second Highway Project was
completed in 1977 and under the Third Highway Project in December 1978. As
detailed in the PPAR SecM81-4, January 6, 1981, the second project had
relatively small delays and cost overruns, while the third project had
significant delays (mobilization problems in a very remote area and
unusually wet weather) and increased construction costs (due to under-
estimate of quantities and sharp price increases after the oil price rise).
The PPAR also noted the importance of providing adequate leadership for and
guidance to the study team for regional development plans.



- 15 -
43.       The Fourth Highway Project represented a new departure in several
ways. The project (a) sponsored the establishment of four regional Road
Betterment Offices; (b) supported a large-scale and complex program of major
construction projects primarily for the betterment of existing roads;
(c) included assistance to strengthen virtually all functions of DGH;
(d) helped initiate studies of other institutions concerned with highways
such as provincial and district public works agencies, and consultants and
contractors engaged in highway works; and (e) provided for studies of
highway laws, road user charges, and vehicle weights and dimensions
regulations. Although about two years behind schedule, over 1,200 km of
road betterments have been put under contract, and 90% of the project has
been completed by mid 1981. Positive changes have also been effected in
planning, design, budgeting, and control procedures of DGH.
44.       The Fifth Highway Project (Ln. 1696-IND) covers all important
programs of DGH and of Indonesia, particularly at the DPUP level. The
project provides finance for: (a) components of DGH's bridge replacement
program; (b) some works executed by provincial public work departments;
(c) measures to study and improve the highway institutions in some provincial
governments; (d) expenditures to upgrade road maintenance; and (e) outlays
to strengthen Indonesian highway consultants and contractors. There have
been start-up delays in many components of the project. Road betterment
contracts for 531 km out of the 800 km planned have been awarded, and the
balance was scheduled for tending in August 1981. Consultants are in place
for construction supervision, project monitoring, management assistance, a
study of the construction industry, and assistance in transport planning and
regulations. Other consultants are now being mobilized to provide technical
assistance to MOC for a national highway safety scheme and development of
new regulations for vehicle weights and dimensions. The eight DPUP programs
have been defined and equipment tenders are being evaluated; however, the
increased GOI budget for these programs will lead to an expansion of road
works.
Transport in the Jakarta Area
45.       Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia, together with the surrounding
districts (kabupatens) of Tangerang, Bogor, Bekasi, and Karawang in the
province of West Java, is the largest urban area in Indonesia, the center
of economic activity, and the hub of land, air, and sea transport. In
1978, the population of Jakarta and the surrounding districts was about
11.6 million, more than 8% of the Indonesian population. With an annual
population growth of 420,000, it is estimated that the Greater Jakarta area
will reach a population of 22 to 23 million by the end of the century.
Greater Jakarta accounts for about 10% of national GDP, and its economy
is growing more rapidly than that of the country as a whole. The fastest
growth is expected to be in the manufacturing sector. Average per capita
incomes in the area are estimated to be about 10% above the national
average. The port of Tanjung Priok, located within Jakarta's city limits,
handles about 30% of the country's cargo trade. Thus, in addition to
intra-urban traffic, the transportation network of the Takarta area must
handle much of the flow of passengers and freight moving within Java and
between Java, the other islands of Indonesia, and other countries.



- 16 -
46.       The bulk of future industrial and population growth in the Greater
Jakarta area is expected to take place to the east toward Cikampek and to
the west toward Tangerang. The transport network along this east-west axis
is increasingly saturated and cannot support much more growth. The present
highway from East Jakarta through Bekasi to Cikampek now accommodates not only
traffic generated by the mix of residential, commercial, and industrial
development along the road but also most of the passenger and freight traffic
to the rest of Java. In 1980, motorized traffic amounted to almost 24,000
vehicles per day near Bekasi, 35 km east of Jakarta, and about 11,000 vehicles
per day near Cikampek, 78 km east. The existing alignment of the road is
poor, with sharp curves, unequal pavement widths, narrow shoulders, and
several at grade railway crossings. Animal and human propelled forms of
transport account for as much as 30% of total traffic. Traffic accident rates
are high. It is clear that, without substantial improvements to the existing
highway and provision of new road space in the corridor, it will be impossible
to accommodate ongoing economic development in the immediate region and to
satisfy the growing demand for transport between Jakarta and the rest of Java.
47.       The total demand for development of the transportation network in
the Jakarta area is immenise, accounting for almost 70% of the total develop-
ment budget for the region under Repelita III. Planning the development of
this network will require improved institutional arrangements. At present 15
agencies of the national, regional and local governments share responsibility
for planning and managing the transport system with inadequate arrangements
for coordination. Furthermore, financing this development will require
increasing contributions from the Jakarta economy itself. Over the last six
years, OI expenditures in Jakarta alone have amounted to 15% of all national
public development expenditures, exceeding GOI revenues from Jakarta. These
GOI expenditures amount to about 27% of all revenues accruing to the Jakarta
city government and more than 50% of revenues available to the surrounding
districts. Taking into account the pressing needs in other areas of the
country and the relative advantages of the Jakarta area, GOI has proposed that
the new major arteries in the area should be toll roads which will provide
high cost recovery.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The project was identified and prepared by GOI with the assistance
of consultants financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Ln. 1236-IND).
The project was appraised by missions in April and October 1980. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3376-IND) is being circulated separately. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from June 8 to June 12, 1981, with a GOI team
led by Mr. Suryatin Sastrotaijoyo, Director General of Highways. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The project-s principal objective is to provide the urgently
required increase in the capacity of the road network in the corridor



- 17 -
between Jakarta and Cikampek with provisions for high cost recovery.  In
addition, it will improve the management of and development planning for
the transport system in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Area. It will
consist of:
(a)  construction of a new limited access, fully grade-separated toll
road of 72 km between Jakarta and Cikampek;
(b)  improvements to the existing Jakarta-Cikampek highway between
Bekasi and Cikampek, by:
(i) construction of bypasses around major settlements;
(ii) grade separation of road and rail traffic at one
location;
(iii) establishing uniform widths of pavements and widened
hard-surfaced shoulders to accommodate human and
animal propelled traffic;
(iv) low cost traffic management measures; and
(v) drainage improvements.
(c) consulting services to:
(i) supervise the civil works and ancillary operations required to
improve the existing Jakarta-Cikampek highway and to construct
the new toll road;
(ii) assist in strengthening the capacity of P.T. Jasa Marga to
manage toll road operations (75 man-months); and
(iii) assist in implementing arrangements for improved regional
transport planning and system management for the Greater
Jakarta Metropolitan Area (75 man-months).
50.       Under the project, the new toll road will be four lanes for about 25
km from Jakarta to Cibitung (Section A). The remainder (Sections B and C)
will be two lanes with provision for additional lanes as traffic increases in
the next decade. Access to the toll road will be provided at eight
interchanges which will be constructed during the project. Five spur roads
with a total length of about 34 km will be constructed or upgraded to connect
the main townships in the region with the new highway and to provide for
traffic dispersal at the Jakarta end.



- 18 -
Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project, including contingency allowances, is
estimated at $356.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of $182.3
million, representing 51% of total project cost. Cost estimates are based on
June 1981 prices and include estimated taxes and duties of 14%. Total cost
includes: (a) physical contingencies of 10% of base cost, and (b) price
contingencies amounting to 36% of local expenditures and 27% of foreign
expenditures (local cost inflation is projected at 9% in the second half of
1981, 14% in 1982, and 10% p.a. thereafter, and foreign cost inflation of 9%
in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% in 1983-85, and 6% p.a. thereafter). Of the base
cost, $14.3 million is for consulting services. The cost of civil works
supervision is estimated at 8% of the construction cost for the improvements
on the existing highway and at 6% for the new toll road. Average man-month
costs for consulting services, including travel and allowances, are estimated
at $1,500-$2,500 for local consultants and $8,000-$9,000 for expatriates.
Substantial input from local consultants has been assumed. In addition, local
facilities, related equipment and materials are estimated to cost $500-1,000
per man-month for both Indonesian and expatriate professionals.
52.       Financing for the project will include the proposed Bank loan of
$85 million (24% of total project cost) and a loan from the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (KFAED) of $60 million. GOI will be responsible
for financing the balance of $211.5 million, including both foreign exchange
and local costs. The proposed Bank and KFAED contributions to the project
will be in the form of parallel financing except for the construction
supervision services, which will be financed jointly. Under this arrangement,
the Bank will help finance the foreign exchange costs of Section A of the
toll road, improvements to the existing road, and all consulting services;
KFAED will help finance construction of Sections B and C of the toll road and
the consulting services for construction supervision.
Implementation
53.       DGH will be the executing agency for all civil works under the
project and for related activities such as land acquisition, and housing and
business relocation. DGH has already been the executing agency for five
Bank-assisted highway projects, on which its performance has been satisfac-
tory, and it is well established to deal with all functions of road develop-
ment. The feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the project were
carried out under the supervision of DGH's Subdirectorate of Urban Roads.
Presently DCH is prequalifying contractors for the proposed civil works and
seeking proposals from consultants to undertake construction supervision.
Assurance was given by GOI during negotiations that notice to proceed would
not be issued to contractors unless arrangements have been finalized for
retaining consultants for supervision (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       The project will be implemented over a five-year period.  Improve-
ments to the existing highway will begin in mid-1982 and would be completed
by late 1985. Constructions of the new toll road will begin at about the



- 19 -
same time and will be completed in mid-1987.  At negotiations GOI provided a
status report on the land acquisition and agreement was reached on a satis-
factory work program and timetable for completing acquisition. Assurance
was given during negotiations that GOI will take all necessary actions
for land acquisition and all appropriate steps to minimize the relocation
hardships of households and businesses concerned (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
55.       Upon completion of the new toll road in 1987, responsibility for
operation and maintenance will be turned over to P.T. Jasa Marga, which now
operates the two existing toll facilities in Indonesia. During negotiations
assurance was obtained that GOI will cause the toll road to be operated and
maintained efficiently; that P.T. Jasa Marga will have such powers,
management, and administration as necessary for efficient operation and
maintenance of the toll road; that upon completion of the toll road GOI and
P.T. Jasa Marga will enter into a Hand-over Agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; that GOI will take any necessary steps to cover any
shortfalls in financing the operation and maintenance of the toll road; and
that a program, satisfactory to the Bank, will be carried out for the training
of P.T. Jasa Marga personnel in the fields of engineering, finance,
accounting, management and traffic control (Sections 3.06 and 3.11 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Assurance was also obtained that the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles using the toll road will not exceed design limits
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement) and that GOI will take all steps
required to improve maintenance of all public roads in the project area
(Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       DGH will be responsible for the technical assistance for toll road
management.  The details of the consulting services for the regional transport
studies will be decided collectively by the GOI agencies (DGH, Directorate
General of Housing and Urban/Regional Development, BAPPENAS, and the Jakarta
and West Java governments) which will constitute the subcommittee on transport
to be established for the purpose of planning in the Greater Jakarta Metro-
politan Area.
Procurement and Disbursements
57.       Contracts for all civil works which will be partially financed by
the Bank will be based on unit prices and let after international competitive
bidding following standard Bank guidelines. The proposed bidding documents
have already been prepared. KFAED will follow its own procedures for inter-
national competitive bidding for the civil works which will be partially
financed out of its loan. All consulting services under the project will be
contracted on the basis of proposals from short-listed qualified consultants
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
58.       Disbursements of the loan proceeds will be made over a five-year
period on the following basis: (a) 50% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 25% of total expenditures for consulting services for construction
supervision of the toll road; and (c) 100% of expenditures for all other
consulting services.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
59.       Based on anticipated reductions in vehicle operating costs and
passenger travel time, it is estimated that the economic rate of return (ERR)
of the investments in the improvements to the existing road and construction
of the new toll road is 23% for a 20-year time horizon. This ERR is based on
assumptions about toll rates based on rates set on the existing Jagorawi toll
road and estimates of the resulting diversion of traffic from the existing
highway to the toll road. Time costs for passengers are based on an esti-
mated occupancy rates and wage rates. The project remains economically
viable under a wide range of alternative assumptions about total traffic
volume and diversion. In addition, the project is expected to yield impor-
tant benefits to the regional economy which cannot be quantified, including
reduction in the number of traffic accidents in the corridor and improved
institutional arrangements for toll roads and for transport development
planning and system management in the Jakarta region.
60.       The principal direct beneficiaries of the project will be commercial
and private users of the roads in the corridor, who will enjoy lower transport
costs which will be, at least in part, passed on to other sectors of the
national economy. The population and coiamercial enterprises along the
existing road will benefit not only from reduced transport costs but also
from improved accessibility in the area resulting in stimulus to economic
and social development. Given the high volume of bus and paratransit
vehicles in the present and projected traffic flow, a significant proportion
of those passengers benefiting from the project will be from lower income
groups. To ensure adequate safety, assurance was obtained from GOI that a
highway safety program would be put into effect for project roads as part of
a national safety scheme (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       Based on reasonable assumptions about toll rates and traffic volumes
on the toll road, it is estimated that toll revenues collected by P.T. Jasa
Marga will be sufficient not only to cover annual costs for operating and
maintaining the road but also to fully amortize the investments required to
construct the toll road and to generate a cash surplus for investments in
other projects. Thus cost recovery to GOI would be high.
62.       The project has been thoroughly prepared and there are no unusual
technical or other risks. There is, however, uncertainty about response to
toll rates and consequently about the traffic volume on the new toll road.
Therefore, assurances were obtained that use of the toll road and the effects
of tolls will be monitored and necessary corrective measures taken in order
to ensure that both the toll road and the existing road are utilized
efficiently (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
Environment Aspects
63.       The project would improve environmental conditions near the existing
highway by reducing congestion and accident rates. The alignment of the new
toll road parallels the Jatiluhur Irrigation Canal, which already forms a
barrier to north-south traffic flows, and therefore the new road will not
further disrupt such flows.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. A special condition of effectiveness is that
all conditions precedent to the KFAED Loan Agreement shall have been ful-
filled. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 19, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AKEA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L.
TOTAL            1919.3                                            MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      286.4                   1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.0        140.0            370.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           130.1        128.4            237.1             499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       94680.0    116143.0          142870.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6         17.1             19.8              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                   219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                     388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K1.                             49.3         60.5             74.4             153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          355.9        417.9            487.3             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               40.7         44.0             40.8              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                               56.2         53.5             56.3              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ANOVE                         3.1          2.5              2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH BATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1          2.0              2.3               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                                    3.7          3.6              4.0               3.4                     3.8
CRLDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.7         40.8             36.2              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.8         17.7             13.3              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.0          2.8              2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          0.2             27.1              20.4                   44.1
FOOD ANU NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)                93.0        102.0            103.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         89.0         92.0            105.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                41.0         41.0             47.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WhICh ANIMAL AND PULSE              6.0          6.0              6.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           31.2         20.4             13.7              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          39.0         46.7             53.0              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                159.0        126.0            120.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..          3.0             12.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                                     ..         10.0             35.0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                                     ..          1.0              6.0              20.1                    34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATlON)
TOTAL                                     ..         12.0             15.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                                     ..         50.0             60.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                                     ..          4.0              5.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               46778.7      26498.5          13644.4            3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               ..       7672.8           8851.9            6411.8                  2229.7
PUPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 1364.1       1644.6           1606.0            1132.8                  588.5
URBaN                                  251.8           ..            697.3             322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..           3159.0            5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..          ..             22.4
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    4.4          4.8
URBAN                                    4.9          5.3
RURAL                                    4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                                     ..          1.5
URBAN                                     ..          1.6
RURAL                                     *-          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                      ..          ..



- 23 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0         78.0             94.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0              94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0         16.0             22.0              38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              34.6/aa.                58.4
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              IB.Dlaa                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)        20.0         22.0             20.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 39.0         29.0             30.0              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                               14.0         13.0             17.0              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.0          2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2         22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1          0.8              7.3               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                         ..           ..             17.7              14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..           ..              0.8               3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.9         31.0             29.5              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8         66.3             59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.4          9.7             11.8              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.3             35.6              39.7                    40.2
MALE                                      54.2         49.5             50.1              51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                    20.0         21.6             21.1              23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.7          1.3              1.2               1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         33.7/c           23.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..         52.0/c           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          6.8/c            6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF IHOUSEHOLDS          ..         17.37T           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            136.0             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..            112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATE) RELATIVE POVERTY INCOM4E
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            119.0                ..                  249.8
RURAL                                     .-           ..             98.0                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..           ..             28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..             51.0              51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  Chira included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



- 24 -                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data are dryso ftru seircen generally judged the meet authoritetire sed reliable, it theuld lse. be noted thet they may net be ittet-
estioc-lly comparable because of the lack of standardied definitions and concepts used by different counnees in coilecting the data. The dce ace, none-
theless, usefal no describe orderu oEf   nitude, inddi-te trends, and cbcrh- tcrie -eroaoi  major differences be-een countries
The reference groups are i1) the acne coanery group of the sob)err country aed (2) a couanry group otbith  oswet hig her anerage irn.e thao the country group
of the sub)ect country (encept for "Capital Surplus Oil txpoensns"  group ohero "Middle Ioo=e North Africa aMn Middle East" is threes  becess  of steonger
socie-culneret offitices) .In che reference group dune   aceraees ae  populeton weighted ahtiseneh.               seans for each indi-ater end sho.n only vhon
mjity of rh. tcuntries in  grcup hao dLea for thee indicatr.  Since the co-erage on couneioesung the idi caters depend,s on the ... ilabillty of des.
end is roe uniform, cesnion mono breexerised  to relstinB  caregrae  cf one indictor-   to another   T-ere eaerages are I       niy uncOol in comparing the tlue of
one indioator or a ntie aoonf the country and reference grops.
LAND AeNtA  (thou.and sq.kc) .c alu n per H Seitel Nod-seoul, u[bar  nd rural - Populstion  (total,
Total - Totai surfaer  area  -o,prtntng lend Irel  end inlcnd eaters.                              urban, end rural) divided by thier re-penIce number of hospital beds
Ahritulntral - Esnicate of agricultural area uned temporarily or pormanecoly                      aceileble in public and pinnate general and specializod hospital end re-
for crops, pastures. moket end kitchen gardens cr to lie fallen  1979 Ita.                      hubilotctin  renters   Hospitais err establishments yersanoenty staffed
byie. las  one  physiutan.  tstahiish he .. pr tiin  p--niatynuffo-
GtP PEN CAPITA (USi) - GNP per ..pit.               Ittimsten current FNrket prices, ca-             da  cart are cotsincld     Etur   hospltels, honoeve, iptiudo health
oulaned by ser . conversion meot1d cs World Bnck Atlae (1977-79 basis); 1960,                     and medical cenners non peroanmetly steffed by c physticis  (but by
1970, und 1979 data.                                                                               endAel asnitnoco  noose, midwife, err.) ahich offer tn-phientesteo. e-
Asnion and p..nid. c limited reege of sedin_   fciless    Pr stunts-
ENtRGY CONSOPTION PER CAPITA - Annual nonsueptier of nooseotal energy (cosl                          tied   proe  urdar ibi-iesle incNlude WdOO  pir,cipal/gp eoecl h,epitol
and lignite,  petreoleu, nanuncl gas sod hydro-, nsclesr sud genthernel elec-                     and rurtl hoepieals leol  or  rurol hoapitals snd sodici cud maternity
neiciny) in bilegroen of eno   equI lelne per cepit.; 1960, 197l , end 1979                       cantns.  Speialized hbspiitls ore included osiy under norol.
date.                                                                                           Admissions per Hoopictl BNd -  Itl number of admissIons no or disohoegos
free hospitals dinided by the Dsbher of beds,
POPULATTIN AND VITAL STATISTICS
TItel Population, Mid-Tear (eouands) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, ond 1979                     HOUStNG
dataA. Arage Sloe of Household  Prersons yer household) - total,  rbon, and rera-
lohan Poynietien (pearnet of toal1) - Rtior  of urban no total pnpulation;                        A heueehnld consists  of  a group of individuals who shore Oiving quarera
different dofitinions of urbac areao csy effect nomporahility of dare                           end their main meals.   A boarder cc ledger csy or may toe bh  included in
asengncouoteie; h1960I, 1970, end 197i  dat,                                                    tnhe household for s       taiseical purposes
Population Pr-jeoniuos                                                                          Anerage number of Persoos Ir roes-tunal, urban, and rural - Arerage tam-
Population in yeor 200l     - CarrotI popnlation prejections aee  bused on 1980                 ber of persons per roes in a11 urban, end rural occupled co.ene.tieel
total pepul.ctln by ego uan  sen and ToeSe norelity end fertilty  rates                       doollingo, resp-ctively.  Dwellings exclude  en.-p-rmsent strutures asd
Projection parameters for mortality  canes nmpyrtie of three levelsassum-                     unoncupied part,
ing life exp-ctancy et bieth increasing kith .ountry's per capit. incoe.                    Ancess to Elmntyinitr (per-not of dvellings) - ttnl, urba., Nnd rural -
lenve, end fectl  life expectanny stehilileng  *  77.5 years.  rho pare-                      Coerestional deellinss vith  electricty  in qiin    uarters asPer             e
meters ear fertniliy rantcelse h-er  three lenls as-uming decline in                          of tetal, urban, end rural dwellings respectively,
fertility anording to income lerel end past family planning perfor=nten
each  _ountey to then sssigned one of tebse nine coshisan inn  of enrenlity               EDUCATION
end fertility  trends for projection purposes                                               Adjusted Etrollsntn totics
Stationary population - Is a.stationary popuiltios ibene is no gro-th aisre                     PrimerS shooni -  notal.  male end female - Gross tonal, male end fesle
the birth rats is equal to ehe deith rate, sod else ohs age seructare re-                       enrollsent of a1 egos at she primary  lol es porcntsages of re-pettine
mains constant.  This is athieed only after fertility rates decline so                          primary srhool-age populations; nohlly  incledee children eged 6-11
the roplaeesont lenel of Unit non rep-odu-tion raot. whom oah ge..rsntno                        years brt adjusted for different leDgnts of poimary odur-tion  for
of enten replacee itself euenly.  The stAtionary population sleeves                             cousnei eavith  -niv-essl educntion enrollment m Y exceed 100 per-ern
metilstod On the basis of the projected uhar--teristois of the popyiation                       stns sos pupils are below or abvre the official s-hool  go.
in thn  year 2l0O, end the rote of decline of fertility  rate to replano- .econdery school -                              total, sele and female - .J Cputtd no aboer; ete.odry
sent level.                                                                                     educationrequiree en loer fear ysars of eppred primey instruotion
YTar staniousry populetion is roscebd - The year she  ettioainary population                      providss goosea, rocatiosal, or teether training instructions for pupi}
stie hsbee ens re-ched.                                                                         usually of 12 to 11 years of ego  coroospodder.e courses are generrlly
Populstion Desity                                                                                    ecluded.
Peer   . k. - Hid-year population per square kilmter (101 henta-e-) of                                                                se-ti  eo n  ( o    ofcondary) - Vonational isetitutiost
ree   area;     0 19  0 d1919 date.                                                             isclade tenhical, industrial, or other progress v.hbc operte idepnd-
Pee sq. Am  ertculteral lend - Cempu.td en above for agrinultural land                            e_tly or as dopaemanrt   of secondery institueionsae
oely; 1960, 1910 end 1978 dae.                                                                Pupil-teacher ratio - _reimar.y  nd se..nd.rv - Tonel snudonts enrolled in
Populetion Ace Nerunntre f(erceet) - Children (0-14 yeart),- nrkig-ago (15-                          peisery end  .e.o.dmey levels divided by numbers of teacbers is the
64 years), aod retired (65 years cud ever) as pe-enntages of nid-yeor PnPU-                       CarrcPnding Iends.
lnion; 1960, 1910, c,d 1979 dat.                                                                Adult litercy raee  (percent) - Literate adults (able to reed and write)
Population irowth Rate (epoert.) - intol - Anreal gronh rates of totoal  id-                         asapercetoge of ttal adalt papuletien aged 15 yare and oven.
year populations for 19Sf-6if 196I-7f, end 1970-79.
Poyalntios Gro_th lees (percent) - mphan-Annucl growth rates of urban pope-                   CONSUMPTION
Istions for 190-, 160-10, end 1970-79.                                                        PsseDget Cart (per tho.sand populatisn) - P.ssm..gr ctrs             -temp rte mater
Credo Birth CAtr  (per t1ousendj - Annual line birnhs per thousand of mid-ysar                    cars meating loss btha  eight persons; encludes ambulances, hearses cud
pepaletron; 1960, 1970, end 1979 dat.                                                           silitaly  ebicles.
Crodo Death Rare (per tbnosondj - Ane1ul deaths per theu.ntde of oid-yecr                       Radio Reneivers (per thiousand rpelation) - All typos of recivers for sadie
population; 1960, 1910, and 1979 data,                                                          bood casts to general pblic per thousand of population  eluds              -
Cress Deroductien Ren - Aerage nusber of daughters a nos   sill beet in                           litensed reneirers is .uontriis and in yeers ehes _egistrentionof r dio
her nomal eprodeotive period if she experiences preseet ego-sop  tioi fer-                      sets  see in effect; dta for rerent yeses may not be compeesble mitre
tiliLy rates; .sually five-year eneres ending is 1960, 1970, sod 1979.                          m-at noustries ebolished linesing.
Pamily Planti g- e Acceptors. annual (thousands) - Annual number of -coepters                   TV Reorinsrs (per thousand  cenplati,n) - IV rosoivers for broadcont to
of birth-contrl device_  utdcr eampines of octional family planning progem.                     general public per ebsussod pop.lotioo; encludes    folinensed TV roceivers
Pseily PIa..is- U.sers (pernont of married  -onmo) - Pern-taage of married                        in ..u.trien end is yours che. regisersti-n of TV sees et      s in effes.
semen of child-bearing ge (15-44 years) who ass birnh-nnntrol deices to                       Newspapce   Circslation (per thonsaud eIpopation) - thaws tho overage ncr-
a11 married semen in some age group.                                                            nlation of ' daily general intrsest epcpee". defined as a periodical
pPbliaation devoted primrily tn  r co.diog georel .e.s.  Or is teemidemed
POOl AND NUJTRTIOSN                                                                                  no he "daily " Of in appears st leas.t four time  a  ek.
Inden   FoNoed Prd-tnins per Cupott  (1969-71=100) - Isden of per capita .e.....                Ci,.-  An...al Ante-desce er Cerit e re  Tone - eased on tho number of
p-d-otee of all feed Pemxditiss.  P-oducntin eclad .e seed *nd feed end                       Ctnheto sold Iduing the y-cp     , includig  dsmisi... tO drive-in ticemas
is an caledar year basis.  Cosmadities never primary gonda (e.g  sugarcane                      end sbile Units.
instead of sonar) shich are edible asd connte nutrients (e.g  coffe and
tsa ore excluded)   Aggregate production of oath counry in based On                         LABOR FORCE
setinsel averge producer price -cighta; 1961-,65  1970, sId 1979 dot.                        TIntl Labor Pores  (thousands) - E-enomically aotive persons,L inelding
Per oCoite nUeply of calorien (percent of ceuirmse) - Computed from                             armed fortes aed coosployad bha  sxcleding ho..       tves, students,  e.,
onergy eqieralene of see food supplies *v-ileble in connery per  -apita                       conering pepalatios of s11 sgos.   Dfinitte.. in variou.         tru tites ere
per day.  Aroileble supplies comprise de.esnin peodarnior, impnrts less                       non .o.persbls; 1960, 1970 edd 1979 datn.
oNporIs, ond changes in set-k   Non st pplies entlude animal faed, sends,                  FPomlo (perc.njt  - Pem_le labor foece as pernentage if total labor force.
quaneitiesasad is toed procossing., ad losses in diitribuetie   Require-                    Agriultures (percen) - Labor forte is fteeing, forostey, bunting end
man tn  ers estimated by PA0 based or physiological needs foe normal scei-                    fishiDg ae peroen-sge of tend  labor forte; 1960, 1970 end 1979 dta.t
vity end health considering emeiro....el tesporat Ire, body -eights,  geg                   Industry (percenet  - Ltboo forte it  mining, nonenrertien, meuufecnorisg
and san ditribotion of population, and allei     g It pornent for Paste at                  end eleneriotry, earee and gas as pevoennoge of total labor forte; 196t,
household lensJ; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 date,                                                190 tnd 1919 done
Por espint  su"ply of protnin (,gOns  pcr daiy  - Protein c-ntent of per c.pita               Participation BNte (porcent) - total, male, and feawle - Partinipation or
non supply of food per dy.  Net tupply of food is defined em aheve  NR-                       activity rates aren   pu-ed ct total, male.,  d fee.le lebus forte as
quiremants for a11 n.ourriot  entablished by USDA provide for mintism                         perne_tages of total, male end female population of  ll agen respentirly;
allosante of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams of animal and                     1960, 1970, and 1979 data   These are besed on OLt's psetinipesiem  pates
pales protein, of which 10 grams should be animal pnetn.j   Those stand-                      reflectIig  e-eo  etructure of the population, snd long tie trend.  A
ards ace lamer nths  thoes of 75 geese of total protein ard 23 gn-ms of                       foe setimnte  arc from national s. rnes.
animel protin Is  en ..erage for the world, proposed by FA0 is she Third                    Eronomin Dependen-s Ratie - Rario of populstion under 15 snd 65 end oven
World FPod Durvep; 1961-65, 1910 and 1977 dta.                                                to  the  tonal labor forie
Per ccoit. protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of feed de-
rived fee.s simals end pulses is grams per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dsta.              ICCME DtSIiT TION
Child (eaes 1-4)  -oreality Rate (per thousand) - Annual d.eath  per ehbesend in                Per-n-agna   f Private lnooS   (both in cash and kind) - Received by richest
age grimp 1-4 years, no childrt On thin age group; for I      set dereloping cone-              S perce.e, richest 20 perctet, poorest 20 perce-e, and peroses 40 perrent
etics dAts decived fro= life tabletI 1960, 1970 end 1979 dat                                    of boueholde
HEALTH                                                                                          POVERTY 100111 GOUPiSy
Life Eppeenmnt sVt Mirth (yoesr) - A-etage nmbser of years of life remaining                    Th. foloving .stimto.s ore nery eppresimate measnees of poverty levels,
anbrt;1960, 1910 and l9idt,adsol   eCnrrndsth ceniderablannis
Isaft Mtrtality'Rate (Pre  rhiuseId) - Ahosal deaths of iSfants under one year                   En d ghsuid      te PovprtyeIma Lovei (019  ptrito) - ambes end rural -
of ego per thousand lid   birthi                                                                Absolute povety income  l       e   that incom  lv   bo  which s miiml
Atness no Sefo Water (portent of popularion)- Loralt  urban, end rural - NDa-                      istritily  dqute diet plu   ssestiAl   n e-food require-mets is nOt
her of people (totnl, urban, and ruea) with  reannshlsecrets to mofs                            affeedebl
tser spplY (includes tersaed emefane maosor astroaLed hue -n-tnanlnted                       lEtiseted Reletiv- Peverty I---  Leve  (Uit Per rapitnl-urbee  cod erurl-
canoe st     a supYthan, f-ro peotted b.rbarhOs, springs, end ssnirary well9) Ra-p  relti- povrty income level is e--third of ev grhge pen -                                 rpit -
percentages of their respetine populatios.   Is an  rbane respublit                              personal ineoi s of the -onntry.  Urban leel is dorirod f.o.  the crul
fountain or stesdpoet located net mere thor 200 meterr  from  a house sy hee                      .ti        djnst       fn                          isr       a s
ronaidored as hoing nithie nsuecmbla aces   ofse   on. In reorso                               oiso   Prlte    elnAoln  PvprCnmeLvl(eeet       r
reasonable ac.e..  000 Id i=;y tha  the boe  enfe on mrrbe  of ohs b.r                          ad eurol   - Peh ser of popAltie (uban and rul)  he Are "vh          bsntg
dA  pot 1e,r to epend I diapropo-tionats part of the day in fetching the                        p
faoily' n saner needs.
A -  ronioforeoc   isposnal (percent of populioO - to-al  tu-bn, esd rur-l -
iesbhr of peopIe (total, urban, ad rural) serred by snerent disposal at
porce...tes of theIr r-npe-tir- lopulatio s.  inten  disposal may inctude
the nollectian and disposal, vith en without  t           teaenenn, of baser -ecrets                                                  fEsnic  edOia1 Rte Division
end  _s ne-nat;r by watr-hbrne  ymtee or the use of pit pnorivis and simi                                                       E      conoei i eAnlysnnand  ?rjItfnD Na Di p-nt
Pennienion pet Physician - Population divided by number of practicing physi-                                                                           ha  19Sl
clint qualified from a medical scheel on -niversity lev.e
Population per sunning yerect- Popslation divided by number of pranticing
sneand fselge sadaato nurses  practical nurses,and assistant nursee



- 2-                                                  ANNEX I
5~                                                Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amsount                                  Annual growth rate (%)
(million US$ at                              (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                     Actual                                  Projected
Indicator                             1979            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         49,211             5.0    6.9    8.8    6.8    4.9    7.1    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     14,678            0.0    4.7      1.3    5.2    2.2    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        16,003            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        18.531           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                        34,686            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    5.8   12.4    8.7    7.8    8.1    7.6    6.8
Gross investment                   11,103           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    5.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Exports of GNFS                    14,788          -9.7   12.5   22.4    0.1    8.9   -2.8    5.6    8.7    9.1    0.0    2.1
Imports of GNFS                    11,366            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   10.6  10.1         13.1   14.6   15.4    2.6    5.6
Gross national savings             12,400         -19.7    12.0   33.3   -2.1   43.3   19.3    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                            166    190    214    232    309    368    423    473    519    569    621
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /b                                 (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70      1970-75    1975-80      1980-85      1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4          6.9         7.3          8.2
Agriculture                  54      47      32      29     24      19          2.7          4.1         3.4          3.5         3.5
Industry                     14      18      34     33      36      41          5.2         12.0         9.1          9.0        11.2
Services                     32      35      35      38     40      40          4.8          9.7         8.4          8.5         8.0
Consumption                  91      89      79      74     76      77          4.1          8.4         8.3          7.7         8.7
Gross investment              8      14      20      24     29      31          4.8         18.3         10.8        12.0        10.0
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23      33     29      23          3.6          9.2          8.7         5.3         3.3
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -30    -34    -32              3.2         22.1        14.0         10.0         6.8
Gross national savings        8       9      17      24     25      22          6.1         23.1         19.3         9.5         5.9
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1979
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                            11.7            10.1            10.5            20.6
Current expenditures                                                        14.0             8.4             9.3            12.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                  -2.3            +1.6            +7.1           +8.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0            10.7            12.4
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5             3.7             4.3
1960-70         1970-75              1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.3              7.7              8.1
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                     2.4              5.1                 3.9              5.3              5.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.9             16.0                15.0             11.0             10.7
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.4              3.5              3.7
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.68             0.36             0.24
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 0.7              1.4              0.8
/a  At market prices.
lb  Projected years at constant prices.  Owing to favorable terms of trade developments the resource gap's share of GDP at
current prices is significantly less than at constant prices.
/c Central Government only, on an April-to-Mlarch fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                              Page 5 of 5 pages
Population     :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  IJSS365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                             -          Projected
Indicator                         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
Exports of goods and services             7,425   9,384  11,056  11,650  17,797  23,320  27,624  33,600  40,645  49,391  79,726
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           7,283   9,213  10,861  11,353  17,488  22,414  26,375  31,967  38,555  46,430  75,623
Imports of goods and services            -8,279 -10,186 -11,746 -12,785 -15,813 -20,407 -24,862 -30,398 -37,365 -46,967 -88,148
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.          -7,362  -8,807 -10,150 -10,907 -13,579 -17,569 -21,769 -27,028 -33,573 -42,230 -79,790
Net transfers                                 75      61       66       46       52       76     100       50       50       50      50
Current account balance                    -779    -741    -624  -1,109   2,046   2,989   2,862   3,252   3,329   2,473  -8,372
Private direct investment                   454      287      285      271      217      170     170      200      250     300      500
MLT Loans (net) /b                        _1,800   1,9    _1,131       660      604   1,768   1,788   1,857   1,579   1,273   3,316
Official - source (net)                   514      836      752      771     515   1,128   1,644   1,949   1,912   1,646          947
Private  - source (net)                 1,287   1,059       379    -110        89     640      144      -92    -333    -373   2,391
Other capital                            -1,839    -442    -140        888  -1,075  -2,417  -2,204  -1,511  -1,267    -738   1,368
Change in reserves                           364  -1,001    -651    -708  -1,690  -2,510  -2,616  -3,798  -3,892  -3,308   3,188
Net official reserves                        556   1,557   2,208   2,916   4,606   7,116   9,732  13,530  17,422  23,981  25,991
Reserves as months imports                   0.8     1.8      2.3      2.7      3.5     4.2      4.7      5.3      5.6     6.1      3.5
Memorandum Items
Net exports of goods and
services of the oil sector            3,138   3,710   4,445   4,010   6,974  10,577  12,295  12,466  16,523  20,481  27,029
Net foreign assets of the
banking system                          556   1,557   2,623   3,372   6,906  11,078  15,900  21,297  26,489  35,209  35,885
Total reserves /c as months imports    0.8         1.8      2.7      3.2     5.2      6.5      7.7      8.4     8.5      9.0      4.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     2,152   2,332   1,956   1,641   1,945   2,758
Concessional Loans                        503      488      442      494     445      968
DAC                                     378      365      354     429      405      830
OPEC                                      -        -       27       29       5       22
IDA                                     107       99       49       29      30       56
Other                                    18       23       12        6       6       59
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,649   1,844   1,514   1,148   1,501   1,790
Official export credits                  15      267      221     305       88      111
IBRD                                     57      157      191     168      199      355
Other multilateral                        3       11       16       12      46      100
Private - source                      1,574   1,409   1,086       663   1,168   1,223
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d    8,014  10,018  11,671  13,128  13,326  15,040
Official - source                   5,006   5,913   7,077   8,434   8,512   9,657
Private  - source                   3,008   4,105   4,594   4,694   4,814   5,383
Undisbursed debt                      3,703   4,533   4,481   5,832   7,514   8,029
Debt Service
Total service payments                  517      775   1,266   1,463   2,107   1,804
Interest                              165      318     441      485      772      815
Payments as % exports of goods
& services /e                         7.0      8.0    11.5    12.6    11.8        7.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(Z)                                     8.3      7.5      6.3     7.3      6.6      8.8
Official - source                       6.5      7.0      5.5     4.7      4.9      5.5
Private  - source                       9.3      8.1      8.6    10.8      8.9    13.5
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                12.7    14.9    20.5    21.2    19.9    18.1
Official - source                      21.3    20.2    23.9    30.1    25.7    23.5
Private  - source                       8.1      8.3    10.4       9.3    11.4    10.3
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1979
Matuirity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                       30.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                      64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                       4.0
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
lb  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.
T7  Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Eight Loans and twenty-nine Credits fully disbursed   426.51  458.43           -
300     1972   Population                                         13.20       0.95
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development               5.00       0.78
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50       3.51
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.80        4.41
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50       8.74
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00       0.97
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00       4.50
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50       0.76
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.00       11.59
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project              40.00       10.45
827     1978   Rural Credit                                      30.00       20.42
869     1979   Polytechnic                                       49.00       46.75
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00       9.42
919     1979   Transmigration II                                 67.00       53.92
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00      11.34
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                   45.00       43.74
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                              45.00       44.67
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                 42.00       42.00
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00      30.00
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                1.62
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00               21.02
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                6.85
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                5.69
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00               46.20
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00               12.93
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00               17.06
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                6.93
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                5.83
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00               11.42
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                  11.25
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50                9.09
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00               12.39
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00                1.91



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
13b5    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00              39.35
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00               9.66
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00              13.56
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00              44.58
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00              15.89
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                   3.91
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50              15.85
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00               8.48
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00              41.80
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00              66.66
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00             126.20
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00              24.79
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                  62.50
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00              62.86
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00              44.48
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00              45.92
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00              39.80
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00             119.42
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00              39.68
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00              90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00             154.53
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00              34.46
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III          99.00              86.81
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00             113.91
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S-holders IV           42.00              40.81
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                  35.00              35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                   35.00              35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                       253.00             245.18
1898    1981   S-holder Coconut Dev. Project              46.00              46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project             45.00              45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                       250.00             250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                  22.00              22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project /a    43.00                  43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V 7a   161.00                 161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development/a 106.00                 106.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                      Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             3,729.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -16.33   -1.47
Total                                        3,713.51  930.33
of which has been repaid                     -76.90   -2.16
Total now outstanding                        3,639.78  928.17
Amount sold to third party           28.24
Amount repaid by third party        -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,606.67  928.17
Total undisbursed                            2,172.98  349.39   2,522.37
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business                  (US$ million) 
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material            48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                             114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  71.2       2.2       73.4
Total held by IFC                                    41.1      14.3       55.4
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   60.1              -       60.1



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                         9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                    14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                       16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                              18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                  20-21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                           21-22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                    23-24
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                  24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                 28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



ANNEX II
33                            page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes:  (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province.  The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the



34                            ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years.  Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in March 1983, a delay of about one year.  The Hlydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Jratun Seluna irrigation systems. Disbursements are
about 42% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date:  May 10, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 51,211 ha has been completed and the
balance of the area would be covered in three fiscal years 80/81 to 82/83.
The Cisedane drainage works have not commenced due to a delay in the acquisi-
tion of construction to FY81/82.  Completion of this component of the project
is currently estimated to be delayed until 1984 subject to right-of-way
acquisition being completed early 1981. All studies are expected to be
completed end-1981. Disbursements are about 39% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date:  October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



- 36 -                          ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480  Fisheries Credit:  $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI-s skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 197Q;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor-s and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has pronosed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Mtillion Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to cormiplete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is delayed. PTP IV Estate management is undertaking the
acceleration of the civil works program. Tendering of main acess and primary
village roads is in process and works executed and supervised by Bina Marga
(Directorage General for Highway Construction) are expected to start early
1981. Upgrading of the Sungai Tiga Extension and Training Center is
proceeding expeditiously. The new management of PTP IV Estate is endeavoring
to accelerate and improve project execution.  Funds for executing the FY80/81
work program are available in the approved budget. Preparation of the FY81/82
budget is in process and its approval on time is expected.



- 38 -                          ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 11, 1980. The project's
smallholder component is currently about six months behind schedule because of
delays in mapping the smallholder area. This initial delay is expected to be
made up in the next two years. Other project components are approximately on
schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation. It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved.  Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



- 39 -
ANNEX IT
Page 13 of 2P, pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Not yet Effective;
Closing date: June 30, 1983
This loan has not yet been made effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: Februarv 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
T' - '     * 'm  (both ru!-ber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers anrd delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putib,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase IT) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sunge4 Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distrihuted from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-tine staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



_ 40 -                          ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1986
Thie project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Hleads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) MIillion Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



41 -                         ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule. The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily. On the whole, progress under this project (SEDP I) has been
satisfactory. The credit component of the project is expected to be fully
disbursed by end-1981, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed until about two years later. The undisbursed proceeds of this
credit are to be used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry.
It is expected that the present closing date will have to be postponed in
order that disbursements for the technical assistance component can be
completed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective. From the three
regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this project would be expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small



- 42 -                          ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has been in operation since
1974. A program designed to strengthen nonfinancial support services for
small scale enterprises (SSEs) would be implemented by the Ministry of
Industry. This is to be financed by $1 million from the proceeds of this
loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date:  May 11, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



- 43 -                       ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education 'iad Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country-s
principal civil service training institution. In the NEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMNS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



- 44                          ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. It
finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion and relocation of
26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 existing agricultural
in-service training centers; and the construction and furnishing and equipping
of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricultural in-service training
centers. It also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation. Physical implementation is
generally on schedule. A number of problems affecting educational aspects are
emerging; action is being taken to prevent them impeding project progress.
The fully staffed Project Implementation Unit is operating effectively.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980;  Effective Date:  January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of highi level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loani is expected to be Irawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of mediiii voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



_ 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by Mtarch 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



ANNEX II
- 46                          page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for turbine generators, ancillary plants, piling work,
and civil construction have all been signed. Bid documents for steelworks
and cladding were issued in August and are being evaluated. The tender
documents for marine works have been delayed due to a change in the design
concept. The revision in the scope of the marine works will increase
original appraisal estimates and final co0t Pstimates are being worked out.
Schedules are being revised in order to minimize delays. It is expected
that the overall delay in the commissioning date for the first unit will be
about three months. No delay is expected in the scheduled commissioning
date of the second unit.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan has only recently been declared effective. Tenders for
EHV lines and substations were issued in July 1980; bids were received in
December 1980. The issue of the documents was about ten weeks behind
schedule. Aerial survey has been completed. Profiling and tower spotting
in the field have commenced. Land for substations at Suralaya, Ungaran and
Gandul substations has been purchased. No delay is expect,--,I ia- rhe land
acquisition for the other substation at Bandung and tower locations. Design
and specifications for the Java control center are being finalized.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 345 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1980, 152 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 145 firms, with full capacity employment estimated at aroun,
12,000. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in protracted



ANNEX II
- 47                              Page 21 of 28 pages
disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than estimated at
appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been satisfactory. Some
adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies were nevertheless called
for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last project supervision
mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the Pulo Gadung induistrial
estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole admanistra-
tor. The closing date of the credit was therefore postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982 and the EPZ is expected to be conpleted within this period.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as nossible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Mtillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date:  September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effectave Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments have
increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As of
March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been commmitted. Disbuirsements halTe also
caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed by
September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.
POPULATION AND NMJTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34



_ 4                            ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).



49 -                        ANNEX 11
Page 23 of 28 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
withi consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.



- 50                          ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date:  April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mlapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartograplic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
T RANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGII. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 51 -                    ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
Decedber 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Mlillion Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demiand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



- 52 -                       ANNEX II
page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate
the full effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies,
which are underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the telephone network,
infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The hotel school and the practice
hotel are operating. Final designs for village improvements in Bualu and for
the new road from Bualu to Benoa are finished. The access road to Nusa Dua
from the airport is finished and the Denpasar by-pass road is scheduled for
completion shortly. The market for tourism to Bali has held up well in 1980;
hotel occupancy in international standard hotels exceeds 75%. The final
designs and tender documents for the first hotel at Nusa Dua to be built by
the national airline (Garuda) are complete, and construction is scheduled to
start shortly. The Bali Tourism Development Board (BTDB) is evaluating
additional minor infrastructure investments at Nusa Dua and possible
participation in several hotel projects to utilize the uncommitted portion of
the Credit.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,



- 53 -                     ANNFX IT
Page 27 of 28 pages
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about 1.4
million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in Surabaya
have been trained and are working in the imprc,ved kampungs. The project is
expected to be completed by December 1982.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructiiral facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surahaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs.  The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FYSO/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank-s assistance to GOI-s basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities.  A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



- 54 -                        ANNEX II
page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing.  All equipment supply and all major civil 'or%cs contracts have
been completed or are under execution.  Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is about six months behind schedul.e because of the
delay by GOI in meeting the conditions for loan effectiveness. However,
detailed designs and preparation of procurement documents for six cities were
substantially completed in 1980, bids were received and are being evaluated
for most equipment, and tender documents for civil works are under review.
Documentation and administrative details for land acquisition and establish-
ment of on-site project offices have been completed, but the rupiah funds
requested to meet the expenditures were not released by GOI as of the last
supervision mission. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven berLeficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
mouitorinz the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload.  Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



- 55 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK CORRIDOR PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   GOI with consultant assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:         1976
(d)  First Bank mission to identify the
project:                                July 1977
(e)  Dates of departure of appraisal
mission:                                April 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  June 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          December 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
GOT will:
(a) provide funds to cover any shortfalls in the financing plan for
the Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project (para. 52);
(b) employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 57), and will retain such consultants for construction
supervision before notice to proceed is issued to contractors
for the road works (para. 53);
(c) take all necessary actions to acquire the land needed for pro-
ject implementation in accordance with the detailed work program
and timetable for these activities (para. 54);



- 56 -
(d) take timely action and keep hardship at a minimum in relocating
households and businesses presently located within the required
right-of-way for the project roads (para. 54);
(e)  enter into an agreement with Jasa Marga for operation and
maintenance of the new highway under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and will cover any shortfalls in
financing Jasa Marga-s operation and maintenance program for
the new highway (para. 55);
(f) cause the project roads to be maintained in accordance with
appropriate maintenance programs, and continue to improve the
maintenance of other public roads in the corridor, particularly
in the kabupatens of Bekasi and Karawang (para. 55);
(g) prepare a study of the structure and levels of tolls to be
proposed for the Jakarta-Cikampek toll road, and submit such
study to the Bank for its review (para. 41);
(h) monitor the effect of tolls on the use of the Jakarta-Cikampek
toll road, and take corrective steps in case the traffic diversion
from the existing highway would be lower than estimated to ensure
efficient utilization of the project roads (para. 62);
(i) take steps to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of
vehicles using the new highway would not exceed limits consistent
with the standards to which it has been designed (para. 55);
(j) develop a safety program for the project roads as part of its
national road safety scheme, and put the program into effect
when the road improvements are completed (para. 60); and
(k) prepare and carry out a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for
training of Jasa Marga staff (para. 55).
A special condition of effectiveness is that all conditions precedent to the
KFAED Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled (para. 64).



I BRD 15036
,or                                                                                                                                120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  tl4  4A UARYlM
tAARA- UAMPEK   ORQ   RJC
PROJECT LOCAtTIONqco o    poi
r                                                                                                                                                                       fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z:ipvSovs $0041 eO RIAO  p1P0V(SSh tz3TSN
.206.,  6. 4* WRSWb.*4 olpA..  "A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~IRA~                            S~APp.kL  omme
r~~~~~20A  4?  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
-Q  20                                                                                                                        2. -~~~li.-R
AZ. ~    ~      SA
SSSsCC  N                                                                                                                -                     -         -~~~~~~~~~~~.    p.                           II4Z~  -Mw%
- -JAVA ~         r7
N cct ~   ~       ~     ~                                                                   CSSS       ANNY      ~    SL         YRNWN SS
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JKRACKME 0IHA 2D4T6A6LS



