40           O4 9- x
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3376-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 19, 1981
Transportation Division
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  - Rupiah (Rp)
US$1             Rp 625
Rp 100        = US$0.16
Rp 1 million  = US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
1 millimeter (mm)             =    0.04 inch
1 centimeter (cm)             -    0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                   =    13.28 feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)          =    35.28 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =    0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                -    2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                        0 Oc22 British gallons
0.26 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)               -    2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)          -    2.204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT         - Average Daily Traffic
BAPPENAS    - National Planning Council
CIPTA KARYA - Directorate General of Housing and Urban/Regional
Development (Ministry of Public Works)
DGH         - Directorate General of Highways
DKI         - Special Provincial Government of Jakarta
DPUK        - Kabupaten (District) Public Works Office
DPUP        - Provincial Public Works Office
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GOt         - Government os Indonesia
GNP         - Gross National Product
INDOC       - Project Preparation Consultants
JABOTABEK   - Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region
JASA MARGA  - P.T. (Persero) Jasa Marga (toll road corporation)
KFAED       - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MHA         - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC         - Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MPW         - Ministry of Public Works
NPV         - Net Present Value
OECF        - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PCU         - Passenger Car Unit
PJKA        - Indonesian State Railway
PPAR        - Project Performance Audit Report
REPELITA    - National Development Plan
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Sector Development Trends  . . . .    . . ..  ......          1
B.  Transport Development Plans and Financing   .  .  .           2
C.  Transport Sector Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
D.  Functional Organizations for Transport . . . . .   . . . .    7
E.  Development and Administration of Toll Roads . . . . . .      9
F. Experience Under Previous Bank Group Financed
Highway Projects   . . .  .  .  .  .....  . . . . . . .    10
II.  THE GREATER JAKARTA METROPOLITAN REGION.. . . . . . . . . . .    12
A.  Regional Development Trends        .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . 12
B.  Metropolitan Finance . .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . .  14
C.  Regional Planning  . . . . .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . 15
I9. Regional Transport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15
E.  Regional Development Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
B. Project Scope.....      .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .. 18
C. Detailed Project Description      .    .............    .     18
D. Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   . . . . . . .  22
E.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
F.  Implementation, Procurement, and Environmental Aspects .     25
G. Disbursement . . . . . . . . ..    .  .  .  .  .  . .   . . . . .  29
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.    General  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  29
A. Geea.....................        . .............. .29- .
This report is based on the findings of two Bank missions which visited
Indonesia in April-May and October-November 1980, comprising Messrs. P. Jensen
(engineer), T. Neuner (economist)(Bank), M. Powills and J. Revis (consultants)
on the first mission, and Messrs. P. Jensen (engineer), P. Levy (financial
analyst), and H. Peters (economist) on the second mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties, Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
B.  The Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
C.  Traffic Projections . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .  32
D.  Project Benefits  . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
E.  Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
F.  Financial Aspects .. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
G.  Project Risks . . .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .  . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
TABLES
1.   Road Transport Resources by Region
2.   National Government Budgets by Output Category, 1978/79 and 1979/80
3.   Gross Domestic Project by Industrial Origin
4.   Comparison of Regional Allocations under Repelita III and Proposed
Development Budgets in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region
5.   Government Agencies Involved in Transport in Jakarta and Surrounding
Kabupatens
6.   Estimated Regional Road Freight Flows
7.   DGH Geometric Highway Design Standards
8.   Project Costs
9.   Project Implementation Schedule
10.   Disbursement Schedule
11.   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway:  Traffic Volume Counts and Observed Traffic
Composition
12a.}
12b.} Traffic Forecasts
12c. }
13.   Vehicle Operating Costs
14a.}
14b.} Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams
14c.}
ANNEX
1. Related Documents and Data Av7ailable in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization of the Ceritral and Provincial Highway Administration
2. P.T. Jasa Marga Organization Chart
3. Observed Traffic Composition on the Jakarta-CLkampek Highway
MAP
IBRD 15036 - Jakarta-Cikampek Highway. Prcjcet Location and Highway Details



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Sector Development Trends
1.01      Indonesia, the world's largest archipelago nation, ranks fifth in
population with over 145 million people.    The archipelago extends some
5,000 km across the equator from northwestern Sumatra to Irian Jaya and
comprises over 13,000 islands of which Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi
are the largest. Indonesia has a total land area of 2 million sq km. The
extent of the country .zd its archipelagic nature imply diverse climatic
conditions, factor endowments and resource potentials. Economic integration
of the different regions and the pursuit of political and national uniity
among such diversity are important objectives of the Government of Indonesia
(GOI). Transportation has a leading role in this effort. Over the past
decade Indonesia has made great strides in developing its economy. Between
1971 and 1978 the gross domestic product (GDP) rose from Rp 5,600 billion to
Rp 9,250 billion, in real terms, an average annual growth rate of 7.4%. The
transport sector is estimated to have grown about 12% per annum during the
1970s and its contribution to GDP varied between 4% and 5%. GOI planners
predict the sector's share to increase to around 6% of GDP by the end of the
century which means a continuation of the annual growth trend of around 10%.
1.02      Within the Indonesian transport system road transport is the prin-
cipal mode. In terms of volumes, about 93% of all goods and about 99% of
all passengers transported in Indonesia in the mid-seven.ies were accommo-
dated by road. Road infrastructure expanded from 85,000 km to 115,000 km
between 1971 and 1977 while the annual growth of the road vehicle population
was about 15% for commercial vehicles and 22.5% for cars. Maritime trans-
port, including interisland ferries, is the second mode. Its importance
derives from the archipelago setting of the country. About 95% of all
freight movements and roughly 75% of all person-trips between the islands
are handled by sea transport. In 1977 there were about 7,800 vessels with a
total deadweight tonnage of 2.5 million available for interisland transport.
Domestic marine dry cargo traffic increased by roughly 15% annually during
the past decade. Approximately 300 ports and numerous landing points con-
stitute the basic infrastrujcture for maritime transport. The railway sys-
tem, the third mode in terms of importarnce, inicludes about 6,800 route-km.
During the 1970s the share of the railways in passenger and freight traffic
has declined substantially by <.s much as 45% and 20%, respectively.     In
1978, the railway system carried about 29 million passengers and 4.4 million
tons of freight. Lately, there has been a slight recovery from the earlier
losses in patronage. Domestic air transport increased rapidly during the
1970s; the average annual growth rate for passenger traffic was 22% and the
volume of cargo carried in 1978 was seven times higher than in 1970.      In
1978, Indonesian air carriers disposed of a fleet of about 550 aircraft
which carried about 4 million passengers during that year. River transport
has a potentially important role in addressing demand for movement of people



-2-
and goods in Indonesia. There are at least 10,000 km of navigable waterways
among about 50 river systems. By 1977, over 41,000 river craft of varying
size and capacity were registered.
B. Transport Development Plans and Financing
1.03      In 1969, GOI initiated its first five-year national development
plan, Repelita I, covering the period through 1973. About 15% of the
Repelita I resources was allocated to the transport sector, representing Rp
342 billion. Only Rp 297 billion were actually spent in the sector, and
rouahly 55% of this amount was invested in road development. Repelita II,
spanning the period between 1974 and 1978, initially provided Rp 500 billion
to the transport sector, which constituted 16% of the total development
effort; Rp 753 billion were actually spent. This sizeable increase of
expenditures was due to the extra revenue accruing to GOI after the 1973 oil
price increase, which particularly benefitted the transport sector. Road
development accounted for about 42% of all expenditures in the transport
sector during Repelita II. GOI's explicit policy for the sector during the
period 1969-78 emphasized rehabilitation and improvement of existing
transport infrastructure and services rather than an extension of the
network and expansion of the transport industry. Repelita III, covering the
period between 1979 and 1983, provides for Rp 2,998 billion to be invested
in transport development; this represents about 14% of the total plan
effort. Proposed expenditures for road infrastructure constitute more than
half of the allocation to the transport sector under Repelita III. The
increased share for roads over the corresponding allocation under Repelita
II is partly attributable to GOI's new emphasis on rural roads as an
explicit component of the broader rural development strategy. The higher
share of investments in roads is compensated primarily by a decline in the
relative allocation for maritime transport.   Compared with the provisions
under Repelita II, the allocation for air transport has also risen, while
funds available to the railways have been reduced.   These changes conform to
the growth experienced by the various modes in recent years - fast for
aviation and road transport, modest for shipping, and stagnant for railways.
It also reflects the need to improve modal performance in the light of
projected transport growth during Repelita III, viz. 20% in air transport,
12% in road transport, 10% in sea transport, and 5% to 12% for various
categories of rail transport. There are additional transport sector
provisions in Repelita III which are not specified under the sector heading.
For instance, nearly Rp 600 billion of the Rp 2,100 billion to be allocated
by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to lower levels of government will be
spent on roads.
1.04      Despite increasing budget allocations to, and private investments
in, transport, the system's ability to effectively address existing and
evolving transport demand within the national economy remains far from



-3-
adequate. The country's enormous dimensions and the still uneven distribu-
tion of income within the national population make it extremely difficult
and expensive for GOI to pursue a transport strategy aimed at providing both
equal transport facilities to all segments of the population and transport
investments required by the accelerating economic development. This diffi-
culty is compounded by the high percentage of existing transport: infrastruc-
ture which is still badly deteriorated and needs considerable rehabilitation
and often upgrading to effectively fulfill its function. Also, serious
shortcomings exist in the management and operation of existing transport
infrastructure and services. As a result, the capacity potential of most
transport resources is underutilized. The wide variations in the availabil-
ity of transport infrastructure and services in the different regions of the
country aggravate the problems. Most regions where presently economic
activities and highest population densities are concentrated enjoy better
availability of transport infrastructure and services over other regions.
In particular, both Java and Sumatra dispose of an existing transport system
which is far more extensive than that of the other islands.
1.05      Due to historical trends, factor endowments and regional advantages,
Java and Sumatra generate the highest contributions to GDP; they also have the
highest population concentrations in the country. Table 1 provides an over-
view of the road transport infrastructure in the different parts of Indonesia.
Java and Sumatra rank highest in terms of road length and transport fleet.
Statistics for air and maritime transport compare similarly. In addition,
both islands have a network of railvways. GOI's difficult task is to ensure
that the transport requirements of the Java and Sumatra regional economies are
effectively met but at the same time a major effort is urgently required to
develop transport infrastructure a-nd services in other regions of the country
in order to spur local economic and social development. During the past
decade high proportions of the capital and current budgets have benefitted the
Java and Sumatra economies. Also, foreign and domestic private investments
were primarily made in Java and Sumatra. In the transport sector, an esti-
mated 65% of the national development budgets were spent in these two regional
economies. GOI is concerned about regional equity in the transport sector,
and local governments throughout the country are pressing to receive a fair
share of the annual budgets allocated to transport. On the other hand,
Sumatra and even more so Java are considerably burdened with the need to
integrate their sizeable populations into economic and social development.
The average per capita income of Java's population is still 10% below the
national average. To serve the overall transport needs of the regional popu-
lation requires continued public sector intervention.
1.06      Over the years GOI has introduced several measures aimed at over-
coming inefficiencies in the transport system. Among other things, GOI
provided subsidies in several instances where cost-based pricing for transport
services were thought to prevent many segments of the national population and
several remote regions from participating in economic and social development.
In particular, pioneer services were instituted, providing for subsidized
sea, air and land traClsport to underdeveloped regions of the country. But
capital and current budget allocations to the transport sector in order to



- 4 -
ensure adequate transport supply would be overwhelming. To fully comply, GOI
would have to divert funds allocated to other productive sectors, thereby
constraining the development of other elements of the national economy. As an
indication of the importance GOI attaches to the different elements of the
national economy and their respective development, the capital expenditure
budgets for fiscal years 1978/79 and 1979/80 are shown in Table 2.
C. Transport Sector Issues
1.07      GOI has sought and analyzed ways and means to improve the transport
system's countrywide performance to more effectively and equitably meet exist-
ing and evolving transport demand, subject to budget constraints. Several
areas have been identified as critical impediments to overall transport sector
performance. Essentially, they fall into four categories:
(a) inefficient utilization of existing transport facilities;
(b) uncoordinated and fragmented arrangements for transport
development planning and transport system management;
(c) a regulatory system which causes distortions in the consumption
of transport; and
(d) limited recovery of the costs of developing, operating and
maintaining transport infrastructure and services.
1.08      The Bank's transport sector survey carried out in 1980 has helped
identify transport sector issues and assess their consequences. In December
1980, extensive discussions took place between GOI and the Bank to review the
economic and social impact of transport sector shortcomings and scrutinize
possible ways of dealing with the problems.    GOI is now planning to prepare an
action program aimed at improving the performance of the transport system and
at controlling budget requirements Eor its management and development.    Sub-
stantial assistance will be required during this process, and the proposed
project will provide for initiating measures and arrangements to improve
transport systems performance in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region.
1.09      The key features of a desirable action program would be:
(a) improved management and operation of transport infrastructure
and services;
(b) coordinated procedures for transport development planning; and
(c)  reforms in transport regulation to improve system responsiveness
to transport demand by different population groups and segments of
the national economy, and to increase the recovery of costs incurred
in transport system development, maintenance and operation.



-5-
The expected effects of the different measures to be taken will be manifold.
A reduction of capital budget allocations will become possible as a result of
better utilization of existing transport infrastructure which will obviate the
need for constructing new facilities in many parts of the country for several
years.  Concerted transport planning procedures, in which central and local
governments will play complementary roles, will enable the assessment of the
appropriate timing for critically required transport network extensions, and
of the most cost-effective way of achieving suich extensions.   But improved
utilization of existing transport resources will necessitate substantially
increased current budget allocations for transport to meet the financial
requirements of appropriate routine and periodic maintenance and the efficient
operation of transport infrastructure.
1.10      A special effort is required to assess the costs and benefits of
the various subsidy schemes in the transport sector in light of broader fiscal
policy, and economic and social development objectives. At present, GOI-s
annual budgets are heavily burdened by substantial expenditures for direct and
indirect subsidies in the transport sector. The prime effect of all these
subsidies in the transport system is that funds available for developing,
maintaining and operating transport infrastructure are unduly limited. The
bulk of the subsidies is widely diffused in the prices for all transport
services and benefit more those elements of the population who are already
well provided with transport than those who are not, and those who can pay
more than those who are truly poor.   The first aim of IO]fs pricing policy in
the transport sector has been to control transport fares and tariffs in order
to reduce regional disparities in the availability and costs of transport.
However, this subsidy policy has not contributed significantly to economic
development and equity. Subsidies aimed at reducing regional transport dis-
parities have had limited impact in that they masked the real inefficiencies
in the system and impeded i, iovation in transport and the search for low-cost
solutions because cost reductions became less urgent as long as GOI covered
losses.  In addition, subsidies tended to be absorbed by operators and were
not always reflected in fares and tariffs. In the context of the proposed
action program for improving transport performance (para. 1.08), GOI plans to
review in depth its present subsidy policies with the aim to eliminate
generalized subsidies and to restrict the benefit of those subsidies, which
have been determined to be cost-effective, to particular regions or population
groups.  To achieve this goal GOI would have to establish a systemized
arrangement for analyzing the cost and the benefit of each subsidy and for
monitoring its actual impact on the targetted regions or beneficiaries.
Special studies have been initiated under Bank-financed highway and shipping
projects to review the subsidy schemes and formulate reform proposals directed
at improving cost recovery in the transport sector without limiting broader
economic and social development objectives.
1.11      The aggregate value of all direct and indirect subsidies in the
transport sector amounted to roughly 1% of the gross national product (GNP),
or Rp 300 billion in 1979. This amount represents cash subsidies out of the
annual budget. Ilowever, the implied economic subsidies are substantially
higher.  The economic subsidies for petroleum derivates used in transport



- 6 -
alone are estimated to have been Rp 750 billion in 1980, comparable to the
total transport development budget or about 2% of the GNP. About Rp 136
billicn of GOI subsidies were required to cover the difference between
production costs and sale revenues of fuel oil used in the transport sector.
In 1980, retail prices of gasoline and diesel (Rp 150 and Rp 53) were 36%
and 72% below world market rates, respectively. The already serious burden
on the national budget of all existing subsidies in the transport sector is
further aggravated by the fact that taxes levied on most users of the
transport system are far from covering the development costs of the network.
For instance, in FY1980 GOI invested Rp 400 billion to develop arld maintain
the road infrastructure whereas road users contributed only Rp 190 billion
to these expenditures. The situation in the other subsectors is similar.
The tax regime thus provides for an implicit and significant additional
subsidy to transport as a whole. In particular, commercial vehicles are
subject to extremely low taxes with the result that they contribute only 2%
to the cost of developing and maintaining road infrastructure while
accounting for almost 80% of total road traffic. A first review of the road
user taxation system has been carried out by consultants under the Fourth
Highway Project (para. 1.26). Another consultant team financed under the
Filth Highway Project (para. 1.27) is presently formulating reform proposals
aimed at improving cost recovery in road transport.
1.12      As a first measure to improve the recovery of capital and current
expenditures for transport, GOI has decided to single out the richer popu-
lation groups in Java and Sumatra which have benefitted from high sector
allocations in the past and advanced rapidly in economic and social develop-
ment. It plans to gradually introduce a pricing system for the use of
selected network extensions which would imply that users participate more in
the costs of constructing and maintaining these extensions.    Such extensions
will be established and operated as high capacity toll roads; their layouts
will ensure significant benefits to the regional economies. A considerable
proportion of these benefits will accrue to population groups and businesses
which can afford to pay the proposed tolls. But the expected impact of the
toll roads will not be limited to enhancing efficiency in the functioning of
the regional economies; there will also be a broad social impact in that
traffic diverting to the toll roads will induce decongestion of existing roads
in densely populated areas. GOI plans to capture the effect of decongestion
by promoting public transport, which would be extremely difficult to develop
without the extra capacity provided through the proposed toll roads.
1.13      The areas to benefit fromn the toll road developraent program are
the already well established economic growth poles in Java and Sumatra.
Included in the program are the greater metropolitan areas and hinterlands
of Jakarta, Bandung and Surabaya in Java and of Mledan in Sumatra. As a
further step to relieving its budgets from financial requirements of the
transport sector, GOI intends to finance the necessary investments for sec-
tions of the proposed toll road development program partially through bonds
floated in the domestic capital market. The proposed project will contrib-
ute to increasing cost recovery from road transport using toll facilities.



-7-
D. Functional Organizations for Transport
1.14      Three government agencies have prime responsibility for developing
the transport system and organizing its operation. The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) plans, regulates and controls all transport modes,
except highways. Development, maintenance, and administration of the road
system are in the hands of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), through its
Directorate General of Highways (DGH). The national planning agency, Badan
Perencanaan Nasional (BAPPENAS), reviews sectoral investment plans drawn up
by MOC and MPW and prepares jointly with the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
related financing plans under the development budget. Both MOC and MPW are
large bureaucracies, whereas BAPPENAS is a small organization of about 100
professionals, with less than ten for transport. DGH has some 4,000
employees, including a significant proportion of Indonesia's civil engineers.
MPW½-s own organization is replicated at the provincial and kabupaten
(district) levels by integrated public works organizations (DPUPs and DPUKs)
which report directly to the chiefs of the provincial and kabupaten govern-
ments, which in turn are under MRA. DPUPs have a functional relationship
with MPW; the Ministry provides them with technical direction and some of
their senior staff. DPUKs submit their road plans to the DPUP for review,
but they are technically quite independent.   The organization of the central
and provincial public works organizations in relation to highway
administration is shown in Chart 1.
Planning
1.15      The planning process varies among the modes in MOC.    For some of
the modes, especially lesser ports, river transport and ferries, the central
authorities receive proposals for improvements from regional offices and
these are then combined in Jakarta into an overall program for each mode.
Major port installations and ship supply are planned with some attempt to
integrate the two systems. The aviation sector uses the most systematic
planning and considerable coordination takes -place with plans for other
modes, particularly at the regional level. Major investments under the MOC
are subject to feasibility studies. MOC organizes periodic meetings with
provincial authorities to review its development proposals but in the past
MPW was not formally represented on these occasions although the provincial
road authorities do participate. The proposed project will provide for
arrangements aimed at improving inter-agency coordination in transport
systems management and development planning for the Greater Jakarta Metro-
politan Region.
1.16      Highway planning within MPW is most sophisticated and centralized.
For some years, DGH has prepared annually a detailed five-year program for
all national and provincial roads, totalling about 40,000 km. These programs
were based on complete road and bridge inventories and on economic projec-
tions for all kabupatens in the country. The programs outline the appro-
priate treatment for each road section, ranging from maintenance, support
works (heavy deferred maintenance), betterment works (improvement on existing



-8-
alignment) to new construction. Regional development has always been a
significant factor in DGH planning, but there was limited allowance in the
analyses for the potential role of other transport modes. In 1979, DGH
shifted its long range planning functions to the Directorate General of
Housing and Urban/Regional Development (Cipta Karya), one of the main depart-
ments of MPW. Cipta Karya has also assumed responsibility for planning
guidelines for expanded assistance by GOI to district roads. A national
inventory of 70,000 km of distriet roads is underway and Cipta Karya pro-
poses to develop with DGH a road programming system for such roads, similar
to that for national and provincial roads. The road planning system thus
has a well-defined theoretical framework but it depends on large volumes of
information being fed into one central location. Until recently the system
allowed little scope for priorities and needs as articulated by the provincial
authorities. DGH also did not correlate its plans with those of other trans-
port agencies of GOI and instances have been cited of ports and airports
without adequate road access, nor did it have explicit discussions with other
technical ministries such as agriculture and industry to ensure coordination
with their plans. In pursuing transport sector work in Indonesia, the Bank
is giving special attention to arrangements for appropriate measures to
improve road planning, consistent with regional transport requirements.
1.17      DGH recently introduced a functional classification of roads in
accordance with regional hierarchies and distinguishing between arterial,
collector and feeder roads. This new classification is incorporated in the
national road law wlhich was passed by the National Assembly in December 1980.
The new law establishes the functional responsibilities and basic technical
criteria for road development and maintenance. The provisions of the law are
sound.
Construction and Maintenance of Infrastructure
1.18      As with planning for transport development, the construction and
maintenance of the transport infrastructure is the responsibility of MOC and
MPW. Typically, the national railways corporation (PJKA) performs these
functions for the railway system. MOC through its Directorate General of
Sea Communications looks after the expansion and maintenance of ports,
shipping lanes and other sea transport related installations; MOC's
Directorate General of Air Communications fulfills this function with respect
to airports, air control facilities and other air transport related
installations.
1.19      MIPW through DGH manages the expansion and maintenance of the road
system. Responsibility for highway construction lies with DGH's Directorate
of Construction and is executed under a variety of arrangements. The DPUPs
are responsible for road works financed under the pPovincial budgets. With
the expansion of its road betterment program, DGH plans to delegate the
technical and administrative authority for execution of most DGH-financed
road betterment projects or bridge replacement projects on national and
provincial roads to the DPUPs. Maintenance of the national and provincial
roads is carried out by the DPUPs.



-9-
1.20      DGH distinguislhes between unstable roads (roads in poor condition)
which require support works and represent the bulk of the network and stable
roads (roads in good condition) which require only routine maintenance.
Allocations for support works and routine maintenance are made from the
development budget.  Under DGH practice, activities such as ditch cleaning
and shoulder repair, normally included under routine maintenance, are not
applied to all parts of the network but only to stable roads, even though
they could obviate some of the large sums needed for support works. There
is an obvious lack of a conventional maintenance system, which is not pri-
marily a problem of available funds, because support works budgets could be
diverted to routine maintenance, but primarily a problem of organization and
administrative rules. Such road maintenance is executed by the lower tiers
of the administration and it is subject to complex restrictions in the use
of funds, supply of materials, and deployment of staff. This situation has
lead to the neglect of routine maintenance. The Fifth Highway Project
addresses these issues with DPUPs, and a rural roads project which is being
prepared by GOI for Bank assistance will incorporate more specific measures
to improve road maintenance in DPUKs.
Regulation
1.21      MOC has the sole responsibility for regulating the transport
industry, its expansion and operation. It is also MOC½s domain to control
and enforce the compliance of the different segments of the transport
industry with established rules and ordinances. Transport related fees,
tariffs, taxes and other charges are fixed and enforced by MOC in cooperation
with MOF.  Within MOC, the Directorate General of Sea Communications controls
the maritime sector, the Directorate General of Air Communications controls
the aviation sector, and the Directorate General of Land Communications
controls the trucking industry, public transport operation and the private
use of motor vehicles.
E. Development and Administration of Toll Roads
1.22      The new road law (para. 1.17) establishes the legal framework for
the administration of the proposed toll road system (para. 1.12).   The
relevant provisions of the law are that "... the Government will transfer
jurisdiction over the operationl of toll roads to a State Toll Road
Corporation." This provision is a confirmation of Government Regulation No. 4
of 1978 regarding the establishment of a "State Enterprise/ Corporation in
the Field of Management, Building and Mlaintenance of a Toll Road Network, and
the Operations Provisions". The regulation assigned the responsibility for
estab'lishing the toll road corporation to the Minister of Finance who in turn
delegated the authority to the Minister of Public Works. The enterprise was
officially established as the Indonesian Highway Corporation (Jasa Marga) on
March 1, 1978.  Legally, Jasa Marga is a Persero, i.e., a State Corporation
with limited liability. The act establishing Jasa Marga specifies that the
purpose and goal of the corporation are to manage, construct and maintain
toll roads. The basic capital of Jasa Marga is fixed at Rp 10 billion of
which GOI actually holds Rp 2 billion as preferred shares. The remaining Rp
8 billion are to be obtained throuLIgh the sale of common shares.



- 10 -
1.23      Jasa Marga officially assumed its functions in March 1978 by taking
over the collection of tolls on the Jakarta-Bogor-Ciawi (Jagorawi) Highway.
This highway was officially designated as toll road through Presidential
Decree No. 3 of 1978. The only other toll facility in Indonesia is the
Citarum Rajamandala Bridge near Bandung which was declared a toll bridge by
Presidential Decree No. 34 in 1979. Through its three years of existence,
Jasa Marga's activities have been limited to the collection of tolls on the
Jagorawi Highway and the Citarum Bridge. The design and construction of
toll facilities are being handled by DGH. In January 1981 DGH decided to
pass responsibility for maintaining the Jagorawi Highway to Jasa Marga.
While the legal, financial and institutional/operational arrangements have
been specified, it is presently not possible to fully assess the ability of
Jasa Marga to carry out this new responsibility. The organization of Jasa
Marga is shown in Chart 2.   The proposed project will assist DGH in
establishing sound institutional and procedural arrangements for Jasa Marga.
1.24      To date there are no overall criteria established for deciding
whether a proposed road should be made a toll facility. Likewise, no
explicit economic, financial or technical guidelines have been set for
establishing and adjusting the structure and levels of tolls levied on roads
or bridges. According to existing legislation, roads or bridges will be
declared toll facilities and toll levels fixed through Presidential Decree.
There is an obvious need to clarify and/or to formulate criteria for setting
the levels of tolls. The proposed project would help formulate such
criteria and guidelines. During negotiations, GOI agreed (i) to prepare a
study of the structure and levels of tolls to be proposed for the Jakarta-
Cikampek toll road, which will be constructed under the project, and (ii) to
submit a report on the study to the Bank for its review not later than six
months prior to opening of the first section of the toll road.
F. Experience under Previous Bank-Group Financed Highway Projects
1.25      Bank Group lending for 'iighways in Indonesia has been adapted to
the evolving needs of the highway system. The First Highway Project
($28 million, Credit 154-IND) helped restore communications in Indonesia after
a long period of neglect, by providing eqaipment and materials for rehabili-
tation of about 3,000 km of roads. The Second and Third Highway projects
supported the next phase of Indonesia's road program: construction of major
links in remote areas of the country. The Second Highway Project ($34 mil-
lion, Credit 260-IND) primarily helped rebuild a section of the TransSumatra
Highway in an area which is a major site for transmigration development
under the Second Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND). The Third Highway
Project ($14 million, Credit 388-IND) reconstructed a road to a new irri-
gation area in Sulawesi. It also included an important training component,
which initiated courses and set up a nationwide training system for highway
personnel, and studies and design of road improvements subsequently financed
under the Fourth Highway Project. The construction under the Second Highway
Project was completed in 1977 and under the Third Highway Project in



December 1978. As detailed in the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR)
SecM81-4, January 6, 1981, the second project had relatively small delays
and cost overruns, while the third project had significant delays
(mobilization problems in a very remote area and unusually wet weather)
and increased construction costs (due to underestimate of quantities and
sharp price increases after the oil price rise). The PPAR also noted the
importance of providing adequate leadership for and guidance to the study
team for regional development plans.
1.26      The Fourth Highvay Project ($130 million, Loan 1236-IND) repre-
sented a new departure in several ways. The project (a) sponsored the
establishment of four regional Road Betterment Offices; (b) supported a
large-scale and complex program for the betterment of existing roads;
(c) included assistance to strengthen virtually all functions of DGH;
(d) helped initiate studies of other institutions concerned with highways
such as provincial and kabupaten public works agencies, and consultants and
contractors engaged in highway works; and (e) provided for studies of
highway laws, road user charges, and vehicle weights and dimensions
regulations. The fourth project responded to the sudden increase in DGH½s
betterment program which was made possible by the new funds available to
Indonesia after the oil price rise in 1973. The project contributed not
only to providing matching funds for construction but also to helping DGH
cope with its expanded workload. Although the project is about two years
behind schedule because of the multiplicity of contracts, over 1,200 km of
road betterments have been put under contract, and 90% of the project had
been completed by mid 1981. Positive changes have also been effected in
planning, design, budgeting, and control procedures of DGH.
1.27      The Fifth Highway Project (US$130 million, Loan 1696-IND) partici-
pates in all important programs of DGH, particularly at the regional level.
The project includes: (a) components of DGH's bridge replacement program;
(b) road construction and maintenance works executed by eight provincial
public works organizations; (c) measures to study and improve the highway
institutions in some provincial governments;. (d) expenditures to upgrade
road maintenance; and (e) technical assistance to strengthen Indonesian
highway consultants and contractors. There have been start-up delays in
many components of the project. Road betterment contracts for 531 km out of
the 800 km planned have been awarded, and the balance was scheduled
for tendering in August 1981. Consultants are in place for construction'
supervision, project monitoring, management assistance, a study of the
construction industry, and assistance in transport planning and regulation,
and consultants are being mobilized for provision of teclhnical assistance to
MOC for a national highway safety scheme and development of new regulations
for vehicle weights and dimensions. The eight DPUP programs have been
defined and equipment tenders have been evaluated; however, increases in the
GOI budget for these programs will lead to an expansion of road works.



- 12 -
II. THE GREATER JAKARTA METROPOLITAN REGION
2.01      The Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region constitutes the most
important growth center within the Indonesian economy and has advanced more
rapidly in economic and social development than other regions of the
country. Greater Jakarta has benefitted from high budget allocations in the
past, particularly in the transport sector. But population growth and
expanding economic activities require a continuous increase in the capacity
of the road transport system to meet rising transport demand.  To improve
cost recovery oif road development outlays, GOI has decided to levy tolls on
key road extensions in Greater Jakarta. This decision is consistent with
GOI's new fiscal policy objectives in the transport sector (para. 1.12).
A. Regional Development Trends
2.02      Jakarta is the capital of Indonesia, located on the north coast
of Java (Map 150136). It constitutes a separate administrative province.
Together with the four surrounding kabupatens (districts) of the West Java
Province, Tangerang, Bogor, Bekasi and Karawang, it forms the Greater Jakarta
Metropolitan Region. About 30% of the country's maritime trade is handled in
the port of Tanjung Priok, located within Jakarta's city limits. Besides the
functions of a service and trade center for the country, Greater Jakarta has
increasingly assumed the lead in national manufacturing. Currently, about 6%
of the national GDP is produced in Jakarta; adding the immediate hinterlands,
the contribution of Greater Jakarta to the total national economic effort is
close to 10% (Table 3). In 1978, Jakarta had a total population of 6 mil-
lion, and the four surrounding kabupatens about 5.6 million. Compared with
the country's total population of about 145 million, more than 8% of all
Indonesians were living in the Greater Jakarta region. The presently
observed annual population growth of Greater Jakarta is in the order of
420,000, composed of 220,000 natural increase and 200,000 in-migration.
Jakarta and its hinterlands receive close to 40% of national migration and
account for as much as 46% of national urban growth. It is estimated that
Greater Jakarta will exceed 20 million inhabitants by the end of the century.
2.03      The total employment in Greater Jakarta was close to 3.4 million
in 1978, including about 1.75 million in Jakarta and 1.65 million in the
surrounding kabupatens. About 6.5% of all employment in Indonesia is
concentrated in the Jakarta growth center. For the year 2000 an employment
level of 8.5 million is projected. The regional GDP is expected to grow
faster than the national GDP to reach 11.5% of national GDP by the end of the
century. The large-scale manufacturing sector is expected to grow fastest,
leading to further regional specialization. Reflecting the booming economy
of Jakarta and its satellite kabupatens are the observed increases in per
capita income, which is about 10% above the national average.



- 13 -
2.04      There has been a considerable difference in population and
economic growth within the regional system of Greater Jakarta. While
Jakarta's population increased about 4% per year between 1971 and 1978, the
surrounding kabupatens experienced annual growth rates as follows: Bogor
3.1%, Tangerang 2.4%, Bekasi 1.8% and Karawang 2.0%. Such of the growth in
the kabupatens has been generated by the overspill of new manufacturing jobs
from Jakarta along the national roads to the east and west due to the com-
paratively low cost of industrial land further out from Jakarta along these
routes. The kabupatens around Jakarta are still considerably rural in
character with almost two-thirds of employment in agriculture and about 25%
in trade and services. Less than 5% of the kabupaten population is
presently employed in modern manufacturing jobs. Projections have been made
of population growth in the region and these are based on trends in natural
increase and intraregional migration, and the likely employment creation
across the region. The population growth of Jakarta is expected to slow
whilst the surrournding kabupatens will increasingly account for the overflow
of Jakarta population, particularly Tangerang and Bekasi which are expected
to expand their roles in the metropolitan Jakarta system. The estimated
interregional population increases are as follows:
Average annual
1978        1993         2003    increase (%)
Jakarta       6,005,160   9,720,000  11,315,000      2.6
Bogor         2,278,470   3,903,000   4,398,000       2.7
Tangerang     1,257,210   2,041,000   2,819,000       3.3
Bekasi          949,690   1,721,000   2,258,000       3.5
Karawang      1,003,000   1,517,000   1,999,000       2.8
2.05      From a review of key economic activities in the Jakarta region,
their recent trends and likely future development, it is envisaged that a
deconcentration of leading economic activities from Jakarta to the surround-
ing kabupatens is likely to occur. There are several features in this
forecast pattern of regional development which would contribute to the
longer term structure of the regional hierarchy. This is largely due to the
rapidly increasing expansion of economic activities, growing demand on
Jakarta to fulfill its function as principal trade center of the country,
and a population which increases daily by about 600, all of which has put an
enormous pressure on Jakarta's infrastructure and finances. Jakarta has
reached a population size and growth trend which causes the urban economy to
become increasingly inefficient. In addition, growing demand for land,
infrastructure and basic services will rapidly limit Jakarta's ability to
meet such needs equitably, given its actuial resource constraints. The con-
sequences of changes in regional hierarchy will include substantial



- 14 -
restructuring in the subregional economies. The relative share of
agriculture as part of the economic activities in the suburban kabupatens
will decline, and the importance of other activities will increase, notably
that of manufacturing.    The expected percentage changes in employment by
sector in three subregional economies are as follows:
Jakarta         Tangerang            Bekasi
1978     1993      1978     1993     1978     1993
Agriculture                  2.9      1.7     10.7       4.0     22.1      9.0
Manufacturing               10.6      9.7     46.6      51.7     32.0     46.2
Government                  12.7     12.2     16.0      9.3       9.8      9.8
Trade and services          73.8     76.4     26.7     35.0      36.0     35.0
Total employment      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
The projected changes will have the highest impact on Bekasi where required
structural adjustments to accommodate population growth and to provide the
required infrastructure for rapidly expanding economic activities will be
considerable.
B. Metropolitan Finance
2.06      Substantial budgetary allocations will be necessary to meet the
financial requirements of the structural adjustments in the regional economy.
Several plans have been drawn up to establish the infrastructure which will
be necessary to adjust the region to anticipated population shifts and
spatial changes in the location of economic activities.   The estimated costs
of some of the major related projects and the regional development budget
allocations in Repelita III are shown in Table 4. The estimated investment
requirements of the transport system alone represent almost 70% of the total
development budget for the region. There is a resource gap of 36% in the
capital budget requirements. The regional economy is already receiving 40%
of all investments in urban areas in Indonesia, and 30% of private
investment throughout the national economy. Over the last six years, GOI
expenditures in Jakarta alone have amounted to 15% of all national public
development expenditures. Looking at the current budget requirements of
maintaining and operating public services and infrastructure in the region
an even bleaker picture emerges. The local governments of both Jakarta and
the surrounding kabupatens require substantial transfers from GOI to cope
with their responsibilities. Total GOI transfers to Jakarta have increased
at 10.6% annually in real terms between 1972 and 1978. They presently



- 15 -
amount to 27% of all revenues accruing to Jakarta's government. More than
50% of the annual revenues available to the kabupaten governments in the
region come from GOI in the form of subsidies. Reforms are urgently
required to increase the region's internal revenue base and to reduce the
costs of coping with the development and maintenance of the regional
economy, essentially through better regional management. GOI has become
increasingly concerned about the growing proportions of the annual national
budgets which have to be allocated to Greater Jakarta.
C. Regional Planning
2.07      In 1976 a planning team was established under a Presidential
Instruction. This team includes representatives of central and local gov-
ernment institutions and has the mandate to draw up a development plan for
Jakarta and the kabupatens of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi. This area is
called JABOTABEK, an acronym formed of the first letters of Jakarta and the
names of these entities. The planning team was to review the regional and
sectoral development plans prepared by central and provincial government
agencies. The team was also to review the existing organizational arrange-
ments, the policy framework and general practices of managing the Greater
Jakarta Metropolitan Region. The Second Urban Development Project (Loan
1336-IND) provides technical assistance to the JABOTABEK planning team. The
team has already prepared a series of specific recommendations for control-
ling regional growth and improving management of the regional economy. GOI
is presently reviewing these recommendations; it is expected that several
reforms of existing practices and arrangements in regional management will
be instituted.  Specifically it is expected that an overall technical secre-
tariat will be established by mid-1982 supported by three specialist subcom-
mittees for transport, water resources, and land use planning. Furthermore,
there are indications that a regional development strategy will be adopted
in line with the JABOTABEK planning team's recommendations. The recommended
regional development strategy is based on obse*rved growth trends (para.
2.05) and identified locational advantages.
D. Regional Transport
2.08      A critical factor in the region's development is transport.  Through
.ts direct impact on land-use development, the regional transport system will
exert considerable influence on spatial growth. If Greater Jakarta is to
achieve a high economic efficiency, transport infrastructure and services must
be developed and maintained which respond to existing and emerging transport
demand generated by various economic activities. At the same time it is
mandatory that the regional transport system be geared to effectively address
the transport needs of all segments of the population. The region's existing



16 -
transport system is presently not meeting the above criteria. In several
zones, the transport system is reaching its capacity limnits, which will
increasingly restrain the development of economic activities and reduce or
limnit mobility of local population. There are also areas where existing
transport resources are totally inadequate in terms of spatial coverage and
service provision. The populations in such areas are almost completely
excluded from economic and social development.
2.09      One of the reasons for the poor state of the regional transport
system is the lack of appropriate arrangements for transport planning and
systemii management. Not fewer than 15 agencies have responsibilities for
'regional transport, including six central, one regional, and eight local
government institutions (Table 5). Of particular importance are the
relatively strong powers of central governmental agencies in the region and
the absence of any effective regional authority for coordinating their
policies and investment activities with those of local government and with
one another. As a result of diffused responsibilities for transport in the
region, sectoral development plans have been developed in the past which
were often based on conflicting objectives and strategies of the government
institutions involved in planning and implementing transport programs. This
is an important issue in the formulation of a cost-effective and demand-
responsive long-term development and management strategy for the regional
transport system. The emergence of an authority responsible for coordinat-
ing central, regional and local government policies and programs for
transport throughout the region would be a key component for such a strategy.
The proposed project will provide assistance for establishing appropriate
procedures and arrangements to plan and manage the development of transport
in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region.
F. Regional Development Strategy
2.10      As a consequence of emerging regional spatial growth trends (para.
2.04) the bulk of future industrial development and population growth will
take place to the east and west of Jakarta, extending along the existing
roads to Tangerang (to the west) and Cikampek (to the east). There is
general consensus that this represents the most efficient metropolitan
spatial development pattern within the context of regional topography and
factor endowments. The JABOTABEK planning team (para. 2.07) has come to the
same conclusion and recommends a "Guided Land Use" strategy to support these
trends in spatial growth. But the local transport network is progressively
becoming saturated and cannot support much growth. Also, the increasing
importance of Tanjung Priok as main gateway to Indonesia will attract and
generate more traffic than can be accommodated by the existing transport
infrastructure. Finally, interregional traffic, particularly in the
Jakarta-Cikampek corridor, has been growing rapidly and constitutes a
substantial burden to Jakarta's network (Table 6). There is presently no



- 17 -
alternative for interregional traffic but to pass through Jakarta.     Consider-
able new road capacity is required to accommodate increasing traffic volumes
and foster efficiency in the regional economy.    The capital requirements for
constructing additional road capacity are enormous, which is reflected by
the high proportion of Repelita III provisions to the region which has been
allocated to transport (para. 2.06). Clearly, local governments within
Greater Jakarta are not in a position to mobilize the required funds for
constructing the road network extensions, given their resource constraints
(para. 2.06). As a consequence, GOI would have to divert additional funds
from its annual national development budgets and earmark them for use in
Greater Jakarta to ensure that the required road network extensions are
constructed and maintained. The result would be that less development funds
would be available to other regions of the country.
2.11      Consistent with its transport sector policy of regional equity for
funding transport development (para. 1.12) and of improving recovery of the
costs of constructing, maintaining and operating transport infrastructure
(para. 1.09), GOI has decided to levy tolls on the major road network
extensions in Greater Jakarta. Details of the proposed regional toll road
system are shown on Map 150136. A substantial percentage of the construction
costs is intended to be financed through bond issues (para. 1.12). The
proposed financing arrangements for constructing, operating and maintaining
required road network extensions in Greater Jakarta would imply reduced need
for central government assistance in regional development. The revenue base
within the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region would be considerably
increased.
2.12      Within the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region additional road
capacity is most urgently required in the zone east of Jakarta. This zone
inclades the kabupatens of Bekasi and Karawang where substantial restructur-
ing r-f economic activities and increases of population have taken place
(paras. 2.04 and 2.05). Within both kabupatens transport demand has grown
rapidly and their transport system has also to accommodate the bulk of
interregional passenger and commodity flows in the Jakarta-Surabaya corridor.
Existing transport infrastructure traversing both kabupatens and connecting
them with Jakarta is limited to one highway and one railway line. Actual
traffic flows have reached capacity limit on the highway. The railway line
does not provide sufficient service to relieve the highway. As a consequence,
additional road capacity is urgently required to better meet transport demand
and to ensure continuation of spatial growth trends in economic activities
and population within the kabupatens of Bekasi and Karawang, in line with the
development strategy for Greater Jakarta (para. 2.11).
2.13      To meet the requirement of additional road capacity in the
kabupatens of Bekasi and Karawang, GOI has decided, to construct a toll road
between Jakarta and Cikampek. This toll road will traverse both kabupatens
and connect them with Jakarta. It will also constitute an improved link in
the Jakarta-Surabaya transport corridor and facilitate interregional road
traffic in Java. Construction of the Jakarta-Cikampek toll road will be a
major component of the proposed project.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The proposed project will provide the urgently required increase
in the capacity of the road network in the corridor between Jakarta and
Cikampek with provisions for high cost recovery.   In addition it will
improve the management of, and development planning for, the transport
system in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region.
B. Project Scope
3.02      The project comprises the following components:
(a) construction, including supervision, of (i) a new highway from
Jakarta to Cikampek with a length of 72 km, including about
34 km of collector and spur roads, and facilities for operating
the highway as a toll road; and (ii) betterment works on the
Bekasi-Cikampek section (63 km) of the existing Jakarta-Cikampek
road which the new highway would parallel;
(b) toll road management assistance; and
(c) arrangements for preparing pilot regional transport systems
management and development plans for Greater Jakarta,
The location of the two project roads is shown in map IBRD 15036.
C. Detailed Project Description
Civil Works
New Highway
3.03      In 1974-75, a proposal for a new highway connecting Jakarta and
Cikampek was studied in detail, and a thorough investigation of possible
alignme'nts was carried out. For this work, DGH received assistance from a
joint venture of two German consulting firms, Intertraffic and Lenzconsult.
The detailed engineering began in late 1977 and was financed under the
Fourth Highway Project.  Two German firms, Dorsch Consult and Haasconsult,
under the name of Arge INDOC, carried out the work in association with an
Indonesian consulting firm, P.T. Indec and Associates.



- 19 -
The final design, including all tender documents, was completed in January
1979. During the Bank's appraisal mission of May 1980 some additional work,
two spur roads and three more interchanges, which originally had been
planned to be built in a later construction stage, w.7as advanced for inclu-
sion in the initial construction phase. The detailed engineering of these
additions is currently underway with scheduled completion in August 1981.
3.04      The new highway is located to the south of the existing road, at a
distance ranging from 0.5 km to 10 km. For about three quarters of its
length, it runs parallel with and close to the Jatiluhur Irrigation Canal
(Map 150136). The highway is designed with an asphalt concrete pavement and
would have from 2 to 4 lanes at the initial stage; the most densely trafficked
section from Jakarta to Cibitung (Section A, 24.5 km) will have 4 lanes, and
the remainder (Section B from Cibitung to Karawang, 23.0 km, and Section C
from Karawang to Cikampek, 24.5 km) 2 lanes for the first 5-6 years after
opening. At a later stage two more lanes will be added as traffic volumes
increase. However, the full formation for 4 lanes will be constructed
during the initial stage on Section B, where the soil conditions are soft, to
permit longer time for settlements to occur before paving the two additional
lanes. The third construction stage is planned for the year 2000 in which 2
more lanes would be added between-Jakarta and Bekasi, the first 14 km
stretch of Section A. The design allows for an eventual expansion of the
highway to 8 lanes on Section A and to 6 lanes on Sections B and C. The
design has followed DGH geometric standards for Class I highways (Table 7)
with some reductions in shoulder width (2.5 m instead of 3.0 m) for the
entire road length and in lane width (3.60 m instead of 3.75 m) on Section A
passing through a more urbanized area than the other 2 sections.
3.05      The new highway will be fully access-controlled and all crossings
with other roads will be grade-separated. Access to the highway will be
provided at eight interchanges which will be constructed during the initial
stage. The interchanges are spaced from 3 to 8 km apart on the section
closest to Jakarta, and up to 18 km apart on the least trafficked section near
Cikampek. In addition to the interchanges, the project includes a number
of spur roads to provide connections to the existing road network. The spur
roads, with a total length of about 34 km, will be 2 lane roads with a
carriageway width of 7.0 m and two 2.0 m shoulders; about 20 km will be new
construction, and the remainder improvements to existing roads. The
carriageway will be paved with asphalt concrete. Grade separation will be
provided at three locations where the spur roads intersect with major
arterials in the Jakarta street network.
3.06      While the through traffic at the Cikampek end will continue
towards .Cirebon or Bandung along the existing national and provincial
highways, the traffic distribution at the Jakarta end will require special
measures. DGH will build a major interchange at the western terminal of the
toll road to handle the traffic between this road and the existing toll road



- 20 -
to Bogor, the arterial street system of Jakarta and the access road to Halim
International Airport, as well as the proposed intra-urban toll road system
(para. 2.11). The construction of the first phase of this interchange (the
so-called Jakarta Interclhange) will start shortly with financial assistance
from OECF (Japan). The startLng point of the Jakarta-Cikampek toll road is
located just east of the Jakarta Interchange and will therefore be easily
accessible from Jakarta as soon as it opens.
Existing Road.
3.07       After opening of the new highway, traffic remaining on the existing
road will continue to be substantial. The existing road is 78 km long
between Jakarta and Cikampek. The first 15 km section between Jakarta and
Bekasi has been upgraded in recent years; the remaining 63 km section from
Bekasi to Cikampek will be improved under the project.
3.08       The existing road has a 4-lane, 15 m wide, undivided carriageway
from Jakarta to Bekasi and 2 lanes with total width of 7 m beyond. The
pavement structure is sound and the surface is in good condition but there are
several sharp curves and many major at-grade road intersections. Road shoul-
ders are soft and narrow, and not suited for vehicular traffic. The existing
road provides direct access to adjacent properties in the townships and villa-
ges through which it passes.    Seven at-grade railway crossings represent a
major obstacle to the traffic flow because they have to be closed to road
traffic for more than 60 scheduled daily trains.
3.09       Detailed engineering for the betterment program was prepared in
1980 by the same consultants who establis'hed the detailed engineering for
the new highway (para. 3.03). The betterment program will alleviate most
of the adverse traffic conditions on the existing road. The program will
not directly affect the existing carriageway and traffic disruption during
construction should therefore not be a major problem. The program includes
the following components:
(a) construction of a 9.3 km long by-pass with 2 lanes around
Karawang avoiding the town center and two railway crossings;
(b) construction of one railway overpass;
(c) construction of a 2.2 km long road deviation along the railway
to avoid two railway crossings;
(d) construction of hard, bitumen sealed shoulders over the entire
length from Bekasi to Cikampek;
(e) low cost traffic management measures, such as intersection
improvements, pavement markings, road signs, and line delineators;
and
(f) drainage improvements.



- 21 -
Consulting Services
Construction Supervision
3.10      DGH is proposing to retain consultants to assist in construction
supervision. It is expected that Indonesian firms in joint venture with
expatriate consultants would provide a major manpower input to the
supervision team. The duration of these services will be at least five
years for the new road construction and about three to four years for the
betterment works on the existing road.
Toll Road Management
3.11      In connection with feasibility and preliminary engineering studies
of individual toll road sections over the last 4-5 years, the technical,
economic and financial aspects associated with levying tolls on the roads
have been studied. Based on the findings of these studies, DGH has drawn up
an overall framework for the development and implementation of a national
toll road program over the next 10 years. DGH finds that there is a need
for strengthening of the toll road authority Jasa Marga to cope more effi-
ciently with an eApanding work program and increasingly complex tasks and
responsibilities. DGH will therefore carry out, with assistance from con-
sultants, an action program which will help Jasa Mvarga in determining pro-
cedures and improving its capacity for efficient toll road operation. The
action program will review Jasa Marga's financial structure and objectives,
and its institutional and procedural arrangements. A training program will
be prepared for Jasa Marga staff in the fields of management, engineering,
finance, accounting, and traffic control. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that GOI will take steps to carry out such training programs
on a regular basis in step with the expansion of Jasa Marga's activities.
The total man-month requirements for the technical assistance have been
estimated at about 75 man-months, which will be financed under the project.
Regional Transport Systems Management and Development Plans
3.12      Institutional arrangements and responsibilities for transport
development and transport system management are highly diffused and
uncoordinated at the national level (para. 1.07) as well as at the regional
level (para. 2.10). This situation is increasingly hampering GOI's ability
to efficiently and equitably address existing and evolving transport demand
within the national economy. There is an urgent need to find ways and means
on how the transport system can be geared to fulfill its economic and social
role in regional development, without unduly diverting budget allocation
from other important sectors of the national economy. The basic strategy to
improve overall transport sector performance and responsiveness to actual and
projected transport demand, subject to budget constraints, would be:



- 22 -
(a)  to improve coordination among (i) central, regional and local
government line agencies with responsibilities for transport
planning and management, and (ii) transport service operators; and
(b)  to increase the participation of the regional transport
users in financing the costs of developing, operating
and maintaining such systems.
3.13       GOI recognizes the need for measures aimed at improving national
and regional transport development planning and system management (paras.
1.08, 1.09 and 2.07).   As a start on introducing such measures, the project
will help establish and implement arrangements for improved regional
transport planning and system management in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan
Region. Consequently, the project provides financing for about 75
man-months of related consulting services.
D. Project Costs
3.14      The total costs of the project, including contingency allowances and
land acquisition cost, are estimated at about US$357 million, of which about
US$182 million (or 51%) would represent the foreign exchange component.
Details are shown in Table 8 and a summary is given below.     The base cost
estimate is in June 1981 prices.    All costs were reviewed and confirmed
during loan negotiations. An estimated tax component of 14% is included in
the project costs.
3.15       Cost estimates for the civil works, i.e. construction of the new
highway and improvements on the existing road, were prepared by the design
consultants. The estimates are based on completed final engineering,/l
using unit prices established by detailed price analyses. This work was
combined with a review of unit prices for similar road works obtained from
international competitive bidding for two toll road projects with a total
length of 66 km, and more than 2,000 km of betterment works tendered during
the last two years. Land acquisition costs were assessed by the design
consultants from area requirements determined through the final engineering,
and basic prices of land as published by the local office of the Agraria, a
central land agency under MHA. The costs of relocating houses and
businesses (para. 3.23) are mission estimates, amounting to US$7,500 per
operation, on average.
/1 Except for three interchanges on the toll road and two spur roads, which
were added later and for which only preliminary cost estimates are
available (para. 3.03). The additions represent less than 15% of the
total costs of the civil works, and final engineering was scheduled
for completion in August 1981.



- 23 -
Project Costs
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Project component                   .Rp billion ----- ---- US$ million-
I. Civil Works
A. New highway              47.5    71.2   118.7    76.0   113.9    189.9
B. Existing road             3.6     5.4     9.0     5.8     8.6     14.4
Subtotal                 51.1    76.6   127.7    81.8   122.5   204.3
II. Consulting Services
A. Supervision               4.0     3.9     7.9     6.3      6.4    12.7
B. Studies & technical
assistance               0.2     0.8     1.2     0.4     1.2      1.6
Subtotal                  4.2     4.7     8.9     6.7     7.6     14.3
III. Contingencies
A. Physical                  5.6     8.1     13.7    8.9     13.0    21.9
B. Price                    28.5    24.0    52.5    45.7    38.3     84.0
Subtotal                 34.1    32.1    66.2    54.6    51.3   105.9
IV. Land Acquisition and
Property Compensation     19.5     0.5    20.0    31.1     0.9     32.0
Total Project Costs   108.9   113.9   222.8   174.2   182.3   356.5
3.16      The cost of c(,nstruction supervision is estimated at 8% of the
construction costs for the betterment works on the existing road and about
6% for construction of the new highway. For the existing road the
percentage corresponds to what was earmarked for the same type of work under
the Fifth Highway Project, while a lower percentage has been used for the
large-scale, high-cost, geographically concentrated work activities on the
new highway. In estimating these percentages, a major input from local
consultants has been considered.  Cost estimates for the studies and
technical assistance are based on estimates of the number of man-months
required taking into account that a higher proportion of these services than
of construction supervision would be provided by foreign consultants.  The
average man-month cost for expatriate consultants, including the cost of
travel and allowances (estimated at US$1,500 equivalent per man-month), is
about US$8,000-9,000. The man-month cost for Indonesian professionals is
about US$1,500-2,500 equivalent.  In addition to these costs, local



- 24 -
facilities, related equipment, and materials are estimated at US$500-1,000
per man-month for both Indonesian and expatriate professionals. All these
estimates are reasonable.
3.17      A contingency allowance of 10% has been added to cover quantity
increases on all items. For calculation of price contingencies for local
costs, specific projections for Indonesia have been used as follows: 9% for
the second half of 1981, 14% in 1982, and 10% p.a. thereafter. In accordance
with Bank guidelines, the foreign cost component was assumed to escalate at
different and somewhat lower rates as follows: 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7%
p.a. in the years 1983-85, and 6% p.a. thereafter. With cost estimates
based on mid-1981 prices and the proposed project implementation schedule
(Table 8), the assumed escalation rates result in total price contingencies
of 31% of the base cost (including land acquisition) plus physical
contingencies.
3.18      The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated
by the design consultants at about 60%. For consulting services the foreign
exchange component has been estimated on the basis of the anticipated partic-
ipation of foreign and local staff at 50% for construction supervision, and
80% for studies and technical assistance (where expatriate consultants would
provide most of the manpower). All these foreign exchange estimates are
reasonable.
E. Project Financing
3.19      The Bank loan of US$85 million will finance 24% of total project
costs, which corresponds to 47% of the estimated foreign exchange component.
The Bank loan will be applied to Section A of the toll road and the improve-
ments on the existing road, to the consulting services for construction
supervision of both roads, and to the consulting services for studies and
technical assistance. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED)
will finance US$60 million representing 17% of total project costs. The
KFAED loan will be applied to two sections, B and C, of the toll road, and
to the consulting services for construction supervision of both the toll
road and the betterment works on the existing road. The gap in financing
the entire foreign exchange component will amount to about US$37 million
which will be covered by GOI from a special account. GOI will finance its
part of the civil works on the existing road, including construction
supervision, as well as studies and technical assistance, from the
development budget.
3.20      All local costs for construction and supervision of the new
highway will be covered through a special GOI investment account. Land
acquisition, including costs for relocation of housing and businesses, for
both the toll road and the improvements on the existing road will be



- 25 -
financed out of a separate GOI account for this purpose. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that GOT will provide funds promptly to
cover its share of the project and any shortfalls in the financing plan
which might occur during project execution.   The total financing plan is
summarized below.
Project Financing Plan
Total      GOI         KFAED        IBRD
US$    US$   % of   US$   % of  US$   % of
Project component                  mln.   mln. total mln. total    mln. total
Construction of New Highway
Section A                       140.4   72.3   52    -      -    68.1   48
Sections B and C                142.1   87.0   61   55.1   39     -      -
Supervision                      18.0    9.0   50    4.5   25     4.5   25
Land acquisition and
property compensation          27.6   27.6  100    -       -    -      -
Subtotal                   328.1  195.9   60   59.6   18    72.6   22
Improvements of Existing Road
Improvement works                20.3   10.5   51    -      -     9.8   48
Supervision                       1.5    0.7   50    0.4    25    0.4   25
Land acquisition and
property compensation           4.4    4.4  100    -       -    -      -
Subtotal                    26.2   15.6   59    0.4    2    10.2   39
Studies and Technical
Assistance                        2.2    -     -     -       -    2.2  100
Total                      356.5  211.5   59   60.0    17   85.0   24
F.  Implementation, Procurement, and Environmental Aspects
Implementation
3.21      MPW, through its DGH, will be responsible for carrying out the
project, as in the five previous highway projects, except for the JABOTABEK
regional transport system management and development studies. DGH will be
supported by consultants for supervision of the construction work.
Consulting services will also be arranged for the toll road management



- 26 -
program and the regional transport studies. The details of the consulting
services for the regional transport studies will be decided collectively by
the GOI agencies (DGH, Cipta Karya, MOC, BAPPENAS, DKI, and the West Java
Provincial Government) who will constitute the subcommittee on transport to
be established   for the purpose of JABOTABEK planning (para.   2.07).  These
agencies would decide which agency among them would be administratively
responsible for the consultant contract. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that GOI would not issue notice to proceed to construction
contractors awarded contracts under the project, unless arrangements have
been finalized for retaining consultants for supervision.
3.22      Land acquisition for the new highway and for the two bypasses on
the existing road is currently underway. At negotiations, GOI provided a
status report on the land acquisition, and agreement was reached with GOI on
a satisfactory work program and timetable for the land acquisition.
Cadastral surveys of the affected areas are scheduled for completion in late
June 1981. The actual amounts to be paid in compensation are usually decided
in negotiations with the landowners, after which payment of compensation can
be initiated. Provided the surveys and negotiations are completed on
schedule, there will be almost one year before construction activities get
underway which should be adequate to complete the land acquisition.
3.23      Implementation of the proposed project would require the reloca-
tion of about 1,000 houses and businesses which are presently located within
the right-of-way required for upgrading the existing Jakarta-Cikampek
Highway and for constructing the new toll road. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached on compensation arrangements for households and businesses
which would be relocated. GOI gave assurances that timely action will be
taken to relocate the concerned households and businesses in a way that
implied hardship would be kept at a minimum and that no delays in
construction would be experienced.
3.24      DGH is planning to invite bids for the construction wonk during
the second half of 1981. Allowing three to four months for tender
preparation and four to five months for bid evaluation, it is expected that
construction would get underway in mid-1982. The first part of the new
highway to be opened will be the Jakarta-Bekasi West subsection of Section A
which is scheduled for completion in late 1985, followed by the remainder of
Section A in late 1986, and Sections B and C in mid-1987. The construction
time for the improvement work on the existing road is estimated at three to
four years with completion in late 1985. During loan negotiations,
agreement was reached with GOI on the proposed Project Implementatioll
Schedule (Table 9) and on arrangements for reporting progress including
preparation of a completion report within six months of the Closing Date.
3.25      Major road works are carried out with a blend of labor- and
capital-intensive methods which gives full recognition to the availability
of low-cost semiskilled labor in Indonesia, without undue sacrifice in the



- 27 -
quality and cost of the works.   The same methods will apply to the works to
be financed under the project, although it is anticipated that the
construction work on the new highway will tend to be more capital intensive
than on the existing road because of the much larger scope of work.
However, many construction operations are labor-oriented such as ditch and
shoulder excavation, and bridge and culvert construction. The overall scale
of the project will make a significant contribution to employment creation;
US$1 million of construction work is estimated to provide about 20 man-years
of skilled jobs and 100-150 man-years of semi-skilled jobs, or a total
number of man-years under the project of about 4,500 for skilled and about
25,000 for semiskilled workers.
3.26      Upon completion of the construction) DGH will hand over the new
highway to Jasa Marga for operation and maintenance. An agreement
stipulating the hand-over and financial arrangements will be entered into
between GOI and Jasa Marga. Under the agreed bidding documents, the
contractor on each road section, who will become thoroughly familiar with
local conditions, will be required to prepare an appropriate maintenance
program for the road section. Allowances have been made in the financial
projections for Jasa Marga for an adequate level of funding for this
purpose. However, assurances were obtained from GOI during loan
negotiations that it will cause the new highway to be maintained in
accordance with the accepted maintenance programs, that the terms and
conditions of the hand-over agreement will be satisfactory to the Bank, and
that it will cover any shortfalls in financing Jasa Marga-s operation and
maintenance program for the project road.
3.27      Maintenance of the existing road (and the two new bypasses) will
continue to be the responsibility of DGH's Directorate of Maintenance which
executes the field work through the West Java provincial public works
office. This office is also in charge of maintenance of other national and
provincial roads in the area while the kabupaten (district) roads are being
maintained by the kabupaten public works offices (DPUKs). Arrangements for
improved road maintenance are underway in the project area, partly assisted
by the Fifth Highway Project (para. 1.27) for national and provincial roads,
but there is a particular need to improve maintenance of the kabupaten roads
in the cnrTridor which includes the two kabupatens of Bekasi and Karawang.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOI will continue to take
steps to improve the maintenance of all public roads in the corridor area.
3.28      A study of vehicle weights and dimensions carried out under the
Fourth Highway Project led to the conclusions that it would be worthwhile
to allow larger and heavier vehicles with higher axle loads to operate on
the roads in Indonesia than the current regulations permit. MOC, assisted
by consultants financed under the Fifth Highway Project, is in the process
of preparing an action program to put the results of the study into effort.
The design of bridges and pavements on the new highway was carried out in
accordance with DGH's guidelines and design standards, and heavy vehicles



- 28 -
with axle loads of up to the proposed single axle load limit of 10 tons
could easily be accommodated on the highway. However, during negotiations,
GOI agreed to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using
the new highway will not exceed limits consistent with the standards to
which it had been designed.
Procurement
3.29      DGH intends to invite proposals from a short-list of consulting
firms for the supervision work and the consulting services for toll road
management assistance to be financed under the project, and for which DGH
will be responsible. Selection of consultants and award of contracts would
be made after a detailed evaluation of the proposals have been made. The
agency to be responsible for the JABOTABEK regional transport studies (para.
3.21) will follow the same procedure. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that GOI would employ qualified and experienced consultants accep-
table to the Bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.30      The road construction and improvement will be carried out under
unit price contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding by prequalified firms. Since the construction work will be financed
through a parallel financing arrangement by the Bank and KFAED, prequali-
fication of contractors will be made simultaneously but separately for the
respective parts of the works to be financed by the two co-lenders. The
Bank's procurement guidelines will be followed for the Bank-financed parts,
while KFAED will apply its own guidelines for international competitive
bidding for the parts of the works to which it would contribute. The
insertion of the general procurement notice in Development Forum was made in
late April 1981. The work on the new highway is divided into three contract
sections, and DGH will allow prequalified contractors to bid separately on
all three sections as well as on the section of the existing road. Separate
bid evaluation will be made for the sections financed by the Bank and KFAED,
respectively. These arrangements for tender evaluation and contract award
were agreed with GOI during negotiations. The proposed bidding documents
have been prepared and they contain appropriate provisions for price
adjustments, performance guarantees, etc.
Environmental Aspects
3.31      The project will overall produce better environmental conditions.
It has been carefully designed to avoid any significant adverse ecological
effects. The betterment works on the existing road will reduce congestion,
eliminate or reduce waiting time at railroad crossings, and thus reduce air
pollution, and what is more important, they should result in a reduced
accident rate. The new highway is generally located outside urban
settlements and although valuable agricultural land will have to be acquired
for the road's right-of-way, the disruptive effect of the selected alignment
is minimized. The new road will take a major part of the traffic in the



- 29 -
corridor, and this will in itself substantially improve the environmental
conditions on the existing road.   The alignment of the toll road    is running
parallel with and close to the Jatiluhur Irrigation Canal which already
constitutes a hindrance for north-south traffic movements. Overpasses on
the toll road will be provided for all important crossing roads in addition
to the interchanges, which also will allow access to the toll road.
Pedestrians are accommodated by sildewalks on the structures for vehicular
traffic but an additional number of overpasses has been provided exclusively
for the use of pedestrians, particularly to provide connection between
villages. Pedestrians will in several locations also be able to use
combined drainage and pedestrian culverts.
G. Disbursements
3.32      A schedule of estimated disbursements (Table 10) has been
prepared. It was reviewed and agreed with GOI during negotiations.
Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made on the basis of:
(a) 50% of the total construction expenditures for Section A (para.
3.04) of the toll road, and for the betterment works on the
existing road;
(b) 25% of the total expenditures for the consulting services for
construction supervision; and
(c) 100% of the total expenditures for all other consulting services.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. General
4.01     Implementation of this project will be an essential prerequisite to
spatial development in the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region, consistent
with the regional development strategy determined by the JABOTABEK planning
team (para. 2.07). Furthermore, improved transport infrastructure in the
Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor will enhance productivity in the subregional
economies of the kabupatens Bekasi and Karawang and substantially increase
mobility of all segments of the local population.
4.02     In addition to broad impacts on regional development, the project
will initiate studies aimed at transport systems management and development
planning. Finally, the project will provide GOI with an experimental basis



- 30 -
for increasing recovery of the costs associated with constructing, operating
and maintaining transport infrastructure. This is in line with GOI's
intentions to arrange for reducing subsidy requirements in the transport
sector (para. 1.12).
B. The Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor
4.03     The Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor constitutes a major development zone
radiating out to the east from Jakarta. It traverses the kabupatens of
Bekasi and Karawang. Substantial spillover of population and commercial/
industrial activities from Jakarta has been taking place within the corri-
dor; all indications are that this trend continues in an accelerating
fashion. Regional development plans have been drawn up which promote this
spontaneous trend (para. 2.07). Growing population and expanding economic
activities require adequate transportation to ensure access to markets and
mobility. Within the corridor there are only two transport links, the
Jakarta-Cikampek road and a railway line which forms a section of the
Jakarta-Surabaya railway. In both goods and passenger transport in the
corridor, the railways have a relatively minor share. Only 11.5% of all
person-trips generated within the corridor are made by rail, and about 5% of
all goods movements in the corridor are by rail. These percentages repre-
sent long distance transport, mostly with origins and destinations outside,
to the east of the corridor. Goods moved by rail are generally bulk commod-
ities. But person-trips and goods movements in the corridor are by and
large over short distances with origins and destinations inside the corri-
dor. Most goods are transported in small consignments, often with several
recipients per consignment. The railways cannot provide services to effi-
ciently meet transport demand characteristic for the corridor. Required
flexibility for person travel and goods movements within the corridor can
only be provided by road transport. As a consequence, the bulk of existing
and evolving transport demand in the corridor will have to be accommodated
within the road transport system.
4.04      The Jakarta-Cikampek road is the only existing infrastructure faci-
lity available for interregional and intrakabupaten road transport. More than
80% of the road is located in built-up areas with a mix of residential, com-
mercial and industrial land uses. Considerable traffic is generated and
attracted by these different land uses. In addition to its functions in the
transport system of the Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region, the road has to
accommodate traffic originating beyond the region in other parts of Java and
with destination in Jakarta or west of the metropolitan region. The growing
importance of the two kabupatens Bekasi and Karawang within the regional
economy (para. 2.05) can be demonstrated by changes in traffic on the Jakarta-
Cikampek road. The results of traffic volume counts and observed traffic
compositions on the road between 1969 and 1980 are given in Table 11. There
are principally four categories of motorized transport on the road:



31 -
(a)  passenger cars; partially privately owned, but a large proportion
is company or government transport for employees;
(b)  opelets; all forms of para-transit and small freight vehicles;
this category of transport represents the informal transport
sector in which small and sometimes unlicensed operators
provide transport services;
(c)  buses; units with 10 or more passenger capacity, operated by
private companies or government; and
(d)  trucks; units with 2 tons carrying capacity or more, with a mix
of owner/operator arrangements,
During the 1970s truck traffic has grown at 19% annually, on average; the
respective growth trends for passenger car, opelet and bus traffic were 14.5%,
26% and 11%. But there were marked variations in traffic growth and changes
in traffic composition along the road, which reflects different levels and
trends in urbanization and economic activities. In the section Jakarta-Bekasi
overall traffic grew fastest. The relation of total traffic on the Jakarta-
Bekasi section to total traffic near Cikampek has dropped from 1:0.59 to
1:0.46 between 1969 and 1980, which indicates the growing importance of local
traffic on the road.
4.05      While all categories of traffic on the Jakarta-Cikampek road have
grown in absolute terms, the relative mix of traffic has changed considerably
during the past decade. As is depicted in Chart 3 there has been a sizeable
increase of opelets in the composition of traffic, and the share of passenger
cars has dropped by almost 50% between 1969 and 1980. This suggests an
obvious shift in the composition of transport demand and signifies compara-
tively high subregional increases in lower income population groups. The
observed modal split of passenger travel in 1977 suggests that 93% of the
trips were made in all forms of public transport, and only 7% in passenger
cars. The shares of trucks and buses in total traffic have remained almost
unchanged during the 1970s.
4.06      The mixed functions the road has to fulfill and the diversity of
traffic which has to be accommodated, including a sizeable percentage of
non-motorized traffic, has increasingly been causing operational and capacity
problems. These problems are compounded by an often inadequate geometry of
the alignment and considerable roadside friction due to intensive residential
and commercial land use along the road. Under the project the road layout
will be improved, but there are limits to the extent to which such improve-
ments can be made. Substantial pavement widening and alignment relocation
could 6nly be done at the cost of major disruptions of residential and
commercial land use. Within these constraints, the proposed improvements to
the road could establish a maximum practical capacity of about 35,000
passenger car units (PCUs) per day.   Considering past and presently observed



32 -
traffic growth trends on the road, this capacity limit would be reached by
1985. Beyond that date further traHfic growth could not be accommodated
without imposing increasingly high economic and social cost on the regional
economy and population. Such a situation would make further regional
development difficult and endanger the achievement of regional development
strategies which have been selected (para. 2.11). Another demonstration of
the critical condition of the highway are rapidly growing accident rates.
Between 1972 and 1979 traffic accidents per 100 million vehicle-km on the road
grew from 45 to 98, implying an annual growth rate of about 12%.
C. Traffic Projections
4.07      The proposed toll road will provide the urgently required relief
for the regional transport system. Development of this new facility
will be in stages, in line with regional traffic growth. Three traffic
projections have been prepared for project appraisal, i.e.:
(a) a basic case which shows the number of vehicles on the existing and
new roads, with the assumption that the new road will be tolled at
rates presently used on the Jagorawi Toll Road (Rp 13/km for
vehicles under 2.5 tons, Rp 23/km for all others);
(b) alternative 1 where the new road is entirely free of tolls; and
(c)  alternative 2 in which the tolls on private cars, particularly on
the most expensive sections of the road (near Jakarta), are sharply
increased with a consequent reduction in this traffic while the
tolls for public transport vehicles are eliminated.
The basic case incorporates GOI's present position on tolls, alternative 1 the
optimum use of the road without revenue considerations, and alternative 2 a
toll variant emphasizing private car restraints. By 1990 road traffic in the
corridor is expected to have reached the equivalent of about 64,000 PCUs per
day. Under the three alternative arrangements of managing the road system in
the corridor, the following diversions of traffic from the existing
Jakarta-Cikampek road to the new highway have been calculated: (a) basic case,
66%; (b) alternative 1, 87%; arid (c) alternative 2, 67%.
4.08      In the absence of etnpirical data in Indonesia which would have per-
mitted establishment of elasticities between the level of tolls and the use of
a toll road, assumptions have been made regarding traffic diversions from the
existing road to the new highway. Based on these assumptions, 30% less traf-
fic than in the free road case will use the new highway during the first year
following project completion '1987), if tolls would be levied.  This
percentage will gradually decrease to 5% over a period of 15 years as delays
and increasing vehicle operating costs will gradually gain importance over



- 33 -
the level of tolls in driver decision-making regarding the use of the two road
links. Details of the traffic projections for the basic case and the two
alternatives are given in Tables 12a, 12b, and 12c. The consultants
analysis, which is reflected in the projections of this report, derived the
traffic forecast from disagaregated data on developments in the corridor.
Certain increments in goods and passenger traffic were projected to occur for
each location, and these were converted to vehicle movements by assumptions
about modal splits, size of vehicles in use, etc. The methodology is sound
and reasonable assumptions were used. The basic case reflects a growth of
about 5% annually in both passenger and freight vehicles with a declining
trend in later years. In calculating future passenger and commodity movements
in the corridor it has been assumed that the railways' share in accommodating
transport demand remains unchanged. Also, the modal split between the use of
passenger cars and public transport for passenger transport (para. 4.05) has
been assumed to remain unchanged.
D. Project Benefits
4.09      To determine the economic viability of the project, only vehicle
operating costs and travel time savings were considered as quantifiable
benefits. Both parameters were determined for the basic case and the two
alternatives for toll levels (para. 4.07). Vehicle operating costs in the
corridor without and with the new highway are shown in Table 13. For the
calculation of travel time savings, the following averages were assumed (1980
values) /1:
Passenger time value
Vehicle type               per vehicle hour
Passenger car                   Rp 1,500
Opelet                         Rp    720
Bus                            Rp 2,900
The project will also generate several nonquantifiable benefits such as
reduced air and noise pollution, and improved accessibility along the
existing Jakarta-Cikampek road. Further, much lower traffic should reduce
accidents on the old road, even though higher speeds both on the old and new
roads will create some added traffic hazards. During negotiations, GOI
agreed to develop a safety program for both these roads as part of its
national road safety scheme (para. 1.27) and to put it into effect when the
road construction and improvements are completed.
/1   Time costs for opelet and bus passengers are based on an hourly
wage for skilled laborers of Rp 500 and for unskilled laborers at
Rp 300.



- 34 -
E. Economic Analysis
4.10      The economic analysis includes a comparison of the associated costs
and benefits for the basic case and alternatives 1 and 2, as defined in
para. 4.07. All costs and benefits are net of taxes but include an upward
adjustment (shadow price) for petroleum derivatives which are priced in
Indonesia below world market rates (para. 1.11). No separate analysis was
carried out for improving the existing road alone since this road is about
to reach its capacity limit and cannot accommodate the projected traffic
growth. The cost streams for the basic case and the two alternatives are
essentially the same, except that the first alternative excludes roughly US$
36 million in investments for toll collection facilities and the costs of
operating the toll collection system. The cost stream includes the following:
(a) investments in the new highway;
(b)  investments in the existing road;
(c) investments in connecting and spur roads and bypasses;
(d) toll collection costs; and
(e) road maintenance costs.
4.11      For all three scenarios, the economic rates of return (ERRs) of the
proposed investments have been determived over a period of 20 years following
completion of the works. In addition, the net present values (NPVs) have been
calculated by discounting the estimated costs and expected benefits at 10%.
ERRs and NPVs have been calculated for each case under a wide variety of
assumptions regarding possible changes in estimated project costs and expected
project benefits. Under each set of assumptions, the ERRs and NPVs were
determined separately with and without travel time savings. The annual cost
and benefit streams are shown in Tables 14a, 14b, and 14c. The results of the
economic analysis are summarized rin the table below. The ERRs of the proposed
road infrastructure improve-ments in the Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor (basic case)
are about 23% if travel time savings are included in the expected benefits,
and about 15% without such time savings. Considering vehicle operating cost
reductions and time savings as benefits, the proposed investments would still
yield a return of 15% if only 50% of the assumed traffic diversion to the toll
road would actually materialize. The project would yield an ERR of 10% or
more, even if the benefits, calculated without time savings, were reduced by
about 45%.
4.12      If road infrastructure imaprovements in the Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor
would be arranged in line with alternatives 1 and 2 (para. 4.07) the following
ERRs would result: for alternative 1, 24.2% with time savings and 15.7%
without time savings, for alternative 2, 23.6% with time savings and 15.1%
without time savings. As can be seen, the ERRs for the basic case and the two
alternatives are quite similar. If use of the new highway would be free, a
steep rate of traffic diversion from the existing road would relatively



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK CORRIDOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis
With time savings                                    Without time savings
Construction       Operating     ERR       NPV /a      Construction       Operating     ERR      NPV /a
cost             cost        (%)     (Rp mln)          cost             cost        (%)     (Rp rfin)
Basic case as estimated     as estimated     23.1    211,078      as estimated     as estimated     14.9     62,919
(proposed      -20%         as estimated    26.7     232,530          -20%         as estimated    17.6      84,372
tolls)      +20%         as estimated    20.5     189,625          +20%         as estimated    12.9      41,467
as estimated         -20%        19.9     147,410      as estimated         -20%        12.4     28,883
as estimated         +20%        26.0     274,746      as estimated         +20%        17.1      96,956
-20%             +20%        29.8    296,198           -20%            +20%         20.1    118,408
+20%             -20%        17.5     125,957          +20%             -20%        10.5       7,430
Alter-      as estimated    as estimated     24.2    227,702      as estimated     as estimated     15.7     72,557
native 1       -20%        as estimated     27.9    249,155           -20%        as estimated     18.5     94,009
(no tolls)     +20%         as estimated    21.4     206,250          +20%         as estimated    13.5      51,104
as estimated         -20%        20.9     160,709      as estimated         -20%        13.1     36,593
as estimated         +20%        27.2     294,695      as estimated         +20%        18.0     108,520
-20%             +20%        31.3    316,148           -20%             +20%        21.1    129,973
+20%             -20%        18.4     139,257          +20%             -20%        11.1      15,140
Alter-      as estimated    as estimated     23.6    217,377      as estimated     as estimated     15.1     64,977
native 2        -20%        as estimated     27.2    238,829           -20%        as estimated     17.8     86,430
(alterna-      +20%         as estimnated   20.9     195,924          +20%         as estimated    13.0      43,525
tive     as estimated         -20%        20.3     152,449      as estimated         -20%        12.6      30,529
tolls)   as estimated         +20%         26.5    282,305      as estimated         +20%        17.3      99,425
-20%             +20%        30.4    303,757           -20%            +20%         20.3    120,377
+20%             -20%        17.9     130,997          +20%             -20%        10.6      9,077
/a  NPV was calculated with a discount rate of 10%.



- 36 -
quickly lead to high volume/capacity d,atios on the new highway which would
imply increasing travel times and vehicle operating costs. Corresponding
gains through reduced traffic volumes on the existing road would not be
sufficient enough to offset the decreasing benefits on the new highway. In
the case of alternative 2, fewer passenger cars would use the new highway
than in the basic case but the number of public transport vehicles would
increase because there would be no tolls for buses using the new highway.
The effects of both phenomena on benefits would cancel each other out.
F. Financial Aspects
4.13      Based on expected traffic flows on the new toll road, the associated
Jasa Marga (para. 1.20) income through toll revenues was calculated. The
assumed toll structure and levels correspond to those presently charged for
the use of the Jagorawi Toll Road (para. 4.07), annually adjusted by a 10%
increase. These assumptions imply a total cumulative income through toll
revenues of Rp 1,600 billion (US$2.6 billion) during the first 20 years
following the opening of the toll road. The simulated financial performance
of Jasa Marga during the period 1982-2005 reveals that enough income will be
generated through toll revenues to:
(a) cover the annual costs of operating and maintaining the toll road;
(b)  fully amortize (including debt servicing) the investments
required to construct the toll road; and
(c)  generate a cash surplus of Rp 460 billion (US$720 million).
It should be realized that Jasa Marga's expected financial performance was
simulated only to establish an understanding about the possible effects on
budget requirements of developing, operating and maintaining parts of the
regional road transport system. Several parameters in the simulation are
hypothetical and would require verification, e.g., traffic volumes on the toll
road and the existing road. But the general indication resulting from Jasa
Marga's projected cash flow clearly suggests that the project will substan-
tially contribute to GOI's sector policy objective of enhancing user contri-
bution to the costs of developing, operating and maintaining transport
infrastructure (para. 1.09), and increasing cost recovery.
G. Project Risks
4.14      The project has been thoroughly prepared; the proposed civil works
are based on detailed engineering by competent consultants (paras. 3.03 and



- 37 -
3.09). The objectives for improving transport systems management and develop-
ment planning have been agreed with GOI in principal terms. The only signifi-
cant risk under the project would refer to the use of the toll road. Decon-
gestion on the existing Jakarta-Cikampek road could be achieved only if
there would be a considerable traffic diversion to the toll road. Also, the
objective of recovering the costs of improving, operating and maintaining road
infrastructure within the corridor could be achieved only if sufficient reve-
nues would be collected for using the new toll road. To date only limited
experience exits in Indonesia concerning driver/operator decision-making
behavior and attitudes in the use of toll roads. So far, tolls have been
applied on only one road in Indonesia, the Jagorawi Toll Road (para. 1.23).
The nature of traffic on that road is quite different from that expected to
use the proposed Jakarta-Cikampek Toll Road; a significant proportion of
traffic on the Jagorawi Toll Road is recreational traffic. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached that GOI will closely monitor the effect
of tolls in the use of the proposed toll road. In case traffic diversion from
the existing road would be lower than required to ensure efficient utilization
of both roads, which would yield a minimum ERR of about 15% of the proposed
investment, GOI should undertake to take corrective steps, including
adjustmnents in the toll structure and level, and restraint measures for
certain categories of traffic on the existing road.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following loan
covenants:
(a) GOI will provide funds to cover any shortfalls in the financing
plan for the Jakarta-Cikampek Highway Project (para. 3.20);
(b) GOI will employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable
to the Bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.29), and will retain such consultants for construction
supervision before notice to proceed is issued to contractors
for the road works (para. 3.21);
(c) GOI will take all necessary actions to acquire the land needed
for project implementation in accordance with the detailed
work program and timetable for these activities (para. 3.22);
(d) GOI will take timely action and keep hardship at a minimum in
relocating households and businesses presently located within
the required right-of-way for the project roads (para. 3.23);
(e) GOI will enter into an agreement with Jasa Marga for operation
and maintenance of the new highway under terms and conditions



- 38 -
satisfactory to the Bank, and will cover any shortfalls in
financing Jasa Marga's operation and maintenance program for
the new highway (para. 3.26);
(f) GOT will cause the project roads to be maintained in accordance
with appropriate maintenance programs, and continue to improve
the maintenance of other public roads in the corridor, particularly
in the kabupatens of Bekasi and Karawang (paras. 3.26 and 3.27);
(g)  GOI will prepare a study of the structure and levels of tolls to
be proposed for the Jakarta-Cikampek toll road, and submit such
study to the Bank for its review (para. 1.24);
(h) GOI will monitor the effect of tolls on the use of the Jakarta-
Cikampek toll road, and take corrective steps in case the
traffic diversion from the existing highway would be lower than
estimated to ensure efficient utilization of the project roads
(para. 4.14);
(i)  GOI will take steps to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads
of vehicles using the new highway would not exceed limits con-
sistent with the standards to which it has been designed (para.
3.28);
(j) GOI will develop a safety program for the project roads as part
of its national road safety scheme, and put the program into
effect when the road improvements are completed (para. 4.09); and
(k) GOI will prepare and carry out a program, satisfactory to the
Bank, for training of Jasa Marga staff (para. 3.11).
5.02      During negotiations, GOI and the Bank reviewed and agreed on the
following:
(a) the cost estimates for the project (paras. 3.14-3.18),
and the schedule of estimated disbursements (para. 3.32);
(b) the project implementation scheduale and arrangements for
progress reporting and for preparation of a project completion
report (para. 3.24); and
(c)  procedures for tender evaluation and contract award (para. 3.30).
5.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$85 million equiva-
lent to the Government of Indonesia for a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years.



JIA2ARTA-CIKAM9pEK HICHWAY PROJECT
Reed To..... t R~ ....... by.-Rei..
(1.  (2)       (3)      (45      (5)       (6)        (7)        (H)         (93        (10)         (11)     (12)     (13)        (14)         (15)          (16)          (17)         (18)         (19)            (201)          (21.)           (22)              '73)
Ko r-do                         Xo good 11                          K. ..ph.1t                                                  T-1o        -erc    1    Reoilolerd                Reglot-rd cr201-                        06c
Ko       p-       Good H   Go Hoo.d 4   cderor-    A.ph.lt    Ko .oph.lt   4 gr-           ooC-r1.i.l -hiol.o oc -od -1977          -oorle         eilco          or I1-1cr                                6401    .      p ... -g.roere
Pop.-      Toe     roo       '01      od   o   ood_rI..   r-odope-     O,groOl     IHg--l     r.edo por            Oth-r                   To-1          eG~e          por k.      le-  ocher                                                                    --oril a~r.1  orllore otryoe-
1     -10 odo  p-r     popo-r-doeo         -doper       10 p.p.-    -d.      -d. p-      'TOppo      p       eoo,,r oc                  :rIo        pperOl-O   ,ro.d leo.de.-oooe      1  R.glo--rd        rreo     r     prlV          prkH      dO      pr       od
Ar-      (0011)     (o       qH      eic        (o         qh          alc         (o         qH          letloc          oo)ero1ek rT-o,o 6        -ohlole      Poplro          eod          oroo.y1,                 01    oooio      pploo          o   rl     ed     oet       od
(0q Ho)'    1976     1977    (3/1)     (3/2)     1977       (6/1))     (/)          17       (1211)        (12/2)   ... .oecrleor          l-e    (15-12+13±14)     (1)/2)       41)/H)         1977          1977         (1H/2)          (19/2)          (1/)(19/H)
*66  Zo46,290                        23,454   31,236  0.24      0.4H      4,96)       .11.       11.21       7,346     11.16         11,32    3,1035  23:17H       19.039     45,2),2         1.93          9.12        62,76)       214,1.31         2.H68.1                       12.65               19.016
C. Joys                   34,206    23,558    9,916   0.28     0,42      7,145      0.2)        11.30       H,2301    0.24          0.35     2,141    4.9)8    8  201H4       312W8          2)0           4.94        36,607       2481,353         1.56          10.14            5150
G.J-o                     47,922   2-7,1.03  10,71    0.22     W.3,9      7,496     11.16       0.24        9,276     0.19          0.334    2,104    23,796      299,372     45.172         1.67          6.G3        59066        340,543          2112.6                         7.HH               31.61
0G590                        5,367     1,663  2.111     0.31      1663       2.82        0.31        1.663     2.62         0.1       7,150   10.253       39,206     65,089         212.3        39.14        159,5911      319,634        29.74           63              959                20423
Yogyelker,t                 3,169    2,425     ,6     0.52     0.63        7H3      0.25        0.311        .041     0.33          0.40       306       413       3,27        4,546         1.73          5.H1         3.29)        31,66)          1.26          120              42                 190
ToldJob                  132,1H7   82,107    35,183  H.26     0.43      22,049     0.17         8.27      27,557      0.21         11.34    13.136   60.598     119,608     195.342          2.38         8.H6        321,40.1   1,17,3i..26        3.911          14.30           14.5H               33.38
SWatel                        3,561    2,293    2.33608.42       1.02       1,279     11.23       0.56        2,149     0.39          0.94       64H     1.677       5,H34       8,149         3.52          6.37          4,75)6/e    51,800/e        2.07          22.59            3.72               22.17
Aoeh                      55,392     2,226    5,0741  0.1.0    2.62      1,863      1.11        11.04       23771     0.04          1.07     1,093       399       2,786       4,278         092           2.30         2,698        35,7401         2.21          16.06            1.45                6.12
N. Sooltre                 10,7117   7,467    9,470  0.13      1.27      4,762      0,07        064         5,721     0.08          0.7,7    I1,998   3777         9.021      14,796         1.9           3.11        211004       153,6008.5215                                   52                  62
H.Sclr            996       2,99 4   4,9119  0.09     1.64      2,003      0,0         0.0         3,350     11.07         1.12        6      ,W          4,1114     7,9711         266           3 83         3:,6111      30,419          1,21          10.16            173                 6,20
RI..                      94,5"      1,043    2,H99  0.0)      1.57      1:4,45     W           0.70        1,1)3     0.01          11.60      46      1,10        4,632      6,235          3.0           42W          2,112        16,691103                      9.15            1.557
J o1.4 ,2                            1.103    2,1000           21         .12        .1           .2        1440      0.113         1.31       598       5116      1,9H7       3,141         2.S           2.01          1.5/c        9576811                       WH              0.1                 3.99
S.g-.ooer                l,t6       3,071    7,0881  0.07,    2.06      5,063      0.04        1.511       4,7)23    0.115         1.22     1,9)9    2,709        7,476      1)~4           3.4           2.07         9,H6;         9707-          2,59          13.29            2.53                4a9
Wegoo2,6                      67    2,688   0.12     474          968     0.09        0.71        1,4)7     0.117         2.57       154       176         839       1,62.6.1257                                            3o2;          046.4027.7
Lepo     331       ,3        ,1.00            .7       1,370     0.04         0.40        1,275     0.011        8.46        396    2,293        4,954      7,4             .3          5.8           260;         4   77           1.64          64.2            .6                  6.39
T-1olS-ctr-           473,606    23,511   30,699  50.0      1,64     19.929      0.04        0.95       21,77o     8.05          0.93    7Z,581   13,286       3650       57,376          2,44          2.08        4739         304oo           2,02           12.93            2.30                7.90
9. Gelfoe-t-              147,780    2,281    3,38)5 0.2       157        1,29)     0.111       0.70        2,04.4    0.012         0.90       234       666       1,W51       1.931         11,86         1.22           1,32       l7,)69          0.587.0184                                          .9
G.w GeIoeter              5261         82        0    0.OOH6   1.11        31.      0.002       0.39          232     0.811        11.29       ./A       0/,         0/A         N/A          N/A           l/A           N/A           11/4        1 1.7        110.84           )2.04                 9.22
0. Kelloeoteo:            37,660     1, 346   3117   0.03      1.1.)     1,4117     0.113       0.60        2,7        .4           1.1        1W      1,0          ,6          ,3            .3           2.)          313          2.21b         )I                             11                  1    2
5.4eoooe             02,440    2,866I   1,017  0.005     0.45        57       0.0o.2                     0      0.0113       0.31        249    2t393        5,325      7,967          3.49         13.3)         3,734        18,7016         1.64           0.20            6.25                0.39
To-e  eleto ~   586      764     80        .0        3.618     0.0         11.62       1,657     0.1           0,79       631/c   4.139/c     7,970/c   12)740/c        2,17/c        7.,5/c        8,17        6,09            1,39           ll.10           2,26                W-54
0. Seleo-o                19,023     1,099    3,657  0.40      1.94      1,603      0.119       11.89       1,462     80 0          0.77     1,476     1,307       4,084       6,791         3.18          4.03          1,4!./      10,283/e       11.74           2.39            0 W4                2.85
I. SolIceo                69,726     1,014    4,7511  11.07    4.68      2,078      11.13       2.05        1,727     0.02          1.78       300       489       1,739       2,458         2.42          1.1             67/o       9 6887/e       0.62           9.5)            0.30                2,114
S. Seleocot               72,701     )681     7,443  010:1     1.,31     4,097      8.06        8.72        3,758     0.5           1.66     1,16)       390       9:,384     10,936          1.3          26                Va7,3  1  9,8        5118               33           1  .6      .179
I.E. Solosl               2,66         75-,20        00        3.21        967      0.03        1.23          762     0.3           W958                   0       101        1.09           1.939         3.1.                      79) 587
Goe  eloo      189,216     9,379   18.370  0,10      1.96      8.825     0.11         11.94       7,7111    0,1           0.82     2,6      2,116       16,192     21.,274~        2.27          2.42         9,476       109,03           1,01          1.11.63          1.07                2.94
W. N ... t0egg-r            211,177    2,401    2,627   8.13     1.09       1,267     0.06        0.53        1,565     0.115         0.65       232       2011      2,215       2,647         1,10          1.95          1.,233/.     8,967/e        0.51            3.73           0.97                3,41
EK  Noet..   or              47,876    2,46)    7,629   0.16     3.10       2,199     0.05         0.89       2,177     0.111         0.88       820       537       1,39)       3,052          0.24         1.39          1..50l/e     4,71~1/        0.61            1.91           0.60                0.62
Msloko                      74,505     1,2118   2,M0)   0,0~2    1.43         629     0.01.        0.511        560     0.111         0.45        301       90          936      1,335          1.06         2.12          1,929        7,734          1.53            6,15           3.117               4.29
lrleo J.Oyo                421,901.    1,008    1,250   0.003    1.13         2)4     11.0111     0.25          333     0.001         0.33       263       945         927       2.1.35        2,1.2         4.06          3,009        7,609          3.78           7.55           13.111               6.69
Tota Iod-oeol       1,0,6       13028    11,0      0.06     .8.9      6On6       8.03        0.46       67,723     0.04          0.52    2858      8389       20,2        312799          2.40          5.20        399.681    1,733,276          3.07          13.301            6.65              15.04
/e 1976 do.-
7-b Ioclodee C. Xel eo o
7; Eloolde    C. Kelioaoteo
9W0-   .oedoeo-lode ko-e    dyecoodo.
iere..Dpr  ooPrbbos, Aole              o            P.eoo  peeocleio    I   k-to  P-rhebooe- D.. P- ....it.. (P0...4, 2974 S/D1 1.977), Boke   Toble 6.1.6;
Ge-t-e   S-te.r.ole  OtfO   . S           Y8lIe  Yeb.ok of lodo..oote, 1977, Table X 111.2.3, ood
Beo t-co  iot Report~, 1odoc..ole, Repor No. 2093-1Ill, Tbhle 1.1.
Apr11 1981



- 40 -
Table 2
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Government Development Budgets by Output Category, 1978/79 and 1979/80
(Current prices Rp x 1O0)
1978/79         1979/80
Agriculture and Irrigation                                 577.0           419.4
Agriculture                                              127.5           157.5
Irrigation                                               285.6           261.9
Industry                                                   163.9           401.9
Mining and Energy                                          323.8           392.9
Mining                                                    57.6            36.4
Energy                                                   266.2           356.5
Communications and Tourism                                 388.6           512.2
Roads                                                  }                 272.8
Land communications                                    }                  58.4
Sea communications                                     } 384.3           113.6
Air communications       *                                                52.7
Post and telecommunications                            }                   6.4
Tourism                                                    4.3             8.3
Trade and Cooperatives                                      11.2            25.5
Trade                                                      7.0             7.1
Cooperatives                                               4.2            18.4
Labor and Transmigration                                   121.9           165.6
Labor                                                     13.3            19.4
Transmigration                                           108.6           146.2
Regions, Villages and Cities                               271.1           330.1
Religion                                                     9.5            19.0
Youth, Culture and God                                     269.1           356.1
General education and youth                              237.8           316.7
Special education                                         19.9            25.5
National culture and God                                  11.4            13.9
Health, Social Welfare, Women and Family Planning           87.2           132.9
Health                                                    63.1            90.1
Social welfare                                            16.9            17.2
Population planning                                        7.2            25.6
Peoples' Housing and Settlement                             59.5            77.9
Peoples' housing                                          25.4             -
Water supply and sanitation                               34.1             -
Judiciary                                                   14.1            30.6
Defense and Security                                       115.6           254.3
Information and Press                                       11.8            17.4
Science, Technology and Research                            46.9            58.2
Science and technology                                    11.9             $.0
Research and statistics                                   35.0            53.2
Government's Apparatus                                      65.2           103.5
Total                                               2,454.7         3,297.0
Source: Nota Keuangan Tahun.
April 1981



- 41 -
Table 3
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAI4PEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin
(1976)
Greater Jakarta
Sector                        Indonesia        Jakarta        metropolitan region
----- (Rp billion) -------------------
Transportation                    663            100                    114
Agriculture                     4,812             28                    369
Mining and quarrying            2,930              6                     10
Manufacturing                   1,453            167                    232
Construction                      813             58                     76
Utilities                          98             22                     23
Trade                           2,871            187                    253
Finance                           207             81                     84
Government                      1,074            115                    124
Services, ex. GOI.                574            109                    137
Total                     15,495            873                  1,422
Source: Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan, 1980.
April 1981



- 42 -
Table 4
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Comparison of Regional Allocations under Repelita III and Proposed
Development Projects in the Greater Jakarta Region (1979 Prices)
Sector                  Project Description                      Cost (Rp x 109)
1.  TRANSPORTATION                                                   2,720.7
Roads, railways, buses                         336.9
Tollways                                     1,977.5
International Airport                          406.3
2.  WATER SUPPLY                                                        79.3
Jakarta Water Supply Stage 1                    42.0
Tangerang Water Supply - Masterplan
(two stages)                                  37.3
3.  SANITATION AND SEWERAGE                                            151.0
Jakarta Sanitary & Sewerage Program
First Stage                                     75.5
Sanitation/Sewerage                           59.1
Storm Water Drainage                           7.6
Sanitation Facilities                          5.3
Operation and Management                       3.5
Bogor Sewerage Masterplan                       15.0
4.  GREATER JAKARTA FLOOD CONTROL                                      318.8
E., W. Banjir Canal.s                          119.0
Cengkareng Drain                                15.4
Cakung Micro Drain                               6.3
Polders (Marunda, Sunter, Pademangan)           49.9
Cengkareng                                      12.0
Karang Drain                                    25.0
Cleaning Existing Drains                         5.1
Others                                          87.0
5.  ELECTRICITY                                                         94.5
6.  WATER RESOURCES                                                    536.0
Storage and Irrigation Works;
CJC Recommended Projects                     536.0
7.  HOUSING & RELATED                                                   45.4
Kampung Improvement Program                     32.1
Solid Waste Management                          12.6
Health Posts & Training                          0.7
Total                                                            3,945.7
Allocation under Repelita III                                        2,543.0
Resource gap                                                         1,402.7
Source: Cipta Karya.
April 1981



- 43 -
Table 5
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Agencies Involved in Transport in Jakarta and Surrounding Kabupatens
Agency                       Responsibilities
Central Government
BAPPENAS                     National economic planning.   Resource allocation.
Development of five-year plans.
Ministry of Communications
-  Land Transport            Regulation of bus, rail, ferry, river/lake trans-
port. National transport planning. Fare policies.
-  PJKA                      Planning and operation of national rail services.
Ministry of Public Works
-  DGH                       National and provincial highway planning, design,
construction and maintenance. Major urban road
planning.
-  Cipta Karya               Housing, building and urban and regional development
planning., Technical assistance to local governments.
-  P.T. Jasa Marga           Constructon, maintenance and operation of national
tollroads.
Regional Agencies
Jabotabek                    Advisory responsibility for Jabotabek regional
planning.
Local Government
DKI Jakarta
-  BAPPEDA                   Economic planning agency for Jakarta.   Budgetary
coordination.
-  Dinas Tata Kota           Physical planning for Jakarta.   Land use and street
development planning. Review and implementation of
the Master Plan.
-  DLLAJR                    Traffic engineering and management, regulation of
bus operation, vehicle inspection and enforcement
of vehicle weight restrictions.
-  PN PPD                    Operation of city bus services (with routes regu-
lated by DLLAJR and fares by Dit. Jen. Land
Transport) along with private bus companies.
-  Traffic Police Dept.      Vehicle registration, driver licensing, traffic
control, accidents and statistics.
-  Public Wiorks Dept.       Design and construction of public works, including
some road works.
-  Kampung Improvement       Includes street and footpath improvements in low-
Programme               cost kampung upgrading projects.
West Java BAPPEDA            Economic planning and budgeting for West Java
province.
April 1981



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAM4PEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Regional Roae Freight Flows, 1978
('000 tons p.a.)
Jakarta                 Jakarta-   Jakarta- Jakarta-     Total
Destination:     (excl.         Total   Tangerang   Bogor    Cikampek  external   Grand
Origin                        port)   Port  Jakarta  corridor   corridor  corridor   zones     total
Jakarta (excl. port)          10,000  484    10,484    1,279     3,764     2,026     7,069    17,553
Port                           3,052    -     3,052      218       642       346     1,206     4,258/b
Total Jakarta            13,052  484    13,536    1,497     4,406     2,372     8,275    21,811
Jakarta-Tangerang corridor     1,414   52     1,466        -        56        34        90     1,556
Jakarta-Bogor corridor         7,388  274     7,662      204         -        22       226     7,888
Jakarta-Cikampek corridor      5,084  189     5,273       30        18         -        48     5,321
Total External Zones     13,886  515    14,401      234        74        56       364    14,765
GRAND TOTAL             26,938   999/a  27,937    1,731     4,480     2,428     8,639    36,576
/a  Total port exports (1.234 million tons) less 60% of total incoming movements by rail.
/, Total port imports (4.906 million tons) less 90% of total outgoing movements by rail.
Source:  Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan, 1980.
April 1981.



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKANPEK IGHW4AY PROJECT
DGH Geometric Design Standards /a
Primary Highways                                       Secondary 11ighways                                        Feeder Roads
I                            II-A                      lI-B                        II-C                         III
Moun-                        Houn-                       Moun-                       Moun-                        Moun-
Terrain                         Flat   Rolling   tainotus    Flat  Rolling   tainous     Flat   Rolling   tainous    Flat   Rollinig  tainous     Flat   Rolling   tainotus
Average daily traffic (ADT)
in passenger car units                20,000                    6,000-20,000                1,500-8,000                   <2,000                       <1,000
Design speed (km/h)               120    100        80        100     80        60         80      60        40        60      40        30         60      40       30
Minimum right-of-way (m)          60      60        60         40      40       40         30      30        30         30     30        30         20      20        20
Pavement width (m)                 Minimutm 4 x 3.75            2 x 3.50 or 4 x 3.50           2 x 3.50                    2 x 3.00                      3.50-6.00/c
Minim,im median width (m)                 10                          1.5/b                         -                                                                             - 4
Shoulder width (m)              3.50    3.00      3.00       3.00   2.50      2.50       3.00    2.50      2.50      2.50    1.50      1.00              1.50-2.50/c
Paveimienit cross slape                   2%                          2%                           2%                          3%                           4%
Shoulder cross slope                      4%                          4%                           6%                          6%                           6%
Surfacing                        Asphaltic Concrete (AC)              AC                           /d                          /d                           /d
(hot mix)
Maximnum superelevation                  10%                          10%                         10%                         10%                          10%
Minimum horizontal radius (m)     560    350       210        350     210      .115       210     115        50        115     50        30        115      50        30
Maximum grade                     3%      5%        6%         4%      6%       7X         5%      7%        8%         6%     8%       10%         6%      8%       12%
/a Pavement struicture is designed in accordance with DGH's "A Guide for Pavement Design (Flexible)," 1974, No. 04/PO/BM, and for a design life of about ten years, unless
another design life would be warranted. Bridges are designed in accordance with DGH's "Standard Loading Specification for Highway Bridges," 12/1970.
/b Only for 4-lane highways.
/c According to condition.
Td Surfacing selected can vary from single bituminous surface treatment to asphaltic concrete on the basis of economic considerations.
Generally roads with the above design stanidards can be varied flexibly to suit special conditions of traffic, land use or terrain.
Source:  Directorate General of H1ighways, SLandard Document No. 13/1970.                                                                                                       |
April 1981



Table 8
- 46 -
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Costs
For-                 For-          Foreign
Local   eign  Total Local    eign  Total exchange
Project component                                         --- (Rp billion) -   - (US$ million) - component
I.   Civil Works
A. Jakarta-Cikampek Toll Road (New Construction)
1. Section A, Jakarta-Cibitung, 24.5 km               23.6   35.4   59.0   37.8   56.6   94.4     60
2. Section B, Cibitung-Karawang West, 23.0 km         12.8   19.0   31.8   20.4   30.5   50.9     60
3. Section C, Karawang West-Cikampek, 24.5 km         11.1   16.8   27.9   17.8   26.8   44.6     60
Subtotal A                                     47.5   71.2  118.7   76.0  113.9  189.9     60
B. Jakarta-Cikampek Existing Road (Improvements)
1. Section Bekasi-Cikampek, 63.0 km                    3.6    5.4    9.0    5.8    8.6   14.4     60
Total I                                         51.1   76.6  127.7  81.8  122.5  204.3     60
II.  Consulting Services
1. Supervision of IAl (6% of construction)             1.8    1.8    3.6    2.9    2.9    5.8     50
2. Supervision of IA2 (6X of construction)             1.0    0.9    1.9    1.5    1.5    3.0     50
3. Supervision of IA3 (6Z of construction)             0.8    0.9    1.7    1.4    1.4    2.8     50
Subtotal 1-3                                    3.6    3.6    7.2    5.8    5.8   11.6     50
4. Supervision of IBI (8% of construction)             0.4    0.3    0.7    0.5    0.6    1.1     50
5. Toll road management assistance                     0.1    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.6    0.8     80
6. Jabotabek regional transport studies                0.1    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.6    0.8     80
Total II                                        4.2     4.7   8.9    6.7    7.6   14.3    (53)
Total I + II                                    55.3   81.3  136.6  88.5  130.1  218.6     60
III. Contingencies
A. Physical (10X on all items)
1. For IA1, Section A, Jakarta-Cibitung                2.4    3.5    5.9    3.8    5.6    9.4     60
2. For IA2, Section B, Cibitung-Karawang West          1.3    1.9    3.2    2.0    3.1    5.1     60
3. For IA3, Section C, Karawang West-Cikampek          1.1    1.7    2.8    1.8    2.7    4.5     60
Subtotal 1-3                                    4.8     7.1  11.9    7.6   11.4   19.0     60
4. For IBI, existing road                              0.4    0.5    0.9    0.6    0.8    1.4     60
5. For II, consulting services                         0.4    0.5    0.9    0.7    0.8    1.5     53
Subtotal A                                      5.6    8.1   13.7    8.9   13.0   21.9     60
B. Price (35% in average on Total I + II + IIIA)
1. For IA1, Section A, Jakarta-Cibitung               12.3   10.6   22.9   19.7   16.9   36.6     46
2. For IA2, Section B, Cibitung-Karawang West          6.6    5.7   12.3   10.6    9.1   19.7     46
3. For IA3, Section C, Karawang West-Cikampek          5.8    5.0   10.8    9.3    8.0   17.3     46
Subtotal 1-3                                   24.7   21.3   46.0   39.6   34.0   73.6     46
4. For IB1, existing road                              1.5    1.3    2.8    2.4    2.1    4.5     47
5. For I1l, 2, 3 supervision (new road)                2.1    1.2    3.3    3.3    1.9    5.2     37
6. For II4, supervision (existing road)                0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.3     33
7. For II5, toll road management assistance            0.1    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2     50
8. For II6, Jabotabek regional transport studies       0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2     50
Subtotal B                                     28.5   24.0   52.5   45.7   38.3   84.0     46
Total III                                      34.1   32.1   66.2   54.6   51.3  105.9     46
Total I + II + III                              89.4  113.4  202.8  143.1  181.4  324.5    56
IV. Land Acquisition and Property Compensation
A. Jakarta-Cikampek Toll Road
1. Section A, Jakarta-Cibitung                         6.4    0.0    6.4   10.2    0.0   10.2      0
2. Section B, Cibitung-Karawang West                   3.1    0.0    3.1    5.0    0.0    5.0      0
3. Section C, Karawang West-Cikampek                   3.8    0.0    3.8    6.1    0.0    6.1      0
Subtotal A                                     13.3    0.0   13.3   21.3    0.0   21.3      0
B. Jakarta-Cikampek Existing Road
1. Section Bekasi-Cikampek                             0.2    0.0    0.2    0.3    0.0    0.3      0
Subtotal A + B                                 13.5    0.0   13.5   21.6    0.0   21.6      0
C. Relocation of Housing and Businesses                   4.2    0.5    4.7    6.7    0.8    7.5     10
D. Cadastral Surveys & Contingencies (10%)                1.8    0.0    1.8    2.8    0.1    2.9      4
Total IV                                       19.5    0.5   20.0   31.1    0.9   32.0      3
Total Cost of Project (I-IV)                   108.9  113.9  222.8  174.2  182.3  356.5    51
Notes: 1. June 1981 price level.
2. Rp costs which relate to US$ costs may not correspond exactly due to rounding of numbers.



47                                 Ta ble 9
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKANPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Inmplementation
Project item                                                    Start    Complete
I. Civil Works
A. Construction of Jakarta-Cikampek Toll Road and the
Improvements on the Existirg Road from Bekasi to
Cikampek
1.  Prequalification of contractors                       01/01/81  08/31/81
2.  Tendering                                              10/01/81  01/31/82
3. Receive and open bids, bid evaluation, Bank
co,-1currence, and award of contracts                02/01/82  06/15/82
4. Construction
a. Section A of Toll Road
Subsection Jakarta-Bekasi West                    08/01/82   12/31/85
Subsection Bekasi West-Cibitung                   08/01/82   12/31/86
b.  Sections B and C of toll road                        08/01/82  06/30/87
c.  Section Bekasi-Cikampek of existing road             08/01/82  12/31/85
II. Consulting Services /a
A.  Supervision of toll road                                 07/01/82  07/31/87
B.  Supervision of existing road                            07/01/82   01/31/86
C.  Toll road management assistance                         07/01/82   06/30/84
D.  Regional transport studies                               07/01/82  06/30/84
/a Appointment of new consultants is preceded by standard series of steps as
follows:
Days
1. Receive proposals                                                     42
2. Evaluate proposals and report                                         21
3. Approval of DGH or MOC procurement committee and IBRD concurrence     30
4. Invite consultants for negotiations                                   10
5. Complete contract negotiations and prepare initialed draft contract   14
6. Approval of government agencies and IBRD concurrence                  28
7. Arrangements for and signing contract                                  7
8. Issuance of notice to proceed                                          4
9. Consultants mobilization                                              42
Total                                                            198
If consulting services will be provided by extension of an existing con-
tract, steps 1-4 and 9 are either deleted or considerably shortened.
April 1981



- 48 -
Table 10
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative dis-
bursements at
IBRD fiscal year                                                 end of quarter
and quarter                                                     (US$ million)
1981/82
March 31, 1982                                                          0
June 30, 1982                                                        0.9
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                                   1.9
December 31, 1982                                                    3.3
March 31, 1983                                                       5.2
June 30, 1983                                                        7.9
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                                  11.6
December 31, 1983                                                    16.5
March 31, 1984                                                       22.5
June 30, 1984                                                       28.2
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                                  34.0
December 31, 1984                                                   39.7
March 31, 1985                                                       45.5
June 30, 1985                                                       51.2
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                                  57.0
December 31, 1985                                                    63.0
March 31, 1986                                                       68.4
June 30, 1986                                                       73.0
1986/87
September 30, 1986                                                  77.2
December 31, 1986                                                    80.5
March 31, 1987                                                       83.1
June 30, 1987                                                        84.1
1987/88
September 30, 1987                                                  85.0
Closing Date:   December 31, 1987
Source: Government/Bank estimate.
April 1981



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGUWAY PROJECT
Traffic Volume Counts and Observed Traffic Composition
Year of Traffic Count              1969          1          1974           1            1977            1           1980
Velicle Category           PC    0    B      TI    PC      0    B          I PC       0      B      T   I PC       0      B       T
Section                                          I                         I
1. Jakarta-Bekasi                                                                                       I
I                         I4
Total                         3,327        1           8,732         1           16,810           1          23,375
By category          765  469  554  1,539 11,641   1,814  858  4,419 13,028  4,378  1,205  8,199  13,388  5,872  1,933  12,542
Composition (%)       23   14   17     46 1    19    21    10     50 1   18     26      7     49  1   14     25      8      53
2. Bekasi-Cibitung
Total                         2,682        1           6,099         1           10,952           1          15,895
By category          847  313  201  1,321 11,409     864  650  3,176 11,573  2,159    990  6,230  11,952  3,994  1,756   8,193
Composition (%)       32   11    7     50 1   23      14   11     52 1   14     20      9     57  1   12     25     11      52
3. Cibitung-Karawang                             I                         I
Total                         1,965        1           4,957         1            8,953           1          12,717
By category          732   140  214   879 11,030     419  933  2,575 11,488  1,401    988  5,076  11,283  3,260  1,950   6,224
Composition(%)        37    7   11     451    21       8   19     52 1   17     16     11     57  1   10     25     15      49
4. Karawang-Cikampek
Total                          19662       1           4,416         1            6,835           1          10,832
By category          705  274  172    815 11,193    679   618  1,926 11,524  1,245    793  3,273  11,377  3,455  1,595   4,405
Composition(%)        36   14    9     41 1    27     15   14     44 1   22     18     12     48  1   13     32     15      40
Note: PC = Passenger car, 0 = Opelet, B = Bus, T    Truck.
Source: Arge Indoc.
April 1981



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts With Proposed Tolls
Type of vehicles
on old and new                                         Townships along old road
Year        road        Jakarta                              Bekasi                        Cikarang           Karawang           Cikampek      Comments
1977   Cars      Old        -            3,028                             1,573                      1,488               1,524
Opelets   Old                      4,378                            2,159                      1,401               1,245
Trucks    Old                      8,199                            6,230                      5,076               3,273
Buses     Old                      1,205                              990                        988                 793
PCU       Old                     30,314                           21,287                     17,555              12,538
1980   Cars      Old                      3,388                            1,952                      1,283               1,377
Opelets   Old                     5,872                             3,994                      3,260               3,455
Trucks    Old                     12,542                            8,193                      6,224               4,405
Buses     Old                     1,933                             1,756                      1,957               1,595
PCIJ      Old                    44,481                            29,941                     24,017              19,035
Interchanges and distance between in km
Outer
Jakarta    Jakarta     Ring     Bekasi    Bekasi                                 Karawang    Karawang     Cikampek
Bypass      East       Road      West      East      Cibitung       Cikarang       West        East         South
4.5        4.0        4.9       3.0       8.2          6.6          15.9           7.6        18.1
1985   Cars      Old         1,621      1,621      1,621      1,900     1,250         1,535        1,365        1,203         997           About 30% of new road traffic
New         6,268      6,533       2,298    1,715      1,609         1,497        1,421        1,379       1,341           rediverted back to old road
Opelets   Old         3,344      3,354      3,344      4,082     2,587         3,281        2,889        2,542       2,069           (as compared to free road).
New         5,777      5,816      3,114      2,324     2,172         2,028        1,970        1,881       1,817
Trucks    Old         6,357      6,367       6,357     5,739     4,234         5,361        3,949        2,498       2,456
New        14,1i8     14,636     10,456      7,798     7,216         6,563        5,671        5,103       4,779
Buses     Old           834        834         834       999       640           764          685          604         540
New         2,578      2,592      1,557      1,162     1,096         1,014          963          924         909
PCU       Old        22,526     22,526      22,526    22,328    15,702        19,747       15,497       11,198      10,286
New        52,496     54,143     34,666     25,858    24,013        21,961       19,495       17,866      16,924
1990   Cars      Old         1,862      1,862      1,R62      2,638     1,668         1,696        1,623        1,448       1,302           About 15% of new road traffic
New        10,107     1!0,511     4,116     3,678      3,653         3,639        3,321        3,069       2,984           rediverted back to old road
Opelets   Old         3,181      3,181      3,181      4,307     2,518         2,576        2,480        2,204       1,948           (as compared to free road).
New         6,971      7,015       4,043     3,595     3,578         3,556        3,271        3,000       2,916
Trucks    Old         6,049      6,049       6,049     5,681     4,616         6,066        3,833        2,935       2,541
New        21,563     22,315     16,376    12,387     12,305        12,226       11,013        8,298       7,268
Buses     Old          1,094      1,094      1,094     1,344       895           906          865          773         689
New         4,288      4,310       2,695     2,397     2,384         2,371        2,224        2,000       1,944
PCU       Old        22,354     22,354      22,354    23,836    17,516        21,249       15,416       12,536      10,981
New        79,562     81,934     54,489    43,035    42,762         42,502       38,573       30,814      27,958
2000   Cars      Old         3,724      3,724      3,724      4,500     1,704         1,655        1,740        1,496       1,319           About 5% of new road traffic
New        20,213     21,021      8,231     7,810     7,794         7,764         7,107        6,449       6,189           rediverted back to old road
Opelets   Old         2,099      2,099       2,099     2,590       959           930          978          834         739           (as compared to free road).
New         4,600      4,629      2,667     2,588      2,579         2,573        2,355        2,137       2,050
Trucks    Old         8,953       8,953      8,953     8,404     4,275         4,787        3,276        4,873       2,169
New        31,910     33,023     24,234    19,160    18,920         18,792       17,939       14,865      12,849
Buses     Old         2,209       2,209      2,209     2,490       943           916          963          829         731
New         8,661      8,705      5,443     5,199     5,188          5,168        4,731        4,294       4,120
PCU       Old        32,624     32,624     32,624     33,080    15,237        16,385       12,834       16,171       8,943
New       121,910    125,610     82,369    68,696    68,049        67,65-3       63,772       54,337      48,602
Note: Passenger Car Unit (PCU) values: Cars and Opelets, 1.0; Trucks, 2.5; Buses, 2.0.
Source:  Arge INDOC.
April 1981
X



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts With No Tolls
Type of vehicles
on old and new                                            Townships along old road
Year        road       Jakarta                               Bekasi                        Cikarang           Karawang           Cikampek      Comments
1977   Cars      Old                     3,028                             1,573                      1,488               1,524
Opelets   Old                     4,378                             2,159                      1,401               1,245
Trucks    Old                     8,199                            6,230                       5,076               3,273
Buses     Old                     1,205                              990                         988                 793
PCU       Old                    30,314                            21,287                     17,555              12,538
1980   Cars      Old                     3,388                            1,952                       1,283               1,377
Opelets   Old                     5,872                            3,994                       3,260               3,455
Trucks    Old   -                12,542                            8,193                       6,224               4,405
Buses     Old                     1,933                             1,756                      1,957               1,595
PCU       Old                    44,481                            29,941                     24,017              19,035
Interchanges and distance between in km
Outer
Jakarta    Jakarta     Ring     Bekasi    Bekasi                                Karawang    Karawang     Cikampek
Bypass      East       Road      West      East      Cibitung      Cikarang       West        East          South
4.5        4.0        4.9       3.0       8.2          6.6          15.9          7.6         18.1
1985   Cars      Old           463        460        490     1,056       406           798           628          543         337
New         7,426      7,694      3,429     2,559     2,364         2,234        2,081         2,001      1,945                                                      1
Opelets   Old         2,277      Z,310      1,811     2,938     1,443          2,283        1,891        1,648       1,175                                                    U,
New         6,844      6,850      4,647     3,468     3,203         3,026        2,819         2,711      2,634                                                     H
Trucks    Old         3,749      3,756      1,209     1,900       395          2,130          718          146         104
New        16,726     17,237     15,604    11,637    10,750         9,794         9,125        7,131       6,931
Buses     Old           358        373         68       427        68            265          186          157          93
New         3,054      3,053      2,323     1,734     1,602         1,513         1,409        1,356       1,318
PCU       Old        12,829     12,906       5,460    9,598      2,973         8,936        4,686        2,870       1,958
New        62,193     63,743     51,732    38,588    35,646        32,771       30,531        25,252      24,543
1990   Cars      Old           887        886        881     1,757       792           829           815          717         571
New        11,082     11,487      5,097     4,554     4,536         4,506        4,198         3,800      3,695
Opelets   Old         2,509      2,530      2,218      3,446     1,661        1,729         1,691        1,489       1,233
New         7,643      7,666      5,006     4,452     4,431         4,403        4,102        3,715        3,611
Trucks    Old         3,970      3,977      2,147      2,616     1,665         3,153        1,308          958         564
New       -23,642     24,633     20,278    15,338    15,228        15,139        13,125       10,275       9,000
Buses     Old           681        694        452       770       324           341           339          297         213
New         4,701      4,710      3,337     2,968     2,953         2,936         2,735        2,476       2,407
PCU       Old        14,683     14,747       9,371    13,283     7,264        11,123        6,454        5,195       3,640
New        87,232     89,541     67,472    53,287    52,943         52,629       46,583       38,155      34,620
2000   Cars      Old         3,291      3,295      3,291     3,982     1,293          1,247        1,366        1,157         980
New        20,646     21,450      8,664     8,221     8,196         8,172        7,481         6,788      6,514
Opelets   Old         2,001      2,005      1,959     2,353        807           781          840          717         619
New         4,698      4,723      2,807     2,724     2,713         2,708         2,478        2,249       2,157
Trucks    Old         8,270      8,280      7,680     7,370      3,268         3,799        2,333        4,091       1,387
New        32,593     33,696     25,507    20,167    19,986         19,780       18,882       15,647      13,524
Buses     Old         2,024      2,032      1,923     2,215       670           645           715          603         505
New         8,846      8,882      5,729     5,472     5,454         5,439         4,979        4,520       4,336
PCU       Old        30,015     30,064     28,296    29,190    11,610         12,816        9,469       13,308       6,077
New       124,519    128,177     86,697    72,307    71,782        71,208       67,122       57,195      51,153
Note:  Passenger Car Unit *(PCU) values: Cars and Opelets, 1.0; Trucks, 2.5; Buses, 2.0.                                                                                                  3
Source:  Arge INDOC.
April 1981                                                                                                                                                                                e
C.



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIlCAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
/a
Traffic Forecasts With Alternative Tolls
Type of vehicles
on old and new                                          Townships along old road
Year        road       Jakarta                               Bekasi                        Cikarang           Karawang           Cikaapek      Comments
1977   Cars      Old                      3,028                            1,573                      1,488               1,524
Opelets   Old                      4,378                            2,159                      1,401               1,245
Trucks    Old                      8,199                            6,230                      5,076               3,273
Buses     Old                      1,205                              990                        988                 793
PCU       Old                     30,314                           21,287                     17,555              12,538
1980   Cars      Old                     3,388                             1,952                      1,283               1,377
Opelets   Old                     5,872                             3,994                      3,260               3,455
Trucks    Old                     12,542                            8,193                      6,224               4,405
Buses     Old                      1,933                            1,756                      1,957               1,595
PCU       Old                     44,481                           29,941                     24,017              19,035
Interchanges and distance between in km
Outer
Jakarta    Jakarta     Ring     Bekasi    Bekasi                                 Karawang    Karawang     Cikaapek
Bypass      East       Road      West      East       Cibitung      Cikarang       West        East         South
4.5        4.0        4.9       3.0       8.2           6.6          15.9          7.6        18.1
1985   Cars      Old         2,310       2,313      2,310     2,414     1,764         1,759        1,589        1,404       1,198           For cars on new road, 30% will redivert
New         5,578      5,840       1,608     1,300     1,295         1,272        1,205        1,139       1,106           back to existing road froa Jakarta
Opelets   Old         3,344      3,354       3,344     4,082     2,587         3,281        2,889        2,542       2,069           to Cibitung and 15% from Cibitung to
New         5,777      5,816       3,114     2,324     2,172         2,028        1,970        1,881       1,817           Cikampek as compa-ed to toll road with                L
Trucks    Old         6,357       6,367      6,357     5,739     4,234         5,361        3,949        2,498       2,456           proposed tolls (Table 16a).
New        14,118     14,636      10,456     7,798     7,216         6,563        5,671        5,103       4,779
Buses     Old           358        373          68       427        68           265          186          157          93
New         3,054      3,053      2,323      1,734     1,602         1,513        1,409        1,356       1,318
PCU]      Old        22,263      22,331     21,683    21,698    15,072        18,973       14,723       10,505       9,593
New        52,758     54,352      35,508    26,587    24,7l]        22,734       20,171       18,490      17,507
1990   Cars      Old         2,680      2,682       2,685     3,370     2,403         2,059        1,962        1,754       1,608           For cars on new -road, 20% will redivert
New         9,288      9,691       3,292     2,942     3,063         3,275        3,051        2,762       2,685           back to existing road from Jalkarta
Opelets   Old         3,181       3,181      3,181     4,307     2,518         2,576        2,4890       2,204       1,948           to Cibitung and 10% from Cibitung to
New         6,971      7,015       4,403     3,595     3,578         3,556        3,271        3,000       2,916           Cikampek as compared to toll road with
Trucks    Old          6,049      6,049      6,049     5,681     4,616         6,066        3,833        2,935       2,541           proposed tolls (Table 16a).
New        21,563     22,315      16,376    12,387    12,305        12,226       11,013        8,298       7,268
Buses     Old            681        694        452       770       324           341          339          297         213
New         4,701      4,710      3,332      2,968     2,953         2,936        2,735        2,476       2,407
PCU       Old        22,234      22,374     21,893    23,420    17,109        20,482       14,703       11,890      10,335
New        79,569     81,914     54,949     43,441    43,310        43,268       39,325       31,459      28,585
2000   Cars      Old         4,552       4,543      4,547     5,486     2,485         2,043        2,095        1,818       1,641           For cars on new road, 10% will redivert
New        19,384     20,201      7,407      7,029     7,029         7,375        6,751        6,126       5,879           back to existing road from Jakarta
Opelets  -Old         2,099       2,099      2,099     2,590       959           930          978          834         739           to Cibitung and 5% from Cibitung to
New         4,600      4,629       2,667     2,588     2,579         2,573        2,355        2,137       2,050           Cikampek as compared to toll road with
Trucks    Old-         8,953      ,8953      8,953     8,404     4,275         4,787        3,276        4,873       2,169           proposed tolls (Table 16a).
New        31,910     33,023      24,234    19,160    18,920        18,792       17,939       14,865      12,849
Buses     Old         2,024       2,032      1,923     2,215       670           645          715          603         505
r'aw        8,846      8,882      5,729      5,472     5,454         5,439        4,979        4,520       4,336
PCU]      Old        33,082      33,089     32,875    33,516    15,472        16,231       12,693       16,041       8,813
New       121,451    125,152     82,117     68,461    67,816        67,806       63,912       54,466      48,724
/a Alternativ,e Tolls:
Cars:   100% surcharge from Jakarta Bypass to Cibitung.
50% surcharge from Cibit,,ng to Cikampek South.
Opelets, Trucks: No change
Buses : Free
Note: Passenger Car Unit (PCI]) values: Cars and Opelets, 1.0; Trucks, 2.5; Buses, 2.0.
Source: Arge INDOC.
April 1981



- 53 -
Table 13
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
Average economic vehicle operating cost
in 1980 prices per 1,000 km in Rp in the
corridor without the new highway in 1985.
Cost              Passenger                        Medium      Heavy
component                car     Opelet    Pick-up    truck       truck       Bus
Fuel                  12,114     17,465    13,571    29,297      31,983     31,570
Engine oil               513        718       860     1,350       2,770      2,003
Tires                    589        757       703     1,932       2,082      2,072
Maint. repair          6,009      4,540     4,555    22,346      26,131     45,183
Depreciation          22,279      8,024    14,375    19,096      32,500     41,756
Interest              20,289      7,695    13,774    18,317     30,803      33,054
Overhead                   -      5,636     5,495     9,984      14,489     22,204
Total             61,791     44,835    53,333   102,322     140,758    177,842
Average economic vehicle operating cost
in 1980 prices per 1,000 km in Rp in the
corridor with the new highway in 1985.
(After opening of Section A)
Cost              Passenger                        Medium      Heavy
component                car     Opelet    Pick-up    truck       truck       Bus
Fuel                  12,977     18,358    14,537    34,888      37,811     38,863
Engine oil               487        668       775      1,110      2,138      1,607
Tires                    787        839       811     2,328       2,611      2,662
Maint. repair          6,600      4,838     4,965    24,454      28,280     49,722
Depreciation          21,736      7,000    12,235    15,831      27,033     35,178
Interest              19,544      6,263    10,803    13,873      23,496     25,672
Overhead                   -      5,068     4,886     8,917      13,083     19,540
Total             62,131     43,034    49,012   101,401     134,452    173,244
Source: Arge INDOC.
April 1981



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits with Proposed Tolls
(Rp billion)
Investment costs                                                   Operation and maintenance                                             Benefits
New road                     Total                                                                                   With passenge-         Without passenger
Old road                    Traffic    Toll               invest-  Old road                  Nev road                             Total ope-        time savinRs            tie savL.lgs
improvement  Road works   distribution  faci-     Total     ment    periodic      Road      Toll facilities Toll col- Total road   ration and  Old    Nev              Old     New
Year      program   (il. spurs)    in Jakarta  lities   new road    costs  nainreance maintenance     maintenance   lection  maintenance maintenance   road   road    Total    road   road     Total
(1)          (2)           (3)       (4)      (5)        (6)      (7)          (8)           (9)         (10)        (11)        (12)      (13)   (14)      (15)   (16)    (17)     (18)
(2)+(3)+(4) (1)+(5)                                                      (7)+(8)  (9)+(10)+(11)               (13)+(14)               (16)+(17)
1981       -            11.13        -          -         11.13    11.13     -            -             -            -           -           -        -        -       -       -      -        -
1982       2.40         17.70        -          -         17.70    20.10
1983       4.53         25.45        -                    25.45    29.98     -            -             -            -           -           -        -        -       -       -      -        -
1984       1.24        25.45         -          -         25.45    26.69    -             -             -            -           -           -        3.11     -       3.11    2.08   -        2.08
1985       -           24.27          2.00      1.18      27.45    27.45     -            0.12          0.02         0.26        0.12        0.40     3.56    12.20   15.76    2.39   6.67     9.06
1986       -           13.86         3.9s       2.74      20.50    20.50   -1.91          0.29          0.04         0.61       -1.62       -0.97     4.29    19.39   23.68    2.87  10.54     13.41
1987       -            -            -          -          -        -       -             0.30          0.04         0.61        0.30        0.95     1.15    28.13   29.28    0.77  15.23     16.00
1988       -            -             -         -          -        -        -            0.30          0.04         0.62        0.29        0.95      1.24   32.02   33.26    0.83  17.29     18.12
1989       -            -            -          -          -        -       -             0.30          0.04         0.62        0.30        0.96     1.33    35.92   37.25    0.89  19.35    20.Z4
1990       -                                                                 -            0.28          0.06         0.63        0.28        0.97      1.43   45.16   46.59    0.96  25.13    26.09
1991       -            15.81        -          0.67      16.48    16.48    -             0.28          0.06         0.64        0.28        0.98     1.53    47.27   48.80    1.03  25.68    26.71
1992       -            17.11        -          -         17.11    17.11     -            2.10          0.06         0.94        2.10        3.1.3    1.63    51.52   53.15    1.09  27.85    28.94
1993       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.45          0.06         0.94        0.45        1.45     1.75    55.76   57.51    1.17  30.02    31.19
1994       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.45          0.06         0.95        0.45        1.46     1.87    60.00   61.87    1.25  32.18    33.43
1995       -            -             -         -          -        -        -            0.44          0.07         0.9.        0.44       1t46      2.01    64.24   66.25    1.35  34.35     35.70
1996       -            -            -          0.47       0.47     0.47    -1.91         0.44          0.07         0.96       -1.47       -0.44     2.16    68.48   70.64    1.45  36.51    37.96
1997       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.46          0.07         0.98        0.46        1.51     2.33    72.72   75.05    1.56  38.68    40.24
1998       -            -            -          -                           -             0.47          0.07         0.99        0.47        1.53     2.51    76.96   79.47    1.68  40.85    42.53
1999       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.47          0.07         1.00        0.47        1.54     2.72    81.20   83.92    1.82  43.02    44.84
2000       -             4.00         -         -          4.00     4.00     -            2.51          0.07         1.08        2.51        3.63     2.96    87.78   90.74    1.98  46.42     48.40
2001       -            -            -          1.06       1.06     1.06     -            0.53          0.07         I.09        0.53        1.69     3.23    93.85   97.08    2.16  49.27    51.43
20n2       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.53          0.07         1.10        0.53        1.70     3.58    99.95  103.53    2.39  52.15    54.54
2003       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.53          0.07         1.1!        0.53        1.71     4.01   106.04  110.05    2.69  55.03    57.72
2004       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.53          0.07         1.12        0.53        1.72     4.68   112.14  116.82    3.14  57.90    61.04
2005       -            -            -          -          -                 -            0.54          0.07         1.13        0.54        1.74     5.45   118.23  123.68    3.65  60.78    64.43
Total     8.17       154.78         5.90      6.12      166.80   174.97
Note: Costs and Benefits are calculated based on March 1980 prices,.
Source: Arge INDOC.
April 1981



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGt{WAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits with No Tolls
(Rp billion)
Investment costs                                 Maintenance                                         Benefits
New road                 Total                                                 With passenger           Without passenger
Old road                      Traffic                invest-  Old road      New road                       time savings              time savings
improvement   Road works    distribution   Total      ment     periodic        road      Total road   Old     New               Old     New
Year     program    (incl. spurs)   in Jakarta   new road    costs   maintenance   maintenance  maintenance  road    road     Total    road    road      Total
(1)           (2)            (3)        (4)        (5)        (6)           (7)          (8)       (9)    (10)     (11)     (12)    (13)      (14)
(2)+(3)    (1)+(4)                               (6)+(7)                   (9)+(10)                  (12)+(13)
1981       -            11.13          -           11.13     11.13     -             -             -         -        -        -       -        -        -
1982       2.40         17.70          -           17.70     20.10     -             -             -         -        -        -       -        -        -
1983       4.53         25.45          -           25.45     29.98     -             -             -         -        -        -       -        -        -
1984       1.24         25.45          -           25.45     26.69     -             -              -        3.11     -        3.11    2.08     -        2.08
1985       -            24.27          2.00        26.27     26.27     -             0.12          0.12     3.56     14.06    17.62    2.39     7.77    10.16
1986       -            13.86          3.90        17.76     17.76    -1.91          0.29         -1.62      4.29    21.68    25.97    2.87    11.89    14.76
1987       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.30          0.30     0.81     30.75    31.56    0.54    16.78    17.32
1988       -             -             -            -         -        -              0.29         0.29      0.87    34.41    35.28    0.58    18.70    19.28
1989       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.30          0.30      0.93    38.07    39.00    0.62    20.62    21.24
1990       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.28           0.28     0.99    49.24    50.23    0.66    27.47    28.13
1991       -            15.81          -           15.81     15.81     -             0.28           0.28     1.07    51.10    52.17    0.72    27.87    28.59
1992       -            17.11          -           17.11     17.11     -             2.10           2.10     1.14    55.08    56.22    0.76    29.89    30.65
1993       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.45           0.45     1.22    59.06    60.28    0.82    31.92    32.74
1994       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.45          0.45      1.31    63.04    C4.35    0.88    33.93    34.81
1995       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.44           0.44     1.41    67.02    68.43    0.95    35.96    36.91
1996       -             -             -            -         -       -1.91          0.44          -1.47     1.51    71.00    72.51    1.01    37.98    38.99
1997       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.46           0.46     1.63    74.99    76.62    1.09    40.00    41.09
1998       -             -             -            -         -        -              0.47          0.47     1.76    78.97    80.73    1.18    42.02    43.20
1999       -             -             -            -         -        -             0.47           0.47     1.90    82.95    84.85    1.27    44.04    45.31
2000       -             4.00          -            4.00      4.00     -              2.51          2.51     2.07    89.08    91.15    1.39    47.10    48.49
2001       -             -             -            -         -        -              0.53          0.53     2.26    95.30    97.56    1.51    50.06    51.57
2002       -             -             -            -         -        -              0.53          0.53     2.50   101.56   104.06    1.67    53.04    54.71
2003       -             -             -            -         -        -              0.53          0.53     2.80   107.81   110.61    1.88    56.02    57.90
2004       -             -             -            -         -         -             0.53          0.53     3.28   114.06   117.34    2.19    59.01    61.20
2005       -             -             -            -         -         -             0.54          0.54     3.82   120.31   124.13    2.56    61.99    64.55
Total    8.17        154.78          5.90       160.68     168.85
Note:  Costs and Benefits are calculated based on March 1980 prices.                                                                                                   v
Source:  Arge INDOC.O
April 1981



INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAHPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits with Alternative Tolls
(Rp billion)
Investment costs                                                   Operation and mainte,-ance                                            Benefits
New road                     Total                                                                                   With passenger         Without passenger
Old road                    Traffic     Toll              invest-   Old road                 New road                             Total ope-        tine savings            time savings
improvement  Real works   distribution   faci-    Total     ment    periodic      Road      Toll facilities  Toll col- Total road  ration and  Old     New             Old     New
Year        program  (ioci, spurs)  intJakarta  lities  new road    costs  maintenance maintenance   maintenance    lettion  maintenance maintenance   road   road     Total   road    road    Total
(1)          (2)           (3)       (4)       (5)       (6)      (7)          (8)           (9)          (10)        (11)        (12)     (13)    (14)     (15)   (16)    (17)     (18)
(2)+(3)+(4)  (1)+(5)                                                     (7)+(8)  (9)+(10)+(11)               (13)+(14)                (16)+(17)
1981       -            11.13        -          -         11.13    11.13     -            -             -            -           -           -        -        -        -      -      -         -
1982       2.40         17.70      --           -         17.70    20.10     -            -             -            -           -           -         -       -        -      -      -         -
1983       4.53        25.45          -         -         25.45    29.98     -            -             -            -           -           -        -        -        -      -      -         -
1984       1.24        25.45          -         -         25.45    26.69     -            -             -            -           -           -        3.11     -        3.11   2.08   -         2.08
1985       -           24.27         2.00       1.I8      1.45     27.45    -             0.12          0.02         0.t         0.12        0.40     3.56    12.95    16.51   2.39   6.9Z      9.31
1986       -            13.86        3.90       2.74      20.50    20.50    -1.91         0.29          0.04         0.61       -1.62       -0.97     4.29    20.35    24.64   2.87  10.85     13.72
1987       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.30          0.04         0.61        0.30        0.95      1.15   29.29    30.44   0.77  15.61     16.38
1988       -            -            --                                      -            0.30          0.04         0.62        0.29        0.95      1.24   33.14    34.38   0.83   17.16    18.49
1989       -                              -          -                       -            0.30          0.04         0.62        0.30        0.96      1.33   37.00    38.33   0.89  19.71     20.60
1990       -            -            -          .*         -        -        -            0.28          0.06         0.63        0.28        0.97      1.43   46.55    47.98   0.96  25.58     26.54
1991       -            15.81        -          0.67      16.48     16.48    -            0.28          0.0          0.64        0.28        0.98      1.53   48.58    50.11   1.03  26.10     27.13
1992       -            17.11        -          -         17.11    17.11    -             2.10          0.6 ,        0.94        2.10        3.10      1.63   52.73    54.36   1.09  28.24     29.33
1993       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.45          0.06         0.94        0.45        1.45     1.75    56.88    58.63   1.17  30-38     31.55
1994                    -            -          -          -        -        -            0.45          0.06         0.95        0.45        1.46      1.87   61.03    62.90   1.25  32.52     33.77
1995     j-             -            -          -          -        -       -             0.44          0.07      tI 0.95        0.44        1.46     2.01    65.17    67.18   1.35  34.65     36.00
1996       -            -            -          0.47       0.47     0.47   -1.91          0.44          0.07       *96          -1.47       -0.44     2.16    69.33    71.49   1.45  36.79     38.24
1997       -            -             -         -          -        -        -            0.46          0.07         0.98        0.46        1.51      2.33   73.48    75.81   1.56  38.93     40.49
1998       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.47          0.07         0.99        0.47        1.53     2.51    77.63    80.14   1.68  41.07     42.75
1999       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.47          0.07         1.00        0.47        1.54     2.72    81.79    84.50   1.82  43.20     45.02
2000       -            4.00         -          -          4.00     4.00     -            2.51          u.07         1.08        2.51        3.63      2.96   88.23    91.19   1.98  46.57     48.55
2001       -            -             -         1.06       1.06      1.06    -            0.53          0.07         1.09        0.53        1.69      3.23   94.34    97.57   2.16  49.44     51.60
2002       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.53          0.07         1.10        0.53        1.70     3.58   100.48    104.06  2.39  52.33     54.72
2003       -            -             -         -          -        -        -            0.53          0.07         1.11        0.53        1.71      4.01  106.61    110.62  2.69  55.22     57.91
2004       -            -            -          -          -        -        -            0.53          0.07         1.12        0.53        1.72      4.68  112.75    117.43  3.14  58.11     61.25
2005       -             -            -         -          -        -        -            0.54          0.07         1.13        0.54        1.74      5.45  118.89    124.33  3.65   61.00    64.65
Total     8.17       154.78         5.90      6.12      166.80   174.97
Note: Costs and Benefits are calculated based on 14arch 1980 prices.
Source: Arge INDOC.
April 1981



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1   Transportation Division, East Asia and Pacific Region, Transportation
Sector Review, October 1980
A-2   W.D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart Bina
Marga Staff, A National Study of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions in
Indonesia, June 1978, eight volumes (Technical Reports Nos. 1-7 and
Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations)
A-3   W.D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart Bina
Marga Staff, A Study of Road User Charges in Indonesia, Draft Final
Report, Main Report, June 1978
A-4   W.D. Scott and Co., P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, and Counterpart Bina
Marga Staff, A Study of Highway Ordinances and Enforcement in
Indonesia, Draft Final Report, Main Report, June 1978
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Pro 'ect
I. Items Related to the Metropolitan Jakarta Transport System:
B-1   Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban Develop-
ment, Ministry of Public Works and Power in cooperation with the
Netherlands Directorate for International Technical Assistance,
Jabotabek Development Strategy for Pelita II, January 1975
B--2  Intertraffic-Lenzconsult, Jakarta Metropolitan Area Transportation
Study, April 1975
B-3   Japan International Cooperation Agency, Interim Report for Feasibility
Study of Jakarta Ring Road Project, October 1977, (Volume I, Main
Report; Volume II, Drawings)
B-4   Holland and Podolske, Review of Transportation Planning in the Jakarta
Metropolitan Area, November 1977
B-5   Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Planning Team, City and Regional
Transportation Issues and Development Evaluated 1978, September 1979
B-6   Same author, Preliminary Strategy for Jabotabek Organization,
November 1979



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
B-7   Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Planning Team, Jabotabek
Metropolitan Development Plan, December 1980, two volumes
B-8   Same author, Second Phase Report, August 1979, four volumes
B-9   Same author, Draft Proposed Guided Land Development Programme for
Greater Jakarta, June 1980
B-10 Same author, The Coordination of Transport Planning, October 1980-
B-11  Same author, A Strategic Development Plan for Bekasi, November 1980
B-12 Same author, Transportation Strategy for Jabotabek, December 1980
B-13 Same author, Staged Industrial Land Development Pr-gramoe in
Jabotabek, December 1980
II. Items Related to Indonesia's Toll Road System
B-14 Arge Intertraffic-Lenzconsult, Jakarta-West Java Tollway System Feasi-
bility Study, Part A, Janiuary 1976, three volumes (Volume I, Volume I
Annex, Volume II)
B-15 Same author, Jakarta-West Java Tollway System, Feasibility Study.
Interim Report I On Coordination of Government functions and Creation
of the Legal Foundation for a National Tollway Agency, May 1976
B-16 Same author, Jakarta-West Java Tollway System Feasibility Study,
Part A, Summary of Findings and Recommendations, September 1976
B-17 Pacific Consultants International, The Consulting Engineering Services
for Jakarta Intra Urban Tollway, September 1978, two volumes
B-18 Sauti-Renardet-ICE, Padang-Medan Highway, Impact/Toll Study foor
Belawan-Medan and Medan Eastern Area, October 1978 two volumes
B-19 Same author, Padang-Medan Highway, Belawan-Medan-T. Morawa, Final
Design Report, March 1979
B-20 Pacific Consultants International, The Consulting Engineering
Services for Jakarta Intra Urban Tollway, March 1979, three volumes
B-21 P.T. (Persero) Jasa Marga, Construction and Management of Toll Road
in Indonesia, October 1979
B-22 Mott-Renardet, Surabaya-Malang Highway Project Toll Road Study,
Toll System Appraisal, November 1979



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
III. Items Related to the Jakarta-Cikampek Corridor Project
B-23  Lyon Associates, Inc., Feasibility Study, Trans-Java Highway,
Preliminary Report, November 1972 (two volumes), Final Report,
August 1973 (three volumes)
B-24  Arge Intertraffic-Lenzconsult, Jakarta-West Java Tollway System
Feasibility Study, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, May 1975, (Final
Report, Volume II, Drawings),
B-25  Same author, Jakarta-West Java Tollway System Feasibility Study
Part B, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, July 1975, (Volume II, Drawings)
B-26  Same author, Jakarta-West Java Tollway System Feasibility Study,
Part B, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, December 1975, (Volume I)
B-27  Same author, Terms of Reference For Engineering Services For the
Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, Technical Part, December 23, 1975
B-28  Directorate General of Highways, Jakarta-Cikampek Freeway, An
Outline of the Project, May 1977
B-29  Arge Ingenieur Consulting Lenz & Co. - Dorsch Consult in association
with Indec and Associates, Ltd., Jakarta-Cikampek Hi.ghway Final
Engineering Design, Review of the Feasibility Study, Technical Part,
December 15, 1977
B-30 Same author, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, Final Engineering Design,
Discussion Paper on Traffic Projections, Economic and Financial
Evaluation, May 12, 1978
B-31  Same author, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, Final Engineering Design,
Contract No.: 03/LTR/LN/BM/77, Monthly Report, three volumes
B-32  Same author, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, Final Engineering Design,
January 1979, (three volumes: Book I, Summary Report; Book 2,
Highway Drawings; Book 3, Structural Drawings)
B-33  Same author, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, Final Engineering Design,
Review of the Feasibility Study, Economic Evaluation, January 1979
B-34  Same author, Jakarta-Cikampek Highway, Bid Documents, January 1979
(five volumes: Volume I, Instructions to Bidders; Volume II,
Standard Specifications; Volume III, General and Supplementary
Conditions of Corntract, Special Provisions; Volume IV, Form of Tender
(five parts); Volume V, Construction Drawings (three parts)
B-35 Same author, Jakarta-Cikampek Road. Improvement Program, October
1980 and revised in November 1980.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE CENTRAL AND PROVINCIAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
Centra Gave mr e
Mijnitea f Pubi c                                                      Provincial Governments
Wa It
E77 -                 j7Z
|~ SectoratY
DrcoofDrcoofDiretor                        at       iet t  Gir e nor   ateeo oietof
Genera Prpaato                                                                                                            Prnralvincialfo  o
Generairtin   tt t                   Pln tn                       Hoetio n g anipet                          aitiac
Shetttt n entRe nna                                                                                                      GovernorA}(PE  BI'UNA  {AIsN)t
rSub-Directorate  | |Sub-Directorate                                                                                     Sub-Diircortecectorate jSu  irctrae   Sub-Directorate L Dvtpe   u  ietrt   rint  ai  u  ietrt
Sob-Directorate
Prearaio  Tida Lan  Eninern
G ...r.l0
WorldBank                                                            2213



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
P.T. JASA MARGA
ORGANIZATION CHART
PRESIDENT DIRECTOR
|TCHNICAL DIVISION                      MAAGN B(O DRCOARD           COMMERCIAL DIVISION|
=-------------             ---------------. .------------------ -                                     -  -   -   -   -   -  -
SUBDIVISION       SUBDIVISION        SUBDIVISION                 I           SUBDIVISION        SUBDIVISION    SUBDIVISION  |o
OF PLANNING      OF CONSTF'UCTION  OF MAINTENANCE            OP OPERATION    OF FINANCE       OF ADMINISTRATION  OF SAFETY
D - I
u.c~       a     -     O     I-     <a    ol TREASURER,
z                     z
mC           o              I      Ei < 0  2f 0[ 0                                                                      < 2
Source: P.T. Jasia Marga@
May 190                                                                                                             World Bank - 22325



62 -
CHART 3
INDONESIA
JAKARTA-CIKAMPEK HIGHWAY PROJECT
Observed Traffic Composition on the Jakarta-Cikampek Highway
60
50
W 40 2 Trucks
404
30  Passenger                                                     --~
cr30    cas                          - -                  .                  Opelets
0
EH
4420
0)
60
10o      Buses     {-~
Pa4  0
Year of     1969             1974                1977               1980
Traffic Count
Note: The band spread for each vehicle category reflects variations
in traffic composition on the different sections of the highway.



ad4              Tnjungkarang                                                               1001 o
Panjaniq    Z A M  U N G
Kalia  a
.m Iel                                                               FN.s60              eklna
6ur Rendengklok
biNunN S rg                                             KuJnAnV
Labuhan  Ciandur                                 e                       JA Cikab-                                        (
ePurwakarta
, r                                                    J A                           IAj-,C REBON
ia'u                                                            lian l iman                           ekIoga
D; N S                        aim /Cil euny  e ng                      Pemirangtdr
This map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff eaclusieely for the convenence  Genten             CikaPanr
of the ,eaders of the report to which it is attached. The denominations used and the                    Tka        as ma aya Ban a
boundaries shown on this map do not imply, on the part of the World Bank and its      Sind'ngb                                          W  g
affiliates, any judgmant on the legal status of any territory or any endorsement or    n angbara
acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                              Pangandaran
1040                                                                                       Clilauteure                                 iacap                    u
Kalapagenep                                            '.1
,PHILIPPINES      -80
..    R U?JEI,-                 ,F,    C AN
MALAYSIA
KALIMANTAN-                                                                              I           A N                      NC  E  A   N
-)S .<  ,   2  2?SULAESI  S  >IllWJ-
*    a. i                                          0     20    40   60    80    100
I              KILOMETERS
4AVA        FLORES                                    0        20       40       60   MILES
BALI            *tR
EsALs  >;  I,TIMOR
1060                                                 1080                                                  110
JAVA SEA       f\
'a                                                       -a
cJoA
2
I                      Iuas1 srjn                     \fAirport
I 'Ii
0CIKARANG                                                                                                          RENGASABANDU
C-,                        K    R~'                                                BEKASI         TAMBUN
CIBE~   LEAHABANG
OUEk,pA             TER
SECTIOr   A                                                      SECTIONl B



I BRD 15036
i1 oa                                             1120                                            1140          JANUARY 1981
INDONESIA
JAKARTA - CIKAMPEK             CORR IDOR PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
PROPOSED PROJECT ROAD CONSTRUCTION
PROPOSED ROAD IMPROVEMENT
ROAD  CONFoUuTItN project(Loan 1236'IND)
J       A   VA     SE A                                    J                                               FIPREVIOUS PROJECTCONSIRUCTIONFifth project(Loan 1696-lND) 60-
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
~RAILWAYS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
>-. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-Peikonga              D -ma               Blkra
bn PemragI                                                                                                             Suene
SEMARANG                       i Grab         ,   J\Babad             gkalan                        p
Parakan                                        goero         AAYVAWan
Irke  Wonoso oEA V                                                                 URABY V
u w !~Ngawi                                                  MoIoker
aeIA N'ga                                                      Gi anjuk           (
Surakarta                 Ga       rtsn          angil
ilacap                  Pur .oe'jo                            MADIUNoertnsgn
J GYAKT~~~  nogiri                                               ProIng
APROPOSED
qAK   TAS aung             TuuALANG                                  Klkah
, - PROJECT ROAD CONSTRUCTION
ROAD IMPROVEMENT
e ,/ . F EE D ER ROADS
s /a                                                                                  INTERCHANGES
y (/ \ SxTOLLG AT ES
2 \>z           w (EXISTING
JA   ARACIA             ENATIONAL HIGHWAYS
gg:        RENGA   A SANDUG   UNGGNcGDE                                               PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
CIB E~'   LEMAHABANG                    S~                                              PROPOSED INTRARURBAN TOLL ROADS
<               8 oP      V j   AXRAANG        N            0 \~
PROJCT                                                                OADCONTRUTIO
...... ....AO A DIAR                                                                   BYPASS
'FEEDER ROAD
RCHKAMPEKSOUTH                KILOMETERS
----LECTION  B                                                                                IG   YS
\RAI LWAY



