 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14787

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 07/30/2015

               Country: Panama
             Project ID: P106445                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Health Equity And            Project Costs (US$M):                       58.73                56.30
                         Performance
                         Improvement Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       40.00                40.00
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 08/05/2008
                                                              Closing Date:            06/30/2013          12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Non-compulsory health finance (65%); Public administration- Health (30%); Health (5%)
         Theme(s):        Population and reproductive health (22%); Nutrition and food security (22%); Health system
                          performance (22%); Child health (22%); Social safety nets (12%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Pia Schneider             Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Legal Agreement (2008), the Project Development Objective (PDO) was to assist the Borrower
    in: (a) increasing access of populations in selected underserved rural communities of its territory to quality basic
    health services known to improve mother and child health, and (b) developing strategic planning, regulatory and
    monitoring mechanisms known to improve health system performance.

    The PDO as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (2008) uses a slightly different wording for the first part,
    but has the same meaning: (i) to increase access of targeted underserved rural communities to quality basic
    health services known to improve mother and child health.

    This Review is based on the development objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement.

    The PDO was not revised during project restructuring; however, key associated outcome targets were revised.
    This review will therefore use a split rating and assess project performance against the overall objective before
    and after the April 2012 restructuring, when 51.2% of the actual loan amount had been disbursed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    The three components supported under the project are presented below, showing total project and IBRD
    financing estimated at appraisal and actual IBRD amounts.
   1. Ensuring access to primary health care services by the poor in rural areas (Total project cost at appraisal:
   US$36.8 million of which IBRD: US$25.8 million; Actual IBRD: US$ 35.66 million). This component was to
   disburse a capitation amount of US$ 27.30 per registered individual to providers to finance the provision of a
   defined basic health package delivered by mobile health teams (contracted private providers and health
   professionals hired by Regional Health Department). Funds were to be transferred to the Ministry of Health
   (MOH) based on a list of individuals provided by the National Comptroller’s Office and verified by an independent
   audit firm. The MOH was to transfer loan proceeds to the Regional Departments of Health, which then would
   transfer per capita funds to mobile health teams to ensure access for about 225,000 individuals per year in rural
   areas. The capitation amount was to be adjusted depending on the achievement of specific health coverage
   indicators. Mobile providers were to be paid a 20% advance to be deducted from the first payment. The second
   payment was to be made every two months based on coverage levels for five indicators, and the third payment
   every four months based on provider performance. In addition, 5% of the capitation amount was to be paid
   annually based on beneficiary survey results.

   2. Increase responsiveness of primary health services networks to vulnerable populations in rural areas (Total
   project cost at appraisal: US$9.8 million of which IBRD US$6.2 million; Actual IBRD: US$ 0.33 million). This
   component was to finance consultancies and training to develop an accreditation system, conduct assessment of
   resources, develop operational plans, and improve cultural appropriateness of health care. It also was to finance
   refurbishment of facilities, acquisition of vehicles and equipment, training of community health workers, and
   telemedicine.

   3. Strengthening MOH institutional capacity to exercise stewardship in the health sector       (Total project
   cost at appraisal: US$11.6 million of which IBRD US7.0 million; Actual IBRD: US$ 4.01 million). This component
   was to finance national surveys and studies, including the first Demographic Health Survey (DHS) for Panama,
   technical assistance on data analysis, the development of a new National Health Strategy, and the IT system. It
   was also to finance revisions to health regulations and monitoring and evaluation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost, Financing and Borrower Contribution
    Actual project costs were lower than appraised because of lower borrower contributions. Two Level-2
   restructurings were processed that led to reallocation of funds (see below).
    The project was financed by a US$40 million IBRD loan which disbursed fully. Overall 89% of the total loan
   amount was disbursed through capitation under component 1.
    The borrower contributed US$16.30 million (87.02%) of the planned amount of US$18.73 million.

   Dates: Two Level-2 restructurings were processed:
     April 2012: to extend the closing date to December 31, 2014 to allow completion of project activities; simplify
       disbursement triggers; revise results framework; and reallocate funds across cost categories to adjust loan
       amounts to reduced counterpart financing caused by changes in national budget norms. Disbursement at
       this point was US$20.47 million (51.2% of the actual loan amount).
     October 2013: to reallocate IBRD funds from components 2 and 3 to the first component. This enabled
       financing increased capitation amounts for the target population, as the original capitation amount had been
       increased from US$27.30 to US$40.88 during project implementation and in 2012 again to US$49.00 per
       capita, resulting in higher financing needs under the first component.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial under original and restructured project

   The objective of increased access in underserved rural areas to improve mother and child health, and developing
   strategic planning, regulatory and monitoring mechanisms remains highly relevant. The objective is relevant to
   the government’s strategy to expand rural health services, and it is fully aligned with the MDGs. In the mid-2000s
   Panama still reported substantial geographic inequalities in access to care, with rural areas reporting worse
   outcomes than urban centers. The objective is also in line with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
   2008-2010 at entry, which aimed to reduce poverty and develop human capital; and with the CPS 2011-2014 at
   closing, which under the second pillar aims to provide greater opportunities for all. The objective is also in line
   with the Bank’s 2007 HNP strategy, which aims to prevent poverty as the result of illness by improving financial
   protection, and strives to improve health outcomes, particularly for the poor and vulnerable. However, the second
   part of the objective - strategic planning, regulatory and monitoring mechanisms - was too ambitious given the
   project's resources and institutional context.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest under original and restructured project

   The design clearly linked project activities to objectives. It was innovative as it included a capitation amount with
   a results-based financing (RBF) part that disbursed based on the performance of indicators measured in the
   regions. Activities under the second and third component were to support the management and monitoring and
   evaluation of these payments. The design provided for private health providers in rural poor areas, which was
   highly relevant and innovative.

   However, the design was complex and did not take into account the capacity of the implementing agencies. It
   included weaknesses related to the management and administration of capitation payments that led to
   substantial delays in implementation and a downward adjustment of outcome targets during restructuring. The
   design did not plan for a software solution at the beginning of the project to ensure smooth reporting and
   payments. The verification process for capitation payments was not designed in a lean way. The design did not
   plan for a smooth resolution of discrepancies of reporting, and it included a review process focused on reporting
   that did not guarantee that services were actually delivered. The original capitation amount in the design was
   substantially underestimated. These design weaknesses led to the interruption of services by rural health teams
   from June to August 2010 (ICR p. 9).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1: Increasing access of populations in selected underserved rural communities of the Borrower 's
   territory to quality basic health services known to improve mother and child health

   Substantial under original and restructured project

   The following indicators are estimated for the population of 180,000 registered under capitation payment.

   Baseline values reported for the target population are considerably below regional and national values reported
   by the Ministry of Health (MOH). For example, the MOH shows consistently high vaccination rates for 2008 until
   2013. http://www.minsa.gob.pa/sites/default/files/publicacion-general/indicadores_republica.pdf

   Outputs
     The percentage of health regions that achieved more than 80% of agreed results targets increased from 0%
       at baseline to 20% in 2014 (1 region), not meeting the original (90%) or revised targets (70%).
     By 2014, 80% of drugs were available at health centers from the Primary Health Care Level Essential Drug
       List, meeting the target of 80%.
     The ICR (p. 14) reports that based on audited data, nearly 180,000 beneficiaries from rural areas were
       provided with access to care annually through the mobile clinics, which is 80% of the 225,000 originally
       planned. The Bank clarified that the original target population was overestimated.
     No information is provided on whether providers were cream-skimming risks under capitation.

   Outcomes
     The percentage of pregnant women with at least 3 prenatal controls increased from 20% in 2010 to 86.1% in
       2014, surpassing the target of 70%.
     The percentage of children below 1 year of age with a complete vaccination scheme increased from 26% in
       2010 to 96.1% in 2014, surpassing both the original target of 95% and the revised target of 85%.
     The percentage of deliveries assisted by trained personnel increased from 6% in 2010 to 93% in 2014,
       surpassing both the original (70%) and revised target (65%).
     The percentage of individuals from rural areas diagnosed with diabetes or hypertension who received
       prescribed drugs: 54.4% of diabetics, meeting the target of 55%; and 78% of hypertension patients,
       surpassing the target of 55%.
     Private contracted providers reported considerably better performance results on all 10 indicators compared
       to government-hired health professionals (ICR table 2, p. 17). This suggests that the above listed
       improvements in access were driven by management factors, and not by the Results Based Financing
       supported under the project.
     No information is provided on how the above outcomes have contributed to avoid deaths and disabilities, as
        was expected by the Bank's efficiency analysis (see below).

    Objective 2: Developing strategic planning , regulatory and monitoring mechanisms known to improve health
    system performance

    Modest under original and restructured project

    Outputs
      100% of health regions completed a survey and mapping of existing stock of human resources, equipment
        and infrastructure, surpassing the target of 90%.
      By 2014, 100% of health regions were using automated monitoring and information systems for assessing
        achievement of results of primary health care providers, surpassing the target of 80%.
      0% of health regions have accredited primary health care units of target population, not meeting the target of
        80%.
      Baselines on access to primary health care services by the poor in rural areas using data from the
        Demographic and Health Survey were not established, and results were not disseminated. The target was
        therefore not met.

    Outcomes
      The national strategy with baseline and targets on improving equity in access to care was not established
        using DHS data, and a first report of monitoring progress was not completed. The target was therefore not
        achieved. The Terms of Reference for the DHS have been prepared.



5. Efficiency:

    Modest

    At appraisal, the Bank team expected that the project would avoid deaths and disabilities. The team then
    assumed a life expectancy of 69.5 years, average salary of US$625 monthly that would increase 10% over ten
    years, and a discount rate of 10%. Based on these assumptions, a net present value after five years of US$83
    million was estimated with an internal rate of return of 15.2%. The ICR (p. 28) repeats the same cost-benefit
    analysis but uses a considerably lower monthly salary of US$188.74. It resulted in net present value of US$10.98
    million and an internal rate of return of 25%. However, the teams did not document how many deaths and
    disabilities would have to be avoided to achieve these returns. This analysis was not realistic, and in reality the
    Ministry of Health reports that the number of maternal deaths increased from 41 in 2008 to 49 in 2012. Most
    mothers died in Panama and in Ngäbe Buglé.
    http://www.minsa.gob.pa/sites/default/files/publicacion-general/informe_anual_de_la_mortalidad_materna.pdf
    Similarly, infant mortality rates actually increased from 12.8 in 2008 to 14.3 in 2012 and child mortality from 16.9
    in 2008 to 18.3 in 2012. The Ministry of Health reports an increasing number of deaths from diabetes from 887 in
    2008 to 1,102 in 2013.

    Design weaknesses (see Section 3b) contributed to delays that negatively affected the efficient use of project
    funds. The design substantially increased administrative costs as it implied that overall about 720 reports had to
    be reviewed by several public offices. The RBF funds transfer increased the number of administrative steps from
    16 to 32, which later contributed to delays. Several planned activities were not implemented, and project funds
    were mainly used to finance recurrent expenditures through capitation amounts. The ICR concludes (p. 21) that
    the project generated a burden on the public sector, associated with an unintended waste of time in human
    resources, capacity and efforts. The Borrower's ICR (p. 44) suggests that the number of reports subject to
    assessment exceeded the review capacity of consultants, and additional staff had to be hired to conclude
    assessment on time. In addition, the decentralized payment process increased delays in payment to providers.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No
    ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
6. Outcome:

   Under original and restructured project :

   Relevance of the objective is rated Substantial and of design Modest under both the original and revised scope.
   The achievement of the first objective to improve access is rated Substantial and of the second objective to
   develop strategic planning is rated Modest under both the original and revised scope. Efficiency is rated Modest.
   This results in the same outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory under the original and revised project scope.
   By April 2012, when the project was restructured, disbursement was US$20.47 million (51.2% of the actual loan
   amount). Thus, the final outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. Moderate weaknesses in the RBF payment
   and verification process negatively affected reporting, payments to providers, and the provision of care.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The likelihood that some changes may occur that are detrimental to the operation’s development outcomes is
   low. Panama has reported strong economic growth over the past year, and growth has been pro-poor. The
   government is committed to better health care as evidenced by a substantial MOH budget increase in the past
   years (ICR p. 30). In light of fiscal sustainability concerns, the government has not requested any further lending
   from IBRD to finance recurrent costs in the health sector. Instead, the government's own funds and funding from
   other donors are used to finance the provision of health care. The government continues to use the capitation
   financing model using a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) that will conclude in 2016.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team prepared a project that was strategically relevant for financing health care in Panama and that
   was in line with the strategic priorities of the Bank’s health strategy. The team used lessons from other
   countries and built on synergies with the Bank’s social protection project that supported conditional cash
   transfers. The team collaborated with the IADB and incorporated lessons. Safeguards were established.

   However, the team did not adequately consider the practicality of the verification system in the project's
   design. The project’s operational manual included a complicated verification process that later slowed down
   implementation, led to payment delays, and created additional administrative burdens. The team rated project
   risks as substantial at appraisal and identified a high risk for barriers that would delay counterpart funding
   (PAD p. 18); however, the measures to mitigate this risk were insufficient, and internal procedures led to
   payment delays and gaps in the provision of care. Although the project was implemented through the
   regions, subnational risks were not considered; however, these materialized and jeopardized implementation
   (ICR p. 8). The Bank team did not start the project with an automatized online solution system for provider
   performance audits and for capitation and results based financing (RBF) to providers. The resulting additional
   paperwork created delays in payments. The M&E framework had weaknesses, and baseline data were not
   identified at appraisal (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank conducted regular supervision missions and restructured the project twice. The team adjusted the
   capitation amount twice in response to concerns about insufficient cost recovery. Issues were discussed
   during supervision but not adequately followed up. Increases in capitation cost compromised funding and
   achievement of the second project objective, but this issue was not addressed by the Bank. The
   Mid-Term-Review was conducted in September 2011. Later, a software solution was implemented to reduce
   the number of paper reports. The ICR concludes that the Bank team did not properly address complex
   administrative processes under the RBF, and this jeopardized the operation (ICR p. 22).
  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

    The government remained committed to the reforms supported under the project, including the contracting of
    private providers. However, the borrower contribution was less than expected, and the provision of
    counterpart funding experienced delays due to internal control procedures and legal compliances, which
    negatively affected payments to providers and provision of care.


  Government Performance Rating                             Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The implementing agency (Ministry of Health's Financial and Administrative Management Unit, UGSAF) had
    several years of experience with managing and implementing donor-funded projects, including those financed
    by the World Bank and IADB. The team included MOH staff. The Project Execution Council reported to the
    MOH, and oversaw implementation. The MOH organized stakeholder consultations. Regional Departments
    of Health transferred capitation payments received from the MOH to private providers, which increased the
    administrative burden on government. Financial management experienced delays (see Section 11b). There
    were significant weaknesses in M&E (see Section 10).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E design included relevant indicators to measure progress towards outcomes, though indicators focused
   on access. One indicator (compliance with diabetes and hypertension treatment) included a quality dimension.
   The design did not specify baseline values, and it did not specify whether indicators applied to the target
   population or beneficiary group. The design did not provide for an efficient M&E framework to monitor and
   implement RBF.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Several institutions were involved in M&E, including the MOH, UGSAF, regional health departments, and
   providers. The process was manually intense and complicated, which led to substantial delays in reporting. The
   situation only improved during the second half of the project, when reporting software was introduced. Baseline
   data were only produced in the second year of implementation. The planned Demographic and Health Survey
   (DHS) was not conducted.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The above-mentioned issues delayed reporting and severely jeopardized M&E utilization (ICR p. 11). Delays in
   reporting did not allow for timely feedback to inform project progress. Weaknesses in the verification process
   significantly affected the RBF payment process to providers who were paid late, and created service
    interruptions.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    Two safeguard policies were triggered: (i) Environmental (OP 4.01) and (ii) Indigenous People (OP 4.10).

    Environmental safeguards were triggered because of possible increases in the production of healthcare waste
    and minor rehabilitation work in health facilities. The MOH generated a unified Environmental Assessment and
    Healthcare Waste Action Plan. The plan included detailed checklists and procedures to handle waste, and
    implementation was in compliance (ICR p. 12). The MOH also conducted an environmental screening.

    Indigenous People: The project did not target indigenous jurisdictions (comarcas); however, some indigenous
    people live in rural areas served by the project. Thus an Indigenous People Plan was developed and
    implemented under the project. It financed training of health personnel about good practices in cultural adaptation
    in health care delivery.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management : The financial and administrative health management unit (UGSAF) at the MOH was
    responsible for financial management (FM). UGSAF had several years of experience with donor-funded projects.
    Bank FM supervision rated FM compliance as Moderately Satisfactory. Financial management systems provided
    reasonable assurance that loan proceeds were used for intended purposes, transparency in FM facilitated
    control, and FM legal covenants were met. However, project financial and audit reports were submitted with
    delays. Low quality of financial audit and operational audit reports led to delays in disbursement. There were also
    delays in execution of local counterpart funds.

    Procurement: was rated Satisfactory by the Bank. MOH internal procedures caused delays in final awards,
    contract signing and implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR (pp. 23-25) are:

    Low cost recovery rates can negatively affect provider behavior under capitation. Capitation amounts should
    undergo regional adjustments based on thorough cost analysis. In this case, the original capitation amount was
    much too low compared to unit costs, and had to be adjusted twice.

    Delays in manual reporting jeopardize the payment process and contribute to substantial administrative
    burdens and to delivery suspension. Verification systems must be lean and efficient and set up before RBF
    payments are made.

    Contracting private providers can be a successful strategy to reach rural populations. Private providers
    contracted by the MOH under this project performed considerably better then public health care providers.

    Processes, roles and responsibilities should be clearly identified in complex payment and reporting systems.
    Procedures should be kept simple and use modern management systems to keep administrative costs low.

14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes      No

Why? As a follow up to IEG's health financing evaluation, and to learn from verification systems under RBF to
inform future Bank work on Program for Results (PforR) and RBF.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is well written and concise. It is satisfactory in its presentation of evidence. The ICR is consistent with
    ICR guidelines. The author made efforts to critically interpret progress under the project and draw conclusions on
    project performance.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
