                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00003380



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-75870)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION


                                       TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                        FOR A

       HEALTH EQUITY AND PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                     June 16, 2015




Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective: June 16, 2015)
                           Currency Unit = Panamanian Balboas (PAB)
                                     PAB1.00 = US$1.00
                                     US$1.00 = PAB1.00

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                        April 1 – March 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CCT       Conditional Cash Transfer Program
CODIPRO   Project Executive Council (Consejo Directivo de Proyectos)
DHS       Demographic and Health Survey
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EEC       Health Coverage Expansion Strategy (Estrategia de Extensión de Cobertura)
FMA       Financial Management Assessment
GOP       Government of Panama
HEPI      Health Equity and Performance Improvement Project
IAF       Independent Audit Firm
RDH       Regional Department of Health
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIDES     Ministry of Social Development
MHT       Mobile health team
MOH       Ministry of Health
NGO       Non -Governmental Organization
OE        External Organizations (Organizaciones Externas)
OI        Internal Organizations (Organizaciones Internas)
PAISS     Basic Health Services Package (Paquete de Atención Integral de Servicios de Salud)
PHC       Primary Health Care
PMTISS    Multi-Phase Institutional Transformation Project (Proyecto Multifase de Transformación
          Institucional)
PSPV      Health Protection Program for the Poor and Vulnerable Populations (Protección en Salud
          para Poblaciones Vulnerables)
RO        Panama’s Conditional Cash Transfer (Red de Oportunidades)
RBF       Results-Based Financing
RDH       Regional Department of Health
UGSAF     Financial and Administrative Health Management Unit (Unidad de Gestión de Salud,
          Administrativa y Financiera)



                    Senior Global Practice Director: Timothy Grant Evans
                                  Practice Manager: Daniel Dulitzky
                              Project Team Leader: Carmen Carpio
                                 ICR Team Leader: Renzo Sotomayor
                                        ICR Author: Renzo Sotomayor

                                                  ii
                                                           PANAMA

       HEALTH EQUITY AND PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


CONTENTS


A. Basic Information .......................................................................................................... iv 
B. Key Dates ...................................................................................................................... iv 
C. Ratings Summary .......................................................................................................... iv 
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ v 
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... v 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... viii 
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... ix 
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................... x 
1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7 
3.  Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13 
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 21 
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22 
6.  Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 23 
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 25 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 26 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 31 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 33 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 34 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 35 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 51 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 52 
Annex 10. MAP IBRD 33462R ........................................................................................ 53 




                                                                  iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Health Equity and
Country:                Panama                   Project Name:             Performance
                                                                           Improvement Project
Project ID:             P106445                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-75870
ICR Date:               06/22/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           PANAMA
Original Total
                        USD 40.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 40.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 40.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 MINSA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/28/2007     Effectiveness:           12/08/2008           12/08/2008
                                                                                   04/17/2012
Appraisal:            04/16/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   10/23/2013
Approval:             08/05/2008     Mid-term Review:         09/05/2011           12/05/2011
                                     Closing:                 06/30/2013           12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                5                    1
Non-compulsory health finance                                         65                  89
Public administration- Health                                         30                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          22                  22
Health system performance                                             22                  22
Nutrition and food security                                           22                  22
Population and reproductive health                                    22                  22
Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care
                                                                      12                  12
Services

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          J. Humberto Lopez                    Laura Frigenti
Practice Manager           Daniel Dulitzky                      Keith E. Hansen
Project Team Leader:       Carmen Carpio                        Fernando Montenegro Torres
ICR Team Leader:           Renzo Efren Sotomayor Noel
ICR Primary Author:        Renzo Efren Sotomayor Noel

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) increase access of
targeted underserved rural communities to quality basic health services known to


                                               v
improve mother and child health; and (ii) support the development of strategic planning,
regulatory, and monitoring mechanisms known to improve health system performance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objectives were not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target        Completion or
                                            documents)            Values         Target Years
                  Percentage of pregnant women with at least 3 prenatal controls (one in each
Indicator 1 :
                  trimester).
Value
quantitative or   20%                       70%                                 86.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/27/2010                08/06/2008                          12/18/2014
Comments
                  Target surpassed. Baseline elaborated in June 2010 based on the EEC-PSPV
(incl. %
                  beneficiary roster
achievement)
                  Percentage of children below 1 year with a complete vaccination scheme for
Indicator 2 :
                  their age.
Value
quantitative or   26%                       95%                 85%             96.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/27/2010                 08/06/2008         12/11/2012       12/18/2014
Comments          Target surpassed. Baseline elaborated in June 2010 based on the EEC-PSPV
(incl. %          beneficiary roster. Target was revised during the first Project restructuring in
achievement)      April 2012.
                  Percentage of women delivering children with the assistance of trained
Indicator 3 :
                  personnel from MOH.
Value
quantitative or   6%                        70%                 65%             92.76%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/27/2010                 08/06/2008         12/11/2012       12/18/2014
Comments          Target surpassed. Baseline elaborated in June 2010 based on the EEC-PSPV
(incl. %          beneficiary roster. Target was revised during the first Project restructuring in
achievement)      April 2012.
                  National strategy with baseline and targets on improving equity in access to
Indicator 4 :
                  health care services established using DHS data.
                                             First report of
Value
                                             monitoring                         TOR for DHS
quantitative or   0
                                             progress                           finalized.
Qualitative)
                                             completed.
Date achieved     08/06/2008                 08/06/2008                          12/18/2014
Comments
                  Target not achieved. TOR finalized but DHS was not implemented due to
(incl. %
                  delays with Project implementation and lack of funds.
achievement)

                                                  vi
                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                  Percentage of individuals from rural areas diagnosed with diabetes and
Indicator 5 :     hypertension in need of medication receiving prescribed drugs by primary
                  health care units according to MINSA's protocol.
Value
                  77% Diabetes and          55% Diabetes                       54.37% Diabetes
quantitative or
                  Hypertension              55% Hypertension                   78% Hypertension
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/15/2012               08/06/2008                          12/18/2014
Comments          Target achieved. Baseline elaborated in August 2012 based on all patients
(incl. %          receiving treatment regardless on whether the treatment is the one set in the
achievement)      MOH protocols.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                  Component 1: Percentage of health regions that achieve more than 80% of
Indicator 1 :
                  agreed intermediary outcome targets.
Value
(quantitative     0%                        90%                 70%            20%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2009                  08/06/2008           12/11/2012   12/18/2014
Comments          Target not achieved. MOH decided to stop using agreed intermediary outcome
(incl. %          targets. Baseline elaborated based on MOH administrative systems. Target was
achievement)      revised during the first Project restructuring in April 2012.
                  Component 2: Percentage of health regions that complete survey and mapping of
Indicator 2 :
                  human resources, equipment, and infrastructure.
Value
(quantitative   0%                       90%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/06/2008                 08/06/2008                        12/18/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target surpassed.
achievement)
                Component 2: Percentage of health regions that have successfully complied with
Indicator 3 : accreditation plan of primary health care units in communities targeted by
                Component 1.
Value
(quantitative   0%                       80%                               0%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/06/2008                 08/06/2008                        12/18/2014
Comments        Target not achieved since funding needed by each Regional Department of
(incl. %        Health (RDH) to comply with accreditation was allocated based on achievement


                                                vii
                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
achievement)      of IO Indicator 1.
                  Component 3: Establishment of a baseline on Access to primary health care
Indicator 4 :     services by the poor in rural areas using data from the demographic and health
                  survey.
Value
                  DHS never done in           DHS results                      TOR for DHS
(quantitative
                  Panama.                     disseminated.                    finalized.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2009                  08/06/2008                       12/18/2014
Comments
                  Target not achieved. TOR finalized but DHS was not implemented due to lack
(incl. %
                  of internal coordination and funding.
achievement)
                  Component 3: Percentage of drugs from the Primary Health Care Level Essential
Indicator 5 :
                  Drug List that is available at health centers.
Value
(quantitative   69%                     80%                                80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/21/2012                08/06/2008                         12/18/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)
                Component 3: Percentage of health regions using automated monitoring and
Indicator 6 : information system for assessing achievement of results of primary health care
                providers.
Value
(quantitative   0%                      80%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/06/2008                08/06/2008                         12/18/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target surpassed.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/05/2008             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     06/19/2009             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 3.63
  3     12/02/2009             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 6.91
  4     06/28/2010             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 6.91
  5     02/19/2011             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         12.43
  6     06/29/2011             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         13.88
  7     12/26/2011             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory          18.37


                                                 viii
                                                                                  Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                               IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  8    07/11/2012       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory         20.47
  9    02/26/2013       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory         22.97
 10    09/30/2013       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory         29.26
 11    04/21/2014       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory         31.36
 12    11/24/2014   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory         37.30
 13    12/29/2014   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory         40.00

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                      Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                                 Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                               1. Extended the Closing Date from
                                                               June 30, 2013 to December 31, 2014
                                                               to ensure provision of health services,
                                                               completion of beneficiary roster, and
                                                               conducting of health survey.

                                                               2. Simplified the disbursement
                                                               conditions to trigger disbursements.
 04/17/2012         N        S      MS                20.47
                                                               3. Revised the Results Framework for
                                                               a more accurate measurement of
                                                               progress.

                                                               4. Introduced flexibility in the
                                                               percentage of funds financed by the
                                                               loan versus counterpart funds while
                                                               maintaining the global percentages.

                                                               1. Transferred funds from
                                                               Components 2 and 3 to Component 1.
                                                               Component 1 total funds increased
                                                               from US$25.8 to US$35.6 million,
                                                               representing 89 percent of the total
 10/23/2013         N        S      MS                29.26
                                                               Loan. The transfer enabled the
                                                               financing of the provision of health
                                                               services to the target population
                                                               during 2013.




                                              ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Sector background. At Project appraisal in 2008, Panama’s
economy was one of the fastest growing in Latin America, with an average GDP growth
of 8.7 percent from 2004-06, and more than 10 percent in the first nine months of 2007.
With an open and expanding trade regime, the Government of Panama (GOP) in 2006
achieved a fiscal surplus in the non-financial public sector for the first time in ten years
and was on track to reduce the overall deficit to 1 percent by 2010. Despite strong
economic performance, poverty in Panama remained persistently high; with more than
one third of Panama’s population living in poverty and more than one sixth in extreme
poverty. The GOP decided to address this situation by working on a comprehensive plan
to improve its conditional cash transfer (CCT) program known as Red de Oportunidades
(RO). The RO, program promoted the coordination with key ministries, such as health
and education, and boosted demand for basic health and education services.

2.     Main Health Sector Issues. The main challenge faced by the health system in
Panama was related to inequality. Panama achieved important health outcomes (under 5
mortality declined from 34 to 20 deaths per 1,000 births between 1990 and 2004) and
devoted a substantial amount of its GDP to health expenditures (7.7 percent in 2004),
well above the regional average of 6.5 percent. However, due to geographical, financial
and cultural barriers to access key preventive services for mothers and children, poor and
indigenous rural households experienced lower health outcomes. Immunization rates
increased for the non-poor but decreased between 4 and 5 percentage points in poor
households (except for the anti-tuberculosis vaccine BCG). Mortality rates for children
under five years of age in Bocas del Toro and the indigenous areas (comarcas) Ngobe
Bugle and Guna Yala were respectively 2.4, 1.9 and 1.6 times higher than the national
average of 19.9 deaths per 1,000 live births. Maternal mortality in the comarcas Guna
Yala and Ngobe Bugle were 5 and 3 times higher than the national average.

3.     Since 1995, the Ministry of Health (MOH) had implemented a strategy to expand
coverage of primary health care services and to reach the rural and indigenous
communities - Health Coverage Expansion Strategy (Estrategia de Extensión de
Cobertura - EEC). From 2003 to 2008, the strategy received financial and technical
support through an Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) loan implemented
through the Multi-Phase Institutional Transformation Project (Proyecto Multifase de
Transformación Institucional – PMTISS). By means of this loan and public funds, the
MOH delivered a basic package of 19 interventions to poor households and indigenous
communities denominated the Basic Health Services Package (Paquete de Atención
Integral de Servicios de Salud - PAISS). In support of delivering this package, the MOH
introduced the use of payments on capitated basis, performance agreements with MOH
teams, and contracts with non-governmental organizations (NGOs).




                                             1
4.      In 2007, the MOH decided to continue financing the EEC through two new
programs. The first one to finance and reach rural communities: the Health Protection
Program for the Poor and Vulnerable Populations (Protección en Salud para Poblaciones
Vulnerables - PSPV); the second one which built on PAISS, but focused on scaling up
nutrition services in the indigenous comarcas: Strengthened Basic Health Services
Package (Paquete de Atención Integral de Servicios de Salud Fortalecido con Atención
Integral de la Niñez en la Comunidad – PAISS+N).

5.      The new PSPV received technical and financial support from the World Bank
through the Health Equity and Performance Improvement Project (HEPI). Under the
PSPV, and based on the previous five years’ experience implementing PAISS, the MOH
decided to improve the capitation payments and include the results-based financing
(RBF) approach. PSPV also included the sub national health levels –Regional
Department of Health (RDH) - in the scheme in order to improve RDH responsiveness
and to strengthen MOH stewardship. In addition, PSPV allowed contracts with private
sector providers for the delivery of the health services package by mobile teams in the
rural areas.

6.     The new program targeting indigenous comarcas, PAISS+N, was supported by
the IADB health project and the World Bank Social Protection Project 1 , which also
supported the CCT RO program, which included the strengthening, design and delivery
of preventive and nutritional services in indigenous jurisdictions.

7.     Country Partnership Strategy and Rationale for the World Bank
involvement.
The GOP objectives for the health sector were fully aligned with the World Bank’s
commitment to support poverty reduction and inclusion efforts within the framework of
the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2008-2010 (Report #
41338) discussed by the Executive Directors on October 30, 2007. The Project supported
two of four CPS pillars: Pillar I - “Reduce Poverty and Inequality” and Pillar IV -
“Develop Human Capital”. In addition, the Project was consistent with GOP’s “Strategic
Vision of Economic and Employment Development Towards 2009” and World Bank’s
2007 Strategy for Health, Nutrition and Population.

8.     The World Bank was particularly well-positioned to support Panama´s effort to
launch the new PSPV, given its experience in supporting countries in the region to
address inequality by using innovative financing mechanisms such as capitation
payments and RBF mechanisms, and developing monitoring and evaluation systems to
measure results among vulnerable populations (i.e. Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and
Uruguay). Consequently, PSPV was designed with features similar to other World Bank-
financed projects that used provider incentives to foster accountability and RBF. Finally,




1
    Panama Social Protection Project (Red de Oportunidades), Loan # 7479 (P098328).




                                                    2
the World Bank was already supporting EEC for delivering health services in the
indigenous jurisdictions through another project: Social Protection Project (P098328).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)

9.      The PDO consisted of two sub-PDOs which were to: (i) increase access of
targeted underserved rural communities to quality basic health services known to
improve mother and child health; and (ii) support the development of strategic planning,
regulatory, and monitoring mechanisms known to improve health system performance.

10.    According to the PAD, the PDO indicators were:

  1. Percentage of pregnant women with at least 3 prenatal controls with at least one
     control in each trimester of the pregnancy.
  2. Percentage of children younger than 1 year with complete vaccination scheme.
  3. Percentage of births attended by trained personnel from MOH.
  4. Development of a national health strategy includes a baseline and targets to reduce
     inequalities in access to health services constructed with data from the national and
     demographic health survey (DHS).
  5. Percentage of individuals from rural areas diagnosed with diabetes and
     hypertension in need of medication receiving prescribed drugs by ambulatory
     primary health care units according to MOH’s protocol.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification.

11.      The PDO was not revised. However, the Project’s Results Framework was revised
during project restructuring (April 2012) allowing for a more accurate measurement of
Project progress and impact. The revisions introduced were as follows: (i) modified some
annual and final Project targets to align with the revised closing date (which was
extended by 18 months to December 2014), (ii) revised the baseline of one indicator; and
(iii) revised data sources and clarified the measurement for indicators 1, 2, 3 and 5. The
Project restructuring did not exclude, add or change the indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.    The project loan, specifically Component 1, would provide resources to finance
the average units cost of ensuring access to basic health services to approximately
225,000 poor individuals living in rural areas. The Project did not include the
communities living in the indigenous jurisdictions (comarcas indígenas) as they were
already covered by other financial sources.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                            3
13.    The Project consisted of the following three components:

14.     Component 1: Ensuring access to primary health care services by the poor in
rural areas (US$36.8 million – World Bank financing US$25.8 million). The objective
of this component was to increase access by targeted underserved communities to basic
health services known to improve mother and child health care.

15.    The following table presents the package of prioritized health interventions that
this component financed:

                       Table 1. Package of Basic Health Services
                                Preventive Health Services
Prenatal control
Post-partum control
Provision of Folic Acid and Iron for women in fertile age
Development and growth monitoring for children under 5 years old
Family Planning
Pap smear and breast cancer preventive examination
                                     Health Care Services
Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI) treatment
Acute Infectious Diarrhea
Screening, diagnosis and treatment of malnutrition for children under five
Screening, diagnosis and treatment of malnutrition for women during pregnancy and post-
partum
Provision of supplementary food for women with low weight during pregnancy and post-
partum
Screening and treatment of micronutrient deficiency in pregnant women and children under 5
years old
Triage and referral to appropriate health care unit for institutional delivery
Screening and treatment of tuberculosis
Screening, diagnosis and treatment of malaria
Screening, diagnosis and treatment of leishmaniasis
Screening, diagnosis and treatment of hypertension
Ambulatory treatment and follow up of other adult chronic conditions and child morbidity
(primary health care)
                              Education and Health Promotion
Preventive nutritional education
Education and training on evaluation of water sources, treatment and quality control
Education and training on sanitation activities in rural areas
Education and training for solid waste management and disposal in rural areas
Health promotion

16.    This component aimed to use capitation payments as a disbursement mechanism
and finance health regions to implement PSPV. Loan proceeds for capitation payments
were disbursed against a certified list of enrolled eligible individuals to be submitted to
the Bank by the MOH. The certification of the list of beneficiaries was provided by the
National Comptroller’s Office (Contraloría General de la Nación) and by an independent
audit firm (IAF). The MOH in turn transferred loan proceeds to the Regional



                                              4
Departments of Health (RDH), all of which have been decentralized, with capitation
payments adjusted according to achievement of agreed-upon result targets.

17.     Concurrent medical audits confirmed that: (i) services were in fact rendered to
eligible individuals; (ii) services were rendered following established quality standards;
and (iii) reported levels of target-achievement are verifiable and accurate. Social audits
aimed at engaging with beneficiary communities to provide information for
accountability mechanisms.

18.     The package of health services was provided by mobile health teams. Mobile
health teams could be: i) private sector providers contracted by MOH central level to
deliver the health package, referred to as external organizations (organizaciones externas
- OE), or ii) mobile health teams integrated by health professionals hired by the RDH,
referred to as internal organizations (organizaciones internas - OI).

19.     Component 2: Increase responsiveness of primary health services networks
to vulnerable populations in rural areas (US$9.8 million – World Bank financing
US$6.2 million). The objective of this component was to increase the capacity of primary
health care networks to respond to health care service demand by poor rural communities.
There were two subcomponents:

20.     Subcomponent 2.1. Strengthening health regions’ management capacity to
develop and implement primary health care interventions in rural areas. This
subcomponent aimed at financing investments, consultancies and training for activities
including: development of an accreditation system for primary health care facilities in
rural areas; technical assistance to carry out assessments of available human resources,
equipment and infrastructure; technical assistance to develop and implement annual
operational plans at the regional level to improve the management of the supply chain of
pharmaceuticals; technical assistance to develop and implement annual operational plans
to reduce access barriers in rural areas; and activities to improve cultural appropriateness
of health care delivery to rural communities.

21.     Subcomponent 2.2. Improving the delivery of health services to vulnerable
populations living in remote rural areas. This subcomponent aimed at financing
investments, technical assistance and training for activities including: refurbishment of
existing primary health care units in rural areas; acquisition of medical equipment and
vehicles for primary health care units; development and initial implementation of a
continuous training program for community health workers; development of strategies for
early identification and transportation of critical-condition patients; implementation of a
pilot program of telemedicine in primary health services in rural areas.

22.     Component 3: Strengthening MOH’s institutional capacity to exercise
stewardship in the health sector (US$11.6 million – World Bank financing US$7.0
million). This component aimed at strengthening the MOH’s institutional capacity for
strategic planning, management of information and monitoring results to improve the




                                             5
health system performance with a focus on fostering equitable access to quality health
services. The component was structured under three subcomponents:

23.     Subcomponent 3.1. Improving the MOH’s institutional capacity for strategic
analysis and planning to improve performance in the health sector. Activities to be
financed under this subcomponent included conducting national surveys and studies such
as the first Demographic and Health Survey; technical assistance and training to improve
the MOH’s technical capacity to analyze data and trends in the health sector;
consultations for a new National Health Strategy to improve equitable access to health
services; development of national pharmaceutical and nutrition strategies; and
strengthening IT systems for data analysis and strategic planning.

24.    Subcomponent 3.2. Update health regulations and revise enforcement
mechanisms. This subcomponent aimed at financing technical assistance, goods, and
services needed to overhaul health regulatory framework, including the revision and
updating of the health code, and strengthening enforcement mechanisms.

25.     Subcomponent 3.3. Strengthening management and monitoring, and
information systems of national programs to improve access to health services by the
poor. This subcomponent aimed at financing technical assistance, goods, and services to
implement various activities, including strengthening information systems to monitor
implementation of the new model for primary health care; information systems to
monitor results and financing for the PSPV, including automated system at the central
and regional level; concurrent financial, technical, and social audits; upgrading
information technology at the regional level and training for data management; co-
financing an impact evaluation of PSPV; and the management of fiduciary aspects of
project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components

26.    Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

27.   Project restructuring. The Project went through two restructurings, both Level
Two. The significant changes of the first restructuring (April 17, 2012) were:
     The Closing Date was extended from June 30, 2013 to December 21, 2014 to
       ensure the complete implementation of the three Components.
     Simplification of disbursement conditions related to the certification of the
       beneficiary roster that resolved initial disbursement delays.
     Introducing flexibility in the percentage of funds financed by the loan versus
       counterpart funds for each disbursement request, while maintaining the global
       agreed upon percentages for all expenditures categories. Due to national budget
       norms, at the beginning of the year the MOH did not have enough counterpart
       funds for large disbursement.




                                           6
28.    The second restructuring (October 23, 2013) transferred funds from Component 2
and Component 3 to Component 1. Based on a MOH – PMTISS analysis, an original cost
of US$27.3 per capita payments was established at appraisal. However, during the
implementation phase the per capita increased to US$40.88. In addition, in 2012 the per
capita was recalculated and increased to US$49.00 for the most accessible rural areas. As
a consequence, Component 1, that financed the per capita payments, increased its total
funds from US$25.8 to US$35.6 million, representing at the end, 89 percent of the total
project loan. The restructuring allowed to finance the provision of the health service
package by the mobile teams during 2013 and 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

29.     Soundness of the background analysis. The Project significantly incorporated
the lessons learned from the five years of experience implementing the IADB´s Multi-
Phase Institutional Transformation Project – PMTISS that supported the MOH in the
implementation of the PAISS in the following areas: i) the utilization of performance
agreements and capitation payments for improving efficiency and quality; ii) the need
for monitoring and auditing systems with spot checks; iii) the development of an
individualized roster for the poor in rural areas. Finally, the Project addressed inequality
by targeting the poor rural areas (that have lower health indicators than urban areas) and
recognized the cash incentives which beneficiaries from poor households received from
the CCT program RO to access and utilize health services.

30.     Assessment of the Project design. Based on the analysis of Panama’s health
sector, the PDO was important, clear and realistic for the country. In addition, the Project
was responsive to Panama’s long-term strategy of expanding health services to rural areas
and to global development objectives. Given the duration, resources, approach and
previous experiences, the Project could be held accountable for the achievement of the
outcomes.

31.    The three Components were reasonable in relation to achieving the PDO. The
MOH had a positive experience using capitation payments under the IADB loan.
However, despite a careful assessment of the health sector needs during Project
preparation, a significant increase in the per capita cost was unforeseen, which eventually
caused the reallocation of funds from Components 2 and 3 to Component 1 which
substantially increased Component 1’s final allocation from US$25.8 to US$35.6 million
(from 64.5 percent to 89 percent of total project loan).

32.    In order to strengthen and improve the health decentralization process, the RBF
design called for a necessary but challenging coordination among several organizations:
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), MOH, UGSAF, Regional Departments of
Health, mobile health teams hired by the RDH (OIs), private sector providers (OEs), the
National Comptroller’s Office and the Independent Audit Firm. In addition, it involved
coordination with other national agencies and programs such as the Ministry of Social




                                             7
Development (MIDES) and the RO program. Nevertheless, the Project had a relatively
strong and experienced implementing agency - the MOH-UGSAF. Despite the
involvement of several organizations, the innovations introduced by the Project, and the
different geographical areas covered, UGSAF managed to achieve positive results at the
end as demonstrated in the achievement of 4 of 5 PDO indicators.

33.     Adequacy of Government´s commitment. The MOH appointed the UGSAF, a
relatively strong and capable implementing agency with more than five years of
experience in a similar role under IADB and World Bank loans, as the unit responsible
for the overall coordination of all technical, financial and administrative aspects of the
Project. The UGSAF is responsible for priority health projects and it is composed of
regular MOH staff. In addition, the MOH established a Project Executive Council to
oversee overall implementation that reported directly to the Minister of Health. However,
the Project costs included borrower’s counterpart funds in the total of US$18.73 million.
During Project implementation, the provision of counterpart funds took much longer than
expected due to compliance with national laws and internal control procedures. Despite
the effort of the MOH, the UGSAF and the actors involved, internal procedures generated
delays in payments to mobile health teams and gaps in the provision of health services.

34.     Assessment of risks. Risks were properly considered, with the most important
being: (i) weak country and sectoral level strategic planning as a basis for budget
allocation; (ii) overlap among donors. However, despite mitigation measures correctly
identified for these main risks, execution was not carried out. For instance, a policy
framework to clarify the division of responsibility among development partners was
suggested but not fulfilled. In addition, no sub-national operational risks were considered,
only country and national sectoral level, and during the implementation phase sub-
national weaknesses (in the Regional Departments of Health for instance) jeopardized
overall implementation.

2.2 Implementation

35.     The per capita payments and RBF model created the incentives for the health
sector and mobile health teams to successfully achieve four of the five PDO indicators. In
addition, the Project maintained a Moderately Satisfactory rating during implementation.
However, there were implementation challenges during the operation:

36.     Despite having an RBF approach, the Project had a complicated verification
process – established in the Project’s Operations Manual - for the review and approval of
the per capita payments that involved several actors performing repetitive tasks. First, at
the sub-national level, reports were prepared and reviewed by private sector provider and
the Regional Department of Health. Then, the reports were transported to the central
national level, where they were reviewed by the National Directorate of Health Service
Delivery of the MOH, the UGSAF, the Comptroller’s Office and the IAF. In many cases
the information reviewed by these offices was similar such as, the name and existence of
a beneficiary to prevent false reporting, the correct recording of each beneficiaries’
information and the health service delivered, and the results indicators. In addition, not




                                             8
only did the review cycle involve several public offices, the Project also required a high
number of reports per rural community: one every two, six and twelve months. In total,
approximately 720 reports had to be reviewed every year by the offices mentioned above.
Key personnel from the MOH and UGSAF dedicated several hours to oversee this
procedure. To complete the verification process for each report took at least three months
if there was no discrepancy. However, in cases with discrepancies, the process could take
up to a year or more. In any case, the complicated review process resulted in significant
delays in payments which subsequently affected the provision of health services in the
rural areas by the mobile teams. For instance in 2010, from June to August, services were
not delivered. Finally, the review process focused on reporting and did not fully
guarantee that health services were actually delivered in the field.

37.     In order to strength the stewardship role of the MOH and support the
decentralization process, the Project involved the sub-national levels of health, the
Regional Departments of Health (RDHs), and established that funds were transferred
from the central level MOH to the RDH and finally to the private sector provider.
Although it was a good initiative, implementation showed that it added an additional
layer of compliance with laws and control mechanisms for the national and sub national
levels. For instance, it increased the number of administrative steps from 16 to 32,
contributing to the delays in the review process and the per capita and RBF payments.

38.     All the procedures mentioned above heavily relied, at the beginning of the
Project, on paper reports and manual procedures. Later, as part of Project’s activities to
improve the MOH information system, a software solution was implemented that allowed
the use of CDs which helped reduce the number of paper reports produced. However, the
reporting process still demanded a significant amount of time from the Project’s human
resources. The Project could have invested in the development of automatized and online
solutions early on during implementation to support the coordination among the many
verification layers and reduce the paper-based reporting which can lend itself to natural,
human error. In addition, the mid-term review –September, 2011- could have been used
to rethink the whole payment process and how the processes related to implementing the
RBF scheme could have been made more efficient.




                                            9
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

39.     M&E design. Adequate indicators were identified to monitor progress towards
the PDO. There were five PDO-level indicators, not an excessive number, which
contributed to proper monitoring. Indicator 1 (prenatal controls), 2 (vaccination) and 3
(births attended by trained personnel) were directly related to the first Project objective:
to increase access of rural communities to basic health services for improving mother and
child basic health. These indicators are frequently used in similar programs, and therefore
are easy to understand by professionals in the health sector and in project management. In
addition, these indicators are linked to international goals and commitments hence they
are already constantly monitored by national health systems.

40.     Indicator 4 (national strategy) and Indicator 5 (rural patients receiving proper
treatment for diabetes and hypertension) were connected to the second PDO. On one
hand, Indicator 4 had a direct and clear connection with the second PDO and was very
straightforward because it involved the implementation of a National and Demographic
Health Survey, the first one in Panama. On the other hand, there is no clear connection
between Indicator 5 and the second PDO. In addition, Indicator 5 is not yet widely used
in developing countries; however, Panama has a chronic diseases program for these two
pathologies hence it had experience to measure and monitor them. Finally, according to
the PAD, the Project had a quality of health service dimension that was not captured nor
measured by the indicators. The indicators focused on access to health services and not
into quality of these services.




                                            10
41.    The Project had six intermediate indicators to monitor components’ progress.
These indicators were adequate in number and in nature because they were in clear line
with components objectives and had a right focus on monitoring the progress of
implementation. No baseline data were defined at design stage, asking the related
government institutions to carry out this task during Project Implementation. The
innovation on the indicators was that the denominator was defined as a roster of
beneficiaries and not the estimated population, allowing to a more precise monitoring of
progress towards the targets. However, the indicators’ definition was not explicit in
mentioning that the indicators only referred to the target population included in the roster.

42.     M&E implementation. The UGSAF managed the collection of data from all
agencies, data monitoring and evaluation. However, as described above, the process of
data collection involved several institutions (MOH, UGSAF, RDH and OEs, OIs) and
was manually intense, which complicated the monitoring process and delayed the
production of information. This situation improved with the introduction of a software for
data collection and reporting. According to stakeholders interviewed, there was also lack
of training and supervision of the professionals registering the information. As
established at the project design stage, the baseline was planned to be produced by the
end of the first year of implementation. However, due to initial delays in Project
implementation that also affected the prompt execution of the baseline, the baseline was
produced during the second half of the second year of implementation.

43.    M&E utilization. The long process that was required for collecting, analyzing
and verifying the data and indicators severely jeopardized M&E utilization. Information
about progress on the indicators was available several months (at least three months) after
the actual provision of services in the rural area. Hence, the system did not allow for
timely and constant measurement and feedback to inform Project progress.




                                             11
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

44.   The safeguard policies triggered by the Project were two: (i) Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01) and (ii) Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10).

45.     The Project triggered OP 4.01 due to possible increases in the production of
healthcare waste and minor rehabilitation works. The Project was not expected to
generate any large scale, significant, or irreversible impacts, but localized impacts were
possible from the improper transport, treatment or final disposal of healthcare waste by
mobile teams or regional health facilities. As a result, the MOH generated a unified
Environmental Assessment and Healthcare Waste Action Plan in order to mitigate the
impacts of the Project. The Action Plan was implemented and included detailed
checklists of procedures (from generation to disposal) tailored to the mobile team
situation. The compliance of the checklist by mobile teams was supervised by the
subnational health teams. The MOH also conducted an environmental screening and
developed procedures for contractors outlining environmental, health and safety
guidelines. However, because no intervention on primary health care facilities was
executed such procedures were no utilized.

46.     Approximately 9.6 percent of Panama’s population are indigenous peoples, the
majority (82 percent) live in rural areas where health outcomes are lower than the rest of
the population. The Project did not target indigenous jurisdictions (comarcas),
nevertheless it triggered OP 4.10 because it included activities to support the
implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Plan. The Project, in collaboration with other
funds, partially financed trainings of health professionals about good practices of cultural
adaptation of heath care services

47.    Fiduciary compliance and Procurement. The MOH, through the UGSAF, was
responsible for the financial management tasks of the Project, including: (i) budget
formulation and monitoring; (ii) cash flow management; (iii) maintenance of accounting
records; (iv) preparation of financial reports; (v) administration of underlying information
systems; and (vi) arranging for the carrying out of external audits. In accordance with
OP/BP 10.02 and the "Financial Management Practices in World Bank Financed
Investment Operations", LCSFM completed a Financial Management Assessment
(FMA). The FMA concluded that UGSAF had prior experience with managing the
administrative and financial management aspects of externally financed projects;
therefore, the unit already had in place the capacity necessary to monitor the financial
aspects of the Project, as well as a basic administrative structure and financial
management systems.

48.      The Project finished with a Moderately Satisfactory Financial Management (FM)
rating. Based on the FM supervisions carried out during the project life, it was concluded
that: (i) the FM provided reasonable assurance that the loan proceeds were used for the
intended purposes; (ii) the FM-related arrangements allowed an appropriate level of
transparency that facilitated oversight and control and supported smooth Project
implementation; and (iii) the legal FM-related covenants were met. The major FM-related




                                            12
issues identified and followed-up during the final year of project implementation
included: (i) occasional delays in submission of project Interim Financial Reports (IFRs)
and audit reports, including the additional information requested by the Bank; (ii) delays
in submission and low quality of the audit and operational audits of the transfers made
under component/disbursement category 1, taking into consideration that the acceptance
of such audits was a condition for disbursement under afore mentioned category 1; (iii)
delays in execution of the local counterpart funds, agreed in the PAD. Procurement was
rated “Satisfactory” during the life of the project. In a few cases MOH’s internal
procedures caused delays to final award and contract signing and implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

49.    Presently, Panama’s MEF is considering a request from the MOH for a new
health operation to be financed by the World Bank. This operation will finance the
implementation of the DHS and continue the RBF model to address challenges related to
maternal mortality.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

50.     The rating for relevance of objectives, design and implementation is Substantial.
The Project contributed to increased access of underserved rural communities to basic
health services which was a country priority. Rural communities have always
experienced poverty and the worst health indicators and for Governments in Latin
America it has been a challenge to improve their situation. For instance, in Panama, the
national percentage of women delivering children with the assistance of trained personnel
has been above 90 percent since the year 2000 (it was 86.3 percent in 1991). And, also
since the year 2000, the percentage of children below 1 year receiving with MMR and
BCG immunization has been above 85 percent. However, for the target population of the
Project, only 6 percent of women delivery with the assistance of a trained personnel and
only 26 percent of children had complete vaccination. The target population had a very
low starting point that reflects the challenge to reach and deliver health services in rural
areas, difficulties such as the lack of proper infrastructure and equipment, the lack of
proper transportation, cultural barriers, financial barriers, and the lack of health
professionals willing to work in these remote areas, and so on. This difference between
the progress in national averages and the marginalized target population, and the
challenge involved in changing this situation, made the PDO highly relevant and in line,
at that time, with the Millennium Development Goals. And reducing inequality will
continue being a priority in the Sustainable Development Goals that the World Bank
Group - including the Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice - is currently
supporting. Finally, it should be emphasized that the Project supported the delivery of a
complete package of health services - and not additional or new health services- and that
without the EEC supported by the World Bank rural communities wouldn’t have access
to health services at all.




                                            13
51.     The design of the Project, that included a per capita and RBF model, was key for
generating the incentives to deliver health services to poor rural populations. The causal
chain was clear, convincing and supported by evidence from previous interventions. The
Project generated new evidence about how successful per capita and RBF mechanisms
can be for achieving results and closing inequality gaps. Despite the implementation
difficulties, the Project provided a valuable learning experience for the MOH about how
to implement RBF mechanisms, lessons that are now incorporated in new initiatives in
the health sector.

52.     In the public sector, the MOH frequently faced problems for delivering health
services in rural communities such as lack of proper transportation to reach rural areas (to
mobilize both health personnel and supplies); lack of medicines, supplies and
instruments; difficulties to quickly hire and replace health human resources that decided
to move to another rural or urban positions. By contrast, the private sector providers,
through the Project, had the flexibility to quickly adapt to the demands and difficulties of
working in rural areas. For instance, they arranged the proper transportation for health
personnel and supplies, provided health professional with proper equipment for executing
health exams in the field such as control of blood pressure, glycaemia, urinary tract
infections, otoscopic examination, Papanicolaou test among others. In addition, the
Project per capita RBF mechanisms created the incentives for OEs and OIs to achieve
results on the ground and, in some cases, the OEs had strong financial bases allowing
them to maintain the delivery of services despite the payment delays.

53.     In conclusion, the Project’s objectives, design and implementation were relevant
for tackling health inequalities in rural areas where a large part of the poor and extreme
poor live.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

54.    Achievements against each project development objective are described and
assessed below:

(i) PDO 1 - Increased access of targeted underserved rural communities to quality
basic health services known to improve mother and child health. Rating: Substantial.

55.    This first PDO was supported through Component 1 and Component 2 which
aimed to ensure access to a basic health service package and increase responsiveness of
primary health services networks for the poor in rural areas. According to the audited
data for the Project, a total of nearly 180,000 beneficiaries per year from rural non-
indigenous areas received regular access to a basic package of health services through the
mobile health teams financed under Component 1. This first PDO was measured by a
total of six indicators, three of which were PDO-level indicators and three were
intermediate indicators. Of the six indicators, a total of four were either surpassed or
achieved, and two were not achieved. These are described below.




                                            14
      PDO Indicator 1. Percentage of pregnant women with at least 3 prenatal controls
       (one in each trimester). Surpassed.

56.    The target of 70 percent was surpassed with an actual achievement of 86.1 percent.
The factors contributing to the target having been surpassed were the emphasis given to
early pregnancy monitoring and the coordination of the mobile health teams with the
MOH fixed health facilities in the rural areas to avoid the loss of registered cases and
ensure proper follow up of pregnant women.

      PDO Indicator 2. Percentage of children below 1 year with a complete
       vaccination scheme for their age. Surpassed.

57.     The formally revised target of 85 percent was surpassed with an actual
achievement of 96.1 percent. The factors contributing to the target having been
surpassed relate to the coordination of the mobile health teams with the MOH fixed
health facilities to avoid the loss of recorded data for cases in which mothers may have
first sought immunizations in the health clinic and not with the mobile health teams. In
addition, the increase in demand for health services (promoted by CCT RO) in the first
year of life provided ample opportunities for applying the vaccinations and the mobile
health teams conducted frequent visits (at least every two months), both directly
contributing to the target having been surpassed.

      PDO Indicator 3. Percentage of women delivering children with the assistance of
       trained personnel from MOH. Surpassed.

58.    The formally revised target of 65 percent was surpassed with an actual
achievement of 92.76 percent. The Project provided a clear incentive (capitation
payment per beneficiary) for mobile health teams to enroll pregnant women into the
MOH prenatal control program and refer women for delivery to the closest MOH facility.
In addition, CCT RO also provided incentives to beneficiaries for seeking care with the
mobile health teams and health clinics.

      Intermediate Indicator 1. Component 1 – Percentage of health regions that achieve
       more than 80 percent of agreed intermediary outcome targets. Not Achieved.

59.    Due to political pressure, the MOH transitioned to performance monitoring
system in which targets were negotiated with each Regional Department of Health to one
where the MOH set very high common targets across all indicators for all the regions.
This decision did not take into consideration the different challenges and baselines in
each region. For instance, all regions had to achieve 100 percent of pregnant women
covered with at least three prenatal controls. This resulted in only one region having
achieved more than 80 percent of the agreed targets, resulting in an overall achievement
of 20 percent.




                                          15
      Intermediate Indicator 2. Component 2 – Percentage of health regions that
       complete survey and mapping of human resources, equipment, and infrastructure.
       Surpassed.

60.     All the Regional Departments of Health were able to complete the diagnostic and
mapping of existing human resources for health, equipment, and infrastructure. The
Project financed workshops where the national, regional, and local levels participated on
how to carry out the diagnostic and mapping.

      Intermediate Indicator 3. Component 2 – Percentage of health regions that have
       successfully complied with accreditation plan of primary health care units in
       communities targeted by Component 1. Not Achieved.

61.    Intermediate Indicator 3 was not achieved since funding needed to comply with
accreditation was transferred to Component 1 to continue financing the provision of
health services in the rural areas. This indicator is directly linked to Intermediate
Indicator 1 which was also not achieved. Intermediate Indicator #1 required all Regional
Departments of Health to achieve a common set of targets across all regions which did
not take into account the varying challenges and contexts of each region. The idea of
Intermediate Indicator #3 was that once each RDH achieved the common set of indicators,
which would trigger each Region accessing funding which would allow it to purchase
needed inputs to comply with accreditation. Since the common targets were only fully
achieved by one region, the funding needed by the RDHs was not triggered.

62.     In addition to the six indicators under the Results Framework, which informed the
achievement of PDO 1, a set of RBF-specific indicators also monitored the Project’s
progress and were the basis for determining the amounts of the capitation-based
payments made by the MOH to both, the OIs and OEs. These RBF indicators monitored,
on the one hand coverage, levels and, on the other hand, performance related to the
delivery of priority health services. Under the RBF scheme, OIs and OEs were paid based
on a per capita amount (US$49.00 for the most accessible rural areas). The potential
maximum payment an OI or OE could receive was the per capita amount multiplied by
the number of enrolled, eligible beneficiaries. The OI and OE mobile networks received a
20 percent advance which was deducted from the first payments in order to ensure
sufficient cash flow for operations. The payments were then made in three parts. A total
of 65 percent of the potential maximum was made every two months based on coverage
levels achieved; 30 percent made every four months based on performance achieved in
the priority health services delivered; and 5 percent paid annually based on a beneficiary
survey. Table 1 and 2 below provide an overview of the Project’s achievement with
regard to the coverage and performance related indicators.
        Table 1. Component 1 RBF Coverage Indicators (2013-2014 Period)
 Indicator           Definition                                                   Result
 Communities         MHT visit at least 85 percent of the communities in a         99%
 visited             population group during each health round.
 Population groups   MHT should protect a minimum of 80 percent of the resident    99%
 protected           beneficiary population in the communities belonging to the



                                            16
                       population group that they are responsible for during each
                       round.
 Protected             MHT should treat a minimum of 50 percent of the protected            62%
 population            population through the different services of promotion,
 effectively treated   prevention or attention established in the portfolio of
                       incentivized services.
 Protected children    MHT should treat a minimum of 80 percent of the registered           97%
 under 24 months       population younger than 24 months old, through growth and
 treated               development check-ups outlined in the PSPV.
 Days of services      MHT should provide the PSPV with 38 days of direct medical        100%
                       services to the population, per health round.
 Source: MOH-UGSAF Progress Report for the Period July 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014

63.    The first payment was based on coverage and was made every two months (at the
end of each health round) and could be a maximum of 65 percent of the per capita
amount. Payment was based on achieving target coverage levels for the 5 indicators in
Table 1 above. If these targets were not met, the percentage of the per capita amount that
the RDH or private sector provider received was determined by a table that defined a
percentage level according to the degree of achievement. The rule used to determine the
payment was choosing the lowest percentage achieved for the five indicators.

       Table 2. Component 1 RBF Performance Indicators (2013-2014 period)
No. Indicator                                                       OEs                OIs
1   Percentage of pregnant women with at least three                78%                17%
    antenatal check-ups (one per trimester) by the end of the
    third trimester
2   Percentage of pregnant women registered out of                  80%                22%
    estimated total
3   Percentage of pregnant women with second dose or                89%                21%
    booster of TT or TD
4   Percentage of births attended by trained staff                  88%                23%
5   Percentage of women 20 years or older who have had              67%                11%
    pap smears
6   Percentage of children under one year who have had              92%                16%
    four or more growth-and-development check-ups
7   Percentage of children under one year with a complete           94%                20%
    vaccination record
8   Percentage of children aged four with at least two              87%                13%
    growth-and-development check–ups
9   Percentage of children aged one to four years old with a        89%                15%
    complete vaccination record
10 Percentage of symptomatic respiratory diseases                   13%                3%
    recorded out of estimated total
  Source: MOH-UGSAF Progress Report for the Period July 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014

64.     The second tranche payment, paid every 4 months, was based on performance
levels achieved and could be for a maximum of 30 percent of the per capita amount. The
results from the previous period were supposed to be used as the basis for setting the



                                              17
targets for the next period; and the MOH, UGSAF and the RDH would meet every four
months to establish the threshold levels indicator by indicator and by population group.
However, the complexity of the Project generated delays in the flow of information that
made this planning exercise difficult. As Table 2 above shows, the OEs had a better
performance in achieving the performance indicators comparted to the OIs.

(ii) PDO 2 - Support the development of strategic planning, regulatory, and monitoring
mechanisms known to improve health system performance. Rating: Modest.

65.     The second PDO was supported through Component 3 which aimed to strengthen
the MOH institutional capacity to carry out its stewardship role in the health sector. It
was measured by a total of five indicators, two PDO indicators and three intermediate
indicators of which a total of three were either surpassed or achieved, and two were not
achieved.

      PDO Indicator 4. National strategy with baseline and targets on improving equity
       in access to health care services established using DHS data. Not Achieved.

66.     The national strategy was based on DHS data; however, the DHS was not carried
out. The DHS was not carried out because: a) delays in initiating Project implementation,
b) lack of funding. At the beginning of Project Implementation there was an initial delay
of almost 15 months. According to the mid-term review (September 2011) documentation,
the delay was due to change in government authorities after the elections, the review of
Project commitments, Project legal approval, among other reasons. Once Project started
implementation and preparation of DHS, funds were transferred from Component 3 to
Component 1 in order to continue financing the increasing costs of the provision of health
services in rural areas which was considered the priority. Public sources were going to be
used to finance this activity, consequently the indicator was not formally revised. Terms
of Reference were jointly developed by the MOH in partnership with the Instituto
Conmemorativo Gorgas de Ciencias de la Salud and the National Institute for Statistics.
However, funds were not obtained and at the end of the Project the DHS was not
implemented. The MOH and Bank team are presently exploring financing the DHS under
the new Social Protection Project under preparation.

      PDO Indicator 5. Percentage of individuals from rural areas diagnosed with
       diabetes and hypertension in need of medication receiving prescribed drugs by
       primary health care units according to the Ministry of Health Protocol. Achieved.

67.     The original target of 55 percent for both diabetes and hypertension was achieved
for diabetes with an actual value of 54.37 percent and surpassed for hypertension with an
actual value of 78 percent. Despite diabetes not having reached the full 55 percent, the
difference between what was achieved (54.37) and the target of 55 percent is statistically
insignificant and considered achieved. The Project promoted and financed the
identification and registration of chronic disease patients and the proper treatment.




                                           18
      Intermediate Indicator 4. Component 3 – Establishment of a baseline on access to
       primary health care services by the poor in rural areas using data from the
       demographic and health survey. Not Achieved.

68.      PDO Indicator 4 (above) and Intermediate Indicator 4 are directly linked as the
latter (establishing the baseline) depended on the former (DHS) being completed. Since
the DHS was not carried out, the Project was unable to establish a national baseline on
aces to primary health care services for the entire country. This national baseline was
different from the Project baseline focus on selected communities and based on an
individualized roster.

       Intermediate Indicator 5. Component 3 – Percentage of drugs from the Primary
        Health Care Level Essential Drug List that is available at health centers.
        Achieved.
69.     This target was achieved with 80 percent of drugs from the Primary Health Care
Level Essential Drug List being available at the health centers. The Project financed
training which strengthened the procurement function of the basic health units that
provide health services and who were required to carry out evidence-based planning
based on an identified and registered population. The coordination with the MOH health
network was strengthened to provide these basic health units with the essential medicines
through rounds and by providing trainings and technical assistance.

      Intermediate Indicator 6. Component 3 – Percentage of health regions using
       automated monitoring and information system for assessing achievement of
       results of primary health care providers. Surpassed.

70.    The target of 80 percent was surpassed with an actual achievement of 100 percent.
The key factors contributing to surpassing this indicator target was an intense training
program with each Regional Department of Health which included basic elements such as
software installation, activities with practical examples, and the continuous support of the
system. The Project financed the training program and also financed the procurement of
the work stations.

71.     The Project surpassed its targets for three PDO indicators, achieved its target for
one, and only one was not achieved. The four indicators surpassed or achieved are
directly connected to very relevant results for the poor. They were related to the delivery
of health services in the rural communities in order to tackle inequality. Like in many
other countries in Latin America, Panama’s health outcomes in rural areas have been low
for decades. In the six years the Project was implemented, it achieved a remarkable
improvement of rural health situation: the Project contributed to increase the percentage
of pregnant women with at least 3 prenatal controls from 20 percent (2010) to 86.1
percent (2014); the coverage with the full vaccination scheme for less than 1 year
children increased from 26 percent (2010) to 96.1 percent (2014); and the delivery of
children with the assistance of trained personnel increased from 6 percent (2010) to 92.76
percent (2014). Even for chronic health problems like diabetes and hypertension, patients
receiving medication reached 54.37 percent and 78 percent, respectively. These



                                            19
remarkable results were possible due to the work of the MOH, the UGSAF, and the
mobile health teams from the public and private sector contracted and supervised under
the scheme of per capita and RBF payments. This was a goal difficult to achieve it is still
at the core of Panama and World Bank development objectives.

72.    On the basis of ratings for the two parts of the PDO, the overall rating is weighed
in favor of PDO1, also taking into account total project funds spent to achieve the
intended outcomes under PDO1 (89% of total project costs). In addition, the Project
achieved 80% of PDO indicators, and all of the indicators achieved were related to the
delivery of health services to the poor in remote rural areas. Hence, overall rating for
Efficacy is Substantial.



3.3 Efficiency

73.     The rating for efficiency is Modest. Based upon the costs and measurable
economic benefits of the Project, results of the cost-benefit analysis suggested that
Project benefits exceeded Project costs in term of net present value. The MOH, with the
support of a consulting firm and IADB’s PMTISS, estimated the costing of capitation
payments to ensure access to a basic package of primary health care services. This
estimate considered indicators such as rates of use of the services by the beneficiary
population, cost differences across the regions, difficulties in accessing the services, and
the epidemiological profile of the population covered. The average unit cost of the
package was estimated to be US$27.3 per capita. However, during the implementation
phase of the Project, the per capita was recalculated and estimated at US$40.88 per capita
for the years 2009-2011 and US$49.00 per capita for the years 2012-2014.

74.    For the ICR, two types of benefits for the target population of the Project were
estimated for the cost-benefit analysis: i) deaths avoided during the period of
implementation of the Project, ii) lives with disability avoided as a result of the Project.
The criteria adopted to evaluate the economic efficiency of the Project included the Net
Present Value (NPV) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR). In addition, a sensitivity
analysis was included to consider different hypotheses on the effectiveness of the Project.
Assumptions made for the economic analysis include:

75.     The productive life for the poor was considered to be from the period of 20 to 60
years of age. Benefits of the lives saved were calculated using the salary of US$188.74
monthly, which was the average salary for rural areas reported by the Ministry of Finance
for the year 2011. A discount rate of 10 percent, which represents the investment
opportunity cost of project resources, was used to discount total benefits generated by the
Project.

76.    Taking all this into consideration, the Project’s proposed interventions generated a
net economic benefit of US$85 million, in present value terms. The internal rate of return
of the Project was calculated at 24.97 percent, which exceeded the 10 percent discount




                                            20
rate. In other words, other alternatives would have obtained 10 percent versus the 24
percent generated by investing in this health Project. Even under a 20 percent reduction
scenario, the 16 percent IRR was higher than the discount rate. Finally, it should be
emphasized that the Project supported the delivery of a complete package of health
services and not additional or new health services. And that without the EEC supported
by the Bank rural communities wouldn’t have access to health services at all.

77.     Despite the Project has a favorable economic analysis based on the NPV and IRR,
the operation generated an undesirable burden on the public sector (MOH, UGSAF,
RDH, Comptroller’s Office), associated with an unintended waste of humans resources
time, capacities, and efforts.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.   The Project’s overall outcome is based on the achievement of the majority of the
PDO indicators (four out of five), its relevance and efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

79.    The Project targeted excluded populations, particularly the rural poor. In addition,
the focus was on maternal and child health. See previous section 3.4 for results.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

80.     The achievement of PDO indicators was possible because the RBF approach
created the incentives for service delivery on the ground and allowed to contract, pay and
manage mobile health teams under a results framework. The RBF institutional
arrangement is now being used to improve the delivery of services in primary health care
clinics and has the potential to scale to other levels of care.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

81.    The EEC has been financed by international donors since 1995. After Project
closure the GOP continued financing the provision of health services using an IADB loan
that will conclude in 2016. The GOP is currently preparing a new project to continue
financing and improving the health services provided, a project that World Bank aims to
support.



                                            21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.     During Project preparation, a group of professionals with vast experience in
health programs in general, and with experience in RBF in particular, were gathered to
prepare the Project design and tackle the clients’ sectorial problems. The team relied
heavily on lessons learned from previous World Bank financed and IADB financed
projects. In addition, the Project was consistent with the Government’s strategy and
priorities in the health sector and with globally agreed goals. However, the per capita cost
for Component 1 was underestimated and this situation negatively influenced the
implementation of Components 2 and Component 3.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     Adequate budget and staff resources were allocated. World Bank supervision
missions took place on regular basis and the Project was closely monitored. In addition,
restructurings prove that the World Bank addressed problems that emerged in a timely
manner. Aide memories provide evidence that the World Bank offered advice and
observations. There were two major problems that were discussed with MOH authorities
during supervisions but not properly addressed by the World Bank: a) the pronounced
increase in capitation costs that at the end compromised the achievement of the second
PDO. Possibilities to address this issue could have included additional funding or the
restructuring of component 3; b) the Project verification process for the innovative
payment mechanisms were very complex and put an excessive administrative burden on
public offices that affected the operation. It caused delays on payment to mobile health
teams that interrupted the provision of basic health services. This complex process –
established in the Project’s Operations Manual - was in place during the six years the
Project was implemented. Despite there were discussions about this problem no solution
was implemented, nor was a review conducted of the valued added by the verification
process at each office, nor was the Project’s Operations Manual modified to simplify the
process.

84.    Fiduciary and safeguards policies were properly followed and reported.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.    The World Bank provided a moderately satisfactory quality at entry and offered a
proper and close supervision. However, the Project had complex administrative processes
under the RBF component that jeopardized the operation and was not properly addressed
by the World Bank.




                                            22
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.    The GOP supported this operation during its design and implementation.
Evidence of its support is the willingness and agreement to adopt an innovative payment
mechanism such as per capita payments and RBF. In addition, this is exemplified by the
GOP willingness to contract private sector organizations to deliver public services. In
addition, the GOP was successful in achieving full loan disbursement. However, due to
the complex administrative process for reviewing the results and approving the per capita
payments, there were severe delays in per capita payments to RDH and MHT.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.     The MOH, through the UGSAF, was the lead implementing agency for the
Project.
Despite the complexity of the Project: several different actors, several different regions,
new payment mechanisms, the MOH and the UGSAF managed to achieve four of the
five PDO indicators. However, the implementation of the DHS, an activity related to one
PDO indicator, was not carried out because the funds were transferred to cover the
increasing per capita costs related to the delivery of prioritized health services under
Component 1. The terms of reference for the DHS were elaborated and the MOH tried to
cover the cost of its implementation using public funds, however, it was not possible.

88.      Despite a delayed beginning, during the implementation, the MOH showed its
commitment to the Project by organizing stakeholders’ consultations, and by managing
all the arrangements for implementing RBF (Component 1), including the monitoring and
evaluation aspects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.     Despite the fact that the DHS was not implemented and the 2013 payment to
private sector providers is pending, the Project overcame a severe administrative burden
and achieved and even surpassed four of the five PDOs. In addition, the health services
package is currently being provided (using a loan from IADB) and it has secure funding
until 2016. Based on the positive experience of HEPI, the MOH has decided to test new
management agreements based on results with primary health care facilities.

6. Lessons Learned

90.     Per capita payments and RBF are efficient policy tools to generate incentives for
delivering health services to communities in rural areas. Furthermore, per capita
payments and RBF can be useful not only for tackling old challenges like a maternal and



                                            23
child health service coverage, but also for new problems such as proper treatment of
diabetes and hypertension. However, when establishing the per capita cost, estimates
should be updated and take into consideration the variation of regional costs to avoid
problems like in the case of the HEPI Project where the costs substantially increased
affecting the implementation of other activities. In addition, it is necessary to secure the
proper controls and to comply with national administrative laws and regulations.
However, the verification process should be carefully designed to avoid complex
processes that threaten the achievement of results, as occurred in the HEPI Project.
Constant evaluation of the burden of new procedures is generating in the public sector, its
relevance, and utility for achieving results is required. Roles and responsibilities also
should be clearly defined.

91.     In addition, when implementing RBF mechanisms, the time period between the
delivery of the health package and the verification and payment should be short,
otherwise it could compromise the financial situation of providers and consequently
jeopardize the delivery of services. In addition, if the time between service provision and
payment is too long, it affects the perception of the payment actually being based on
results. To shorten this period of time and avoid the duplication of steps in the RBF
process, the roles of the different organizations involved in the implementation of the
RBF scheme should be clearly defined and procedures must be made simple. In addition,
when preparing indicators, there should be a balance between the technical and
administrative objectives.

92.    Private sector providers can be partners in the delivery of health services to the
poor in rural areas, but this requires the MOH to perform a strong supervision role. In the
HEPI Project, private sector providers showed they had the flexibility to rapidly adapt to
adverse geographical conditions and overcome traditional public sector problems such as
shortage of medicines or equipment. In addition, they had the financial capacity to
continue delivering services in the rural areas despite the delays in payments. However,
the participation of the private sector requires the MOH to be capable of performing a
strong supervision role, particularly at the regional levels, to secure contract compliance
and quality of the health services delivered. A capacity usually weak at regional levels.

93.     Integrated and automated information systems can facilitate per capita payments,
RBF and sector management. The verification process used information systems that
were not well integrated and required an extensive manual review. Such manual reviews
were inefficient, carried high transaction costs, and could produce reporting errors.
Information about the Project was not available in a timely manner for decision making.
Information systems could be integrated and automated to increase efficiencies and
produce prompt information for sector management and results monitoring. In addition,
these information systems should be as much independent and transparent as possible,
and use the country indicators definitions.

94.     Coordination among lending institutions is key to reduce the burden on public
offices and avoid potential financial gaps and service provision. The HEPI Project was in
line and financially supported the EEC strategy that started in the late nineties in Panama.




                                            24
Since the beginning, the ECC strategy was financed by several international financial
institutions, mainly the IADB and the World Bank. The management of different
financial sources (projects) generates a burden on the implementing agency, and it also
sporadically generates financial gaps that could affect the provision of services. The main
international financial institutions could dialogue and discuss with the Government a long
term plan for financing together key health goals, programs and interventions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
   (a) Borrower/implementing agencies
       See Annex 7.

    (b) Cofinanciers

    (c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of   Percentage of
          Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                              Appraisal       Final Loan
                                                             millions)
Component 1: Ensuring access
to primary health care services      25,795,400.00        35,659,221.69            64.48          89.14
by the poor in rural areas
Component 2: Increase
responsiveness of primary
health services networks to              6,205,400.00       328,850.29             16.10          0.82
vulnerable populations in rural
areas
Component 3: Strengthening
MOH’s institutional capacity to
                                         6,987,950.00      4,008,785.81            18.78          10.04
exercise stewardship in the
health sector
           Total Baseline Cost       40,000,000.00        40,000,000.00           100.00         100.00
            Total Project Costs               0.00                 0.00
     Total Financing Required        40,000,000.00        40,000,000.00


    (b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of      Estimate    Estimate
          Source of Funds                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
                                         Cofinancing     (USD        (USD
                                                        millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                 18.73       16.30        87.02
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          40.00           40.00      100.00
and Development




                                                26
    Annex 2. Outputs by Component

         Component                Planned outputs at Appraisal      Actual outputs/outcomes
                                                                            at ICR

Component 1: Ensuring access      1. Increase access by targeted    On average, 180,000
to primary health care services   underserved communities to        beneficiaries were enrolled
by the poor in rural areas.       basic health services known to    into the PSPV and health
                                  improve mother and child          services were provided to
                                  health care.                      them.

Component 2: Increase             2.1. Strengthening health         A survey and mapping of
responsiveness of primary         regions’ management capacity      human resources,
health services networks to       to develop and implement          equipment and
vulnerable populations in rural   primary health care               infrastructure was
areas                             interventions in rural areas.     completed by health
                                                                    regions.

                                                                    An accreditation plan was
                                                                    successfully complied by
                                                                    health regions.
                                  2.2. Improving the delivery of    Training of health
                                  health services to vulnerable     personnel for intercultural
                                  populations living in remote      health services provision.
                                  rural areas.
Component 3: Strengthening        3.1. Improving the MOH’s          National Health Strategy
MOH’s institutional capacity      institutional capacity for        was elaborated.
to exercise stewardship in the    strategic analysis and planning
health sector                     to improve performance in the     Terms of Reference for
                                  health sector.                    DHS were prepared.

                                  3.2. Update health regulations    Primary Health Care Level
                                  and revise enforcement            Essential Drug List is
                                  mechanisms.                       available at health centers.

                                  3.3. Strengthening management     Health information system
                                  and monitoring, and               was developed and
                                  information systems of national   implemented for automated
                                  programs to improve access to     monitoring and assessing
                                  health services by the poor.      achievement of results of
                                                                    the primary health care
                                                                    providers.




                                                27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. This annex presents the cost-benefit analysis of the Health Equity and
   Performance Improvement Project, based upon the costs and measurable
   economic benefits of the Project. The cost-benefit analysis suggests that project
   benefits exceeded project costs in term of present value.

   Package of basic health services: the average unit cost

2. Since 2003, the MOH has developed a national program to increase access to
   health services in rural areas utilizing innovative disbursement mechanisms that
   create incentives for providers to achieve better results.

3. A basic health services package was established and delivered to rural populations
   through mobile teams from the MOH (known as Organizaciones Internas) and
   the private sector (known as Organizaciones Externas). Payments to mobile
   teams were based upon achievement of agreed sanitary goals and verified through
   concurrent external and social audits.

4. In 2002 and 2003, the MOH, with the support of a consulting firm and IADB’s
   PMTISS, estimated the costing of capitation payments to ensure access to a basic
   package of primary health care services. This estimate considered indicators such
   as rates of use of the services by the beneficiary population, cost differences
   across the regions, difficulties in accessing the services, and the epidemiological
   profile of the population covered. The average unit cost of the package was
   estimated to be US$ 27.3 per capita (this was the per capita used in the original
   PAD assessments).

5. However, during the implementation phase of the Project, the per capita was
   recalculated and estimated at US$ 40.88 per capita for the years 2009-2011 and
   US$ 49.00 per capita for the years 2012-2014.

   Economic Analysis

6. Two types of benefits for the target population of the project were estimated for
   the cost-benefit analysis: i) avoided deaths during the period of implementation of
   the Project, ii) lives with disability avoided as a result of the Project. The criteria
   adopted to evaluate the economic efficiency of the Project included the Net
   Present Value (NPV) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR). In addition, a
   sensitivity analysis was included to consider different hypotheses on the
   effectiveness of the Project. Assumptions made for the economic analysis include:

7. Productive life for the poor was considered to be from 20 to 60 years-old.
   Benefits of the lives saved were calculated using the salary of US$188.74
   monthly which was the average salary for rural areas reported by the Ministry of
   Finance for the year 2011. A discount rate of 10 percent, which represents the




                                         28
   investment opportunity cost of project resources, was used to discount total
   benefits generated by the Project.

8. The Project benefits were derived from the economic value of the lives saved and
   disabilities avoided. For the calculation of the Project benefit we focus on the
   future economic value of deaths and disabilities avoided.

9. To obtain the present value of total future benefits generated by the project, total
   present value of deaths avoided and disabilities reduced were calculated using a
   discount rate of 10 percent. A summary of these results is presented in the
   following table:

            Table 1. Estimated present value of total future benefits (US$)
    Year      Present Value of Benefit      Present Value of         Total Benefit
               from Deaths Avoided             Benefit from          Present Value
                                           Disabilities Reduced
    2009          13,537,432.70                101,530.75           13,638,963.44
    2010          14,493,502.36                108,701.27           14,602,203.63
    2011          18,097,750.98                135,733.13           18,233,484.11
    2012          18,702,666.08                140,270.00           18,842,936.08
    2013          15,530,659.25                116,479.94           15,647,139.19
    2014           4,648,218.61                 34,861.64            4,683,080.25
    Total         85,010,229.97                637,576.72           85,647,806.69

10. All this into consideration, the project’s proposed interventions generate a net
    economic benefit of US$85 million, in present value terms.

               Table 2. Net present value on investment rate of return (US$)
     Year      Present value of benefit    Present calue of cost    Present value net
                                                                         benefit
     2009           13,638,963.44              26,905,788.05          8,114,643.47
     2010           14,602,203.63              5,524,319.97           8,658,452.47

     2011           18,233,484.11              5,943,751.16          13,633,484.11
     2012           18,842,936.08              4,600,000.00          11,608,637.36
     2013           15,647,139.19              7,234,298.72          5,855,297.09

     2014           4,683,080.25              9,791,842.1            4,683,080.25
                      NPV (discount rate 10%)                        10,979,959.86
                               IRR                                      24.97%




                                         29
11. The internal rate of return of the Project was calculated in 24.97% percent, which
    exceeded the 10 percent discount rate. In other words, other alternatives would
    obtained 10 percent versus the 24 percent generated by investing in this health
    Project. Even under a 20 percent reduction scenario, the 16 percent IRR was
    higher than the discount rate.

12. Finally, to evaluate the sustainability of the Project, we evaluated its fiscal impact.
    As described in the table below, the implementation of the Project had a fiscal
    impact of maximum 0.55 percent of MOH budget. And in 2012 it was only 0.36
    percent. These figures indicate that the Project is sustainable.

                       Table 3. Fiscal Impact (in millions of US$)
                        2009       2010      2011       2012       2013            2014
Project cost
per year                   7.1         5.5        5.9         4.6        7.3         9.6
MOH annual
budget                  866.2       979.7      1078.8     1263.1     1511.9      1856.1
% of MOH
annual budget             0.82       0.56        0.55       0.36        0.48       0.52




                                          30
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
             Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Fernando Montenegro Torres     Senior Economist (Health)         GHNDR TTL
Luis Orlando Perez             Senior Public Health Spec.        GHNDR Health
Andrea C. Guedes               Senior Operations Officer         GEDDR Operations
                               Senior Financial Management
Fabienne Mroczka                                                 GGODR FM
                               Specialist
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira   Senior Procurement Specialist     GGODR Procurement
Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo        Consultant                        GSURR Indigenous
Natalia Moncada                Senior Executive Assistant        GHNDR Administrative
Supervision/ICR
Keith E. Hansen                Vice President                    GPSVP   Management
Fernando Montenegro Torres     Senior Economist (Health)         GHNDR   TTL
Maria Eugenia Bonilla-Chacin   Senior Economist                  GHNDR   TTL
Carmen Carpio                  Senior Operations Officer         GHNDR   TTL
Renzo Efren Sotomayor Noel     Young Professional                GHNDR   ICR Author
Luis Orlando Perez             Senior Public Health Specialist   GHNDR   Health
Evelyn Rodríguez               Consultant                        GHNDR   Procurement
                               Senior Financial Management
Fabienne Mroczka                                                 GGODR FM
                               Specialist
Dmitri Gourfinkel              Financial Management Specialist   GGODR FM
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira   Senior Procurement Specialist     GGODR Procurement
Evelyn Villatoro               Senior Procurement Specialist     GGODR Procurement
                               Senior Financial Management
Patricia De la Fuente Hoyes                                      GGODR FM
                               Specialist
Fernanda Balduino              Finance Analyst                   WFALN   Disbursements
Solange A. Alliali             Lead Operations Officer           AFCRI   Legal
Natalia Moncada                Senior Executive Assistant        GSURR   Administrative
Sonia M. Levere                Program Assistant                 GHDNR   Administrative




                                          31
   (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                           USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                  No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                         41                         275.193
  FY09                                          0                           0.00
                         Total:                                           275.193
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                       18                            74.869
  FY10                                       18                            84.031
  FY11                                       11                            65.760
  FY12                                       20                            95.093
  FY13                                       22                            95.512
  FY14                                       20                           136.460
  FY15                                       14                            77.434
                         Total:             164                           904.352




                                          32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                    33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


N/A




                                  34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                          Unofficial translation


                             Republic of Panama
                              Ministry of Health
       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)


                                Rep	
HEALTH EQUITY AND PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
               Loan Agreement No. 7587-0-PA

                          PMES)			‐				
                Executive Results Report

                           Panama, March 2015




                                   35
      Glossary of Terms
No.           TERM               ACRONYM                                       DEFINITION
                                  [Spanish
                                  acronym]
 1    Comprehensive                AIN-C     It is a new strategy to look after child health and nutrition based on "self-care" for
      Attention to Childhood                 children in families, by monitoring and promoting growth at community level, and
      in the Community                       for pregnant women, by providing individualized consultancy, iron supplements
                                             and appropriate references from the community to basic attention units for pre-
                                             natal controls.
 2    Social Audit                  AS       It is a follow-up and assessment mechanism by means of which communities may
                                             assess the degree of satisfaction regarding the services delivered by the Basic
                                             Health Teams.
 3    External Technical Audit      ATE      Review of the main aspects of CPP provision, including at least:
                                                  Checking the integrity, truthfulness and consistency of the beneficiary
                                                   population registry and its consistency with the information system.
                                                  Checking the scope of results of coverage indicators and monitoring and
                                                   assessment.
                                                  Checking the use and management of fund transfers made to the Health
                                                   Regions for the provision of CPP by UBAs of the fixed and mobile network.
                                                  Checking the integrity, truthfulness and consistency of the payments made by
                                                   the provision of CPP to UBAs of the fixed and mobile network, which
                                                   correspond to the results achieved.
                                                  Checking the agreement with the provision of health services rendered with
                                                   the CPP, the manuals, regulations, guides and protocols by the UBAs of the
                                                   fixed and mobile network.
                                                  Certify the compliance with the management commitments and contribute to
                                                   the continuous improvement of the operation of the coverage extension
                                                   strategy and the coverage strengthening strategy of primary health attention.
                                                  Certify the compliance with the contractual terms by the providing OA of
                                                   the CPP in the UBAs of the fixed and mobile network.
                                                  Certify any act, fact or indication or omission which may be conceived as a
                                                   prohibited practice.
 4    Prioritized Service           CPP      Is the package of services (including promotion, prevention and treatment) granted
      Package                                to beneficiaries protected by the coverage extension strategy (mobile network) and
                                             the coverage strengthening strategy at the primary healthcare level (fixed
                                             network).
 5    Beneficiary Community          -       Is the community receiving the CPP by the coverage extension strategy (mobile
                                             network) and by the coverage strengthening strategy of primary healthcare level
                                             (fixed network). It is selected by means of the focusing process, which is based
                                             on technical criteria approved by MINSA.
 6    Central Community              -       Is the geographically accessible community from which the population of said
                                             community and the beneficiary population of a group of neighboring communities
                                             are taken care of, which cannot exceed 600 people altogether.
 7    Peripheral Community           -       That community geographically near to a central community where the attention
                                             process to strategy beneficiaries is executed.
 8    Visited Community              -       That community which appears registered with the attention, prevention or
                                             promotion record of an individual and/or in the Daily Activity Registry, as its
                                             origin community during the same round.
 9    Average Unit Cost Per          -       It is the average unit amount of monetary resources to be used as payment base
      Capita                                 associated to each beneficiary.
10    Attention Days                 -       Days dedicated to the direct attention of the population.
11    Transfer Days                  -       Time destined to the EBS mobilization between the beneficiary communities or
                                             between the UBA headquarters and the beneficiary communities.
12    Basic Health Team             EBS      Minimum team of health human resources destined to the CPP provision by the
                                             MINSA. EBS may be Institutional or Extra-institutional, directly hired by the
                                             MINSA or through Extra-institutional Organizations, respectively. EBS are
                                             attached to the UBAs, which may be of the mobile or the fixed network.
13    Community Health              ECS      Members of the community trained by the MINSA so that they support the CPP
      Workers                                provision and follow-up health interventions in the community.
14    Management Team               EG       Human resources included in the support unit for managing, monitoring and




                                                          36
No.             TERM            ACRONYM                                       DEFINITION
                                 [Spanish
                                 acronym]
                                            assessing the UBA's CPP.
15    Circuit                       -       Group of visits performed to one or several beneficiary communities which belong
                                            to a population group.
16    Institutional Circuits       GI       Generic denomination granted to the CPP provision through institutional providers,
                                            i.e., Regional Health Offices (DRS).
17    Population Group             GP       Group of communities which made up a beneficiary sanitary sector of the
                                            strategies. It is the result of the process of grouping previously focused
                                            communities, which maintain accessibility characteristics and communication
                                            lines in common according to the demand flow. One UBA is assigned to each
                                            population group.
18    Nominalization of             -       Process consisting on the finished knowledge of the whole beneficiary population
      healthcare                            of the coverage extension strategy (mobile network) and the coverage
                                            strengthening strategy (fixed network) for the continuous follow-up of each
                                            beneficiary and his/her health condition.
19    Extra-institutional          OE       Social and autonomous organizations legally fit to be hired by the MINSA,
      Organization                          through tender, to provide the CPP.
20    Initial Beneficiary           -       Nominalized list of people resident in communities focused by the MINSA, which
      Registry                              have been registered by the providing UBAs of the CPP and which is delivered by the
                                            MINSA at the beginning of each provision year.
21    Beneficiary Population       PPB      Nominalized list of the total people resident in communities focused by the MINSA
      Registry                              and registered by the UBAs as CPP beneficiaries, prior to the certification of the
                                            registration process which corresponds to the ATE.
22    Certified Beneficiary       PPBC      Nominalized list of the total people resident in communities focused by the MINSA
      Population Registry                   and registered by the UBAs as CPP beneficiaries, which integrity, reliability and
                                            consistency have been certified by the ATE.
23    Capitated Payment             -       Monetary expression of the amount destined to the CPP provision insuring for
                                            each individual incorporated as beneficiary, which corresponds to the calculation
                                            of the average unit cost per capital of the CPP provision.
24    General Population            -       Number of people who have received one (1) care, prevention and/or promotion
      Taken Care of                         activity during one (1) attention round.
25    Population of Less Than       -       Number of children from 0 to 24 months who have received one (1) growth and
      24 Months Taken Care of               development control by the EBS and at least one (1) growth monitoring by the
                                            trained supervisor during one (1) attention round.
26    Beneficiary Population        -       People who belong to beneficiary communities of coverage extension strategy
                                            (mobile network) and/or coverage strengthening strategy (fixed network) and which
                                            are defined and grouped in population groups by means of technical criteria
                                            established by the MINSA to be delivered to the CPP.
27    Protected Population          -       Number of people living in a community which has been visited or looked after
                                            during an attention round.
28    Attention Round               -       Period of time destined to the attention to all the beneficiary communities
                                            belonging to a population group by the Basic Attention Units, whether mobile,
                                            fixed or combined. The duration of a round will be at least of fifty (50) days and
                                            maximum sixty (60) days, and six (6) Rounds should be carried out / Two-month
                                            period of service provision per year.
29    Coverage Strengthening        -       Group of elements among which the beneficiary population, the UBAs, the CPP,
      Information System                    the registry forms, the computing tools and the deliverable reports are included,
                                            which interact among them for processing data and generating information.
30    Basic Attention Unit        UBA       Generic denomination of the different types of strategy service suppliers:
                                                  A- Mobile network: health visits with institutional or extra-institutional basic
                                                       teams in charge of providing the CPP to the beneficiary population.
                                                  B- Fixed network: health centers, health sub-centers and health posts.




                                                         37
     Project Information (Project Card)
                           Project for the Improvement of Equity and Health Performance (PMES, for its
Project Name
                           Spanish acronym)
Start Date                 Effective date: December 8, 2008
                           Closing: December 31, 2014
Completion Date            Extension granted: 6 months upon request of the MEF: New closing date to
                           June 30, 2015
                           USD 40,000,000 World Bank
Amount of the Project      USD 18,730,000 GOPN
                           Total USD 58,730,000
Cooperation or Financing   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) / World
Agency                     Bank
                              Rural population from 10 out of the 14 health regions of the country
                               facing geographical barriers which make its access to the fixed network of
                               MINSA health facilities difficult and which live in conditions of poverty
                               or extreme poverty.
Beneficiaries
                              Vulnerable populations are chosen through a focusing process and then,
                               they are divided into population groups and ascribed to Basic Attention
                               Units, which are in charge of providing this population with the
                               Prioritized Service Portfolio containing health promotion, prevention and
                               attention activities.
                           Reducing the inequity in the health sector by increasing the access to basic
General Purpose            care services in poor rural areas and improving health results, which will
                           benefit the more vulnerable groups of the population.

                           o   Component 1: Health Protection for Vulnerable Populations
                           o   Component 2: Strengthening of service network for Health Protection of
Project Components
                               Vulnerable Populations
                           o   Component 3: Strengthening of MINSA's administrative capacity
                            Health Protection for vulnerable populations (through PSPV)
                            Strengthening of service networks for health protection of vulnerable
                             populations, including, among other things:
                             - Strengthening of management capacity of Regional Health Offices in
                             order to develop primary attention interventions in rural areas
                             - Improvement of health service provision to vulnerable populations
Strategic Points of the      which live in rural areas with access barriers to health services
Project                     Strengthening of MINSA's administrative capacity, including, among
                             other things:
                             - Strengthening of institutional capacity for the analysis and strategic
                             planning in order to improve the performance in the health sector-
                             Strengthening of MINSA's capacity to regulate and control the sector
                             - Strengthening of management, monitoring and information systems of
                             national programs to improve the access of poor people to health services




                                                38
Financial Execution
                            To December 31, 2014, the Financial Execution of the Project was 89.3%.
(Budget Observance)

     Executive Summary

     During the project, MINSA worked to (i) cause the providers and/or executing units to
     manage the operations under their responsibility; (ii) manage the information, monitoring,
     supervision, assessment and audit systems; and (iii) control the operations for the
     purposes of reaching the goals of the development indicators and the intermediate results
     of the Project, thus achieving sustainability of interventions. Once the period established
     in the loan agreement ended, the following chart shows the project Cycle, where the
     service provision periods and the project's financial programming are evidenced and
     where it is indicated that 100% of the agreed term for the implementation of the project
     has been consumed.
                                            Project Cycle




     With respect to the financial Execution, to December 31, 2014, 89.3% of the project's
     funds has been executed. With the already accepted addendum to June 30, 2015, 100%
     will be executed.




     To date, 95% of technical processes have concluded. Thus, the main goals of the PMES
     can be summarized as follows:



                                                 39
(i) 99% of the certified beneficiary population registry was satisfactorily administered by
the 10 Health Regions of the Project.

(ii) 97.8 % of the population groups received basic health services on a continuous basis
through the 8 providers.

(iii) 100% of the Health Regions with primary attention service networks in rural areas
took steps in order to strengthen the organization of service networks and the
authorization of their facilities. Said actions included the following elements:
nominalization of beneficiary population, programming of activities to follow-up the
beneficiaries, application of authorization protocol and request of equipment needs,
supplies and forms to improve the attention according to the approved POA, provision of
prioritized service portfolio, development of information, monitoring, supervision and
assessment systems to comply with the accountability process of the Management
Agreement.

(iv) 100% of identified UBAs through the focusing and registration process of the
beneficiary population of the primary attention service networks in rural areas have
passed to the Equity and Strengthening improvement program of health services
(PMEFSS) in the form of mobile teams and other teams in the form of combined
networks.

 (v) The central MINSA has the updated study of costs per capita of the provision of the
prioritized service portfolio, which is effective as from the second four-month period of
2012. The cost structure of the study will make its application in the fixed networks
easier and will maintain the mobile network updated.

(vi) The central MINSA has the guide to control the prioritized sanitary rules.

(vii) The EEC information, monitoring, supervision, assessment and audit systems
managed by the MINSA are generating important findings (good practices and/or
deviations) to strengthen the operations and reliability of the results.

(viii) The accountability of the providers and DRS has been gradually incorporated,
acknowledging the legitimacy of its actions towards the MINSA and the value created to
the beneficiary population.

Background

General Purpose
Reducing the inequity in the health sector by increasing the access to basic care services
in poor rural areas and improving health results, which will benefit the more vulnerable
groups of the population.

Specific Purpose



                                            40
      Increasing the access of underserviced rural beneficiary communities to basic
       health services, known for helping the improvement of the health of children and
       mothers.

      Supporting the development of the strategic planning and the regulation and
       monitoring mechanism known for improving the health system performance.

Relevant Indicators per Component

Component 1
Development Indicator:
    Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 60% of pregnant women that, at the end of
      the 3rd quarter of pregnancy have completed at least 3 prenatal controls (at least 1
      for every pregnancy quarter).
          o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: A coverage
              of 66% is registered.
    Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 80% of children of less than one year old
      with full vaccination scheme for their age.
          o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: A coverage
              of 87% is registered.

      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 55% of women delivering children with the
       assistance of trained personnel from MINSA.
           o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: A coverage
               of 95% is registered.

Intermediate Result Indicators:

        Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 60% of health regions which reach
         more than 8 from the 10 indicators of agreed results.
       o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: Results are
         good, but the goals were substantially increased in the last year.

Component 2
Development Indicator:

      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 55% of individuals from rural areas
       diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension in need of medication receiving
       prescribed drugs by ambulatory primary healthcare units according to MINSA
       protocols.
       o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: A coverage of
           66% for diabetic patients and 60% for patients with high blood pressure is
           registered.

      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 80% of regional drug supply in health
       centers, according to the basic chart for the first attention level.



                                           41
       o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: the national
         average supply is 75.39%.




Result Indicators:
   Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 90% of health regions which have
      completed the diagnosis and mapping of existing human resources, equipment
      and infrastructure.
      o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: 100% is
          registered.

      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 80% of health regions which comply with
       the facilities authorization plan of first attention level for the population focused
       on component 1.
       o Progress made to date on the 2nd semester of the 6th year of the Project:
           0% progress is registered. With the beginning of the EFC and the UBA
           selection of the fixed network under the capitated financing model, the
           compliance with the authorization plans is expected.

Component 3
Development Indicator

      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 1st report on completed progress
       monitoring.
       o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: The terms of
         reference were reviewed by MINSA technicians in coordination with an
         Interinstitutional Board made up of the ICGES and the INEC. The terms are
         ready and are subject to the approval of the new authorities and waiting for
         financing sources.

Intermediate Result Indicators

      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: Drawing up of the base line on the access
       of poor population to primary attention centers using the information furnished by
       the demography and health survey.

          o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: The terms
            of reference were reviewed by MINSA technicians in coordination with an
            Interinstitutional Board made up of the ICGES and the INEC. The terms
            are ready and are subject to the approval of the new authorities and
            waiting for financing sources. The aspects related to micronutrients were
            also incorporated to this activity in the Survey.




                                            42
      Goal for the 5th year of the Project: 80% of health regions using monitoring
       and information systems for determining the achievement of results of primary
       attention service providers.
           o Progress made on the 2nd semester 6th year of the Project: The 12
               participating DRS use the monitoring and information system for
               determining the achievement of results of its providers, reaching 100%.



Financial Execution

      Loan Resources
          o With respect to the financial execution to December 31, 2014, we can
             mention that accumulated disbursements received from the IBRD
             financing amount to US$40,0000.00, which correspond to 100% of the
             amount agreed with the World Bank.
          o To the presentation of this report, investments made with contribution
             received from the IBRD amounted to US$37,020,261.25. The balance to
             be disbursed from the total received by the IBRD is executed this year
             2015, since all amounts are committed and the Program is in the process
             of paying them.

      Local Compensation Resources
          o With respect to compensation resources, the contribution received amount
             to US$16,300,252 of the total agreed budget of US$18.7 million. To date,
             US$15,397,297.96 of the received resources have been invested. To
             execute 100% of the local contribution of the loan, the MINSA requested
             the MEF for 2015 a budget of US$2,429,748, with which all PMES
             commitments would be cancelled, which was not approved. In the light of
             this situation, MINSA will request an extraordinary credit.

      Combined and pari passu resources
         o The total contribution received by the Project, from both financing
            sources, amount to US$56,300,262, which represent 95.9% of the total
            budget of US$58.7 million. Accumulated contribution of compensation
            resources, for US$16,300,252 correspond to 29% of the total received
            contribution. If we consider that the agreed pari passu is 68/32, we
            observe that the contribution received from the compensation do not
            comply with the pari passu. However, this situation is expected to be
            overcame for 2015 with the allocation of the necessary resources to cover
            the local contribution commitments of the Program.

      Accumulated investment statement
          o During 2014, US$8,874,325.98 of the Agreement have been executed,
            6,924,578.54 of which correspond to IBRD contribution and 1,949.747.44
            of local contribution. The accumulated execution is US$.52,417,559.21,



                                         43
              US$37,020,261.25 correspond to the IBRD and US$15,397,297.96 to
              local contribution.

      Budget Execution
         o The PMES received from the Ministry of Economy and Finances a budget
             allocation for 2014 of B/.3,325,000. Due to the budget insufficiency to
             make the payments product of the commitments for the Project execution,
             the Ministry of Health requested the MEF an extraordinary credit to
             comply with these commitments. During June 2014, the MEF granted
             transfer of items and extraordinary credits necessary to execute the
             external contribution of the Project and substantially attain facing the local
             contribution commitments. The final budget was approved for the amount
             of B/.11.52.460. To date, 100% of the granted amount has been
             compromised, including the extraordinary credits of both financing
             sources.

Lessons Learned
    Constant and close follow-up and monitoring is required with service providers
      and managers to comply faithfully with the quality rules and standards, as well as
      the observance of delivery times of accountability reports, which are the trigger
      for the disbursement and payment flows.
    That it is necessary to comply exactly with timing in order to have audited
      information (ATE) with added value so that it provides us in due time with key
      elements to take decisions.
    Continuous technical assistance to administrative staff of health regions in order
      to guarantee integration.
    The number of reports subject to assessment exceeded the review capacity of the
      hired consultants, whereby additional technical staff has to be hired in order to
      conclude the assessments in due time.
    As a limited number of monitoring and supervision activities was carried out,
      service providers performed many times incorrect processes or not within the
      provisions set forth in the Operating Regulations.

Critical Issues
        Decentralized payment process in Health Regions, which doubles the effective
           payment time of commitments to providers.
        Lack of integration in the regional administrative structure for managing the
           Strategy fund.
        The project assumed the hiring of national consultants to carry out the
           monitoring, supervision and assessment functions of health service provision
           in the project. Since there were 47 population groups, each of which generated
           an initial report, a situation diagnosis, twelve monthly reports, six round
           reports, three four-monthly reports and an annual report, generating a total of
           24 reports subject to assessment for each group, the load of activities of each
           consultant was focused almost exclusively on assessment duties. This resulted
           in weaknesses in the monitoring and supervision processes, since said



                                           44
          activities took second place when there were pending assessments because the
          beginning of the payment process to service providers depended directly on
          the assessment delivery date.

Recommendations

Improvement opportunities:

         Optimization of the registration IT system.
         Improve the payment process according to the reality of the rules of the
          country and fully aware of the processes in order to avoid delays in the
          payment of suppliers and others.
         Reframing of requested indicators and goals, not only on a quantitative basis
          but also in the creation thereof.
         Use good practices of Health Regions through meetings and training among
          players who are part of the program management.
         Standardize penalty days in findings of assessments and supervisions.
         The assessment process involves many manual steps, which delays the flow of
          activities during the assessment. The information system used should be
          capable of issuing an assessment automatically. This activity may be
          developed by a less technical staff, thus allowing consultants to visit
          constantly the population groups assigned under their responsibility.
         Review ATE and Social Audit processes and the Operating Regulations and
          adapt them in order to improve current processes.




                                         45
                                                     Annex

                  DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION GROUPS ASSIGNED TO PSPV – PMES
                     2009-2010                       2011-2012                              2013-2014
 HEALTH               GI           OE                 GI           OE                GI         TESTING     OE
            TOTAL                          TOTAL                          TOTAL
 REGION             GROUPS       GROUPS             GROUPS       GROUPS            GROUPS       GROUPS    GROUPS
  TOTAL      47         47          0        47        21          26       163        21          116      26
BOCAS DEL
              5         5           0         5         5          0        14         5            9       0
   TORO
 CHIRIQUÍ     7         7           0         7         0          7        38         0            31      7
 COCLÉ        6         6           0         6         2          4        20         2            14      4
 COLÓN        4         4           0         4         0          4        11         0            7       4
 DARIÉN       4         4           0         4         4          0        11         4            7       0
 HERRERA      2         2           0         2         2          0        10         2            8       0
    LOS
              2         2           0         2         2          0        12         2            10      0
  SANTOS
 PANAMÁ
              2         2           0         2         2          0         6         2            4       0
   ESTE
 PANAMÁ
              6         6           0         6         2          4        15         2            9       4
   OESTE
VERAGUAS      9         9           0         9         2          7        26         2            17      7

            MINSA, in the last semester when the service was provided (January - June 2014) by
            PSPV, maintained 163 population groups, 47 of which were trained with 5 Extra-
            institutional service providers and 8 Health Regions involved. This structure changed due
            to the fact the MINSA implemented a strategy to provide the service Portfolio with the
            same nominalization model in 116 sample population groups, i.e., not trained, in every
            Health Region. The table below shows the evolution of the group structure under the
            PMES.




                                                       46
            GOALS OF ANNUAL AND FOUR-MONTHLY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - PERIOD 2013-2014

                                                                                                Annual and Four-
No.            Indicator                      Numerator                  Denominator                                   Source
                                                                                                 monthly Goal
                                      Number of pregnant women
                                                                    Total of pregnant women
        Percentage of pregnant         who, at the end of the 3rd
                                                                         assessed in the
      women who, at the end of         pregnancy quarter, have
                                                                     beneficiary population                         HCPB Sheet
      the 3rd pregnancy quarter,         performed 3 prenatal
1                                                                    who, in the four-month          100%          Prenatal control
       have completed at least 3        controls (at least 1 each
                                                                    period, have reached the                            card
      prenatal controls (at least 1             quarter)
                                                                        end of their third
             each quarter)
                                                                       pregnancy quarter

       Percentage of pregnant                                           Total of expected                           HCPB Sheet
                                         Number of assessed
2      women assessed before                                         pregnant women in the           100%          Prenatal control
                                          pregnant women
       week 20 of pregnancy                                          beneficiary population                             card

        Percentage of pregnant
        women with a second           Number of pregnant women          Total of assessed                           HCPB Sheet
3     doses or shot of TT or TD       with a second doses or shot    pregnant women in the           100%          Prenatal control
       (appropriate vaccination               of TT or TD            beneficiary population                             card
        according to standard)

                                                                    Total of pregnant women
                                                                         assessed in the
                                                                     beneficiary population                         HCPB Sheet
      Percentage of births taken      Number of births taken care
4                                                                    who, in the four-month          100%          Prenatal control
       care of by trained staff          of by trained staff
                                                                    period, have reached the                            card
                                                                        end of their third
                                                                       pregnancy quarter

                                  Number of women of 20
      Percentage of women of 20   years old and more from
                                                              Total of women of 20
       years old or more, from       whom a sample of                                                              Clinical record,
                                                             years old and more in the
5         whom a sample of      cervicovaginal cytology was                                          70%           cytology control
                                                               estimated beneficiary
       cervicovaginal cytology   taken in the twelve month                                                               card
                                                                    population
              was taken           period prior to the end of
                                   the four-month period

                                                                     Total of children of the
       Percentage of children          Number of children under                                                    Clinical record,
                                                                     beneficiary population
      under one year old with 4       one year old with 4 or more                                                    growth and
6                                                                    who have reached one            100%
         or more growth and            growth and development                                                       development
                                                                    year old during the four-
        development controls                    controls                                                            control card
                                                                         month period.
                                        Number of children who
                                                                     Total of children of the
        Percentage of children         have reached one year old
                                                                     beneficiary population
       under one year old with           during the four-month                                                     Clinical record,
7                                                                    who have reached one            100%
        complete vaccination             period with complete                                                      vaccination card
                                                                    year old during the four-
        program for their age           vaccination program for
                                                                          month period
                                               their age




                                                                    47
           GOALS OF ANNUAL AND FOUR-MONTHLY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - PERIOD 2013-2014

                                                                                               Annual and Four-
No.           Indicator                    Numerator                    Denominator                                    Source
                                                                                                monthly Goal

                                     Number of children who
                                    have reached 24, 36, 48 or
        Percentage of children       60 months old during the        Total of children who
      from 1 to 4 years old who        four-month period of         have reached 24, 36, 48                       Clinical record,
       have at least two growth     service provision and who      or 60 months old during                          growth and
8                                                                                                   100%
      and development controls     have two or more registries     the four-month period of                        development
         performed during the       with different dates in the     service provision in the                       control card
        assessed service period      growth and development         beneficiary population
                                   control cards during the last
                                            11 months

                                    Number of children who
        Percentage of children                                      Total of children who
                                   have reached 24, 36, 48 or
      from 1 to 4 years old with                                   have reached 24, 36, 48                        Clinical record,
9                                     60 months old with                                            95%
         complete vaccination                                      or 60 months old in the                        vaccination card
                                     complete vaccination
         program for their age                                     beneficiary population
                                     program for their age

                                                                                                                     Registry and
        Percentage of assessed        Number of assessed             Expected respiratory                          follow-up card,
10     respiratory symptomatic      respiratory symptomatic        symptomatic persons in            1%             clinical record
                persons                      persons                beneficiary population                          and laboratory
                                                                                                                  registration book

        Percentage of assessed
                                  Number of assessed diabetic
      diabetic patients, who have                                                                                 Clinical record,
                                  patients, who have received        Number of assessed
11       received treatment, as                                                                     65%            registry and
                                  treatment, as established by        diabetic patients
        established by MINSA                                                                                      follow-up card
                                       MINSA standards
               standards
      Percentage of patients with Number of assessed patients
       high blood pressure, who     with high blood pressure,        Number of assessed                           Clinical record,
12    have received treatment, as      who have received           patients with high blood         65%            registry and
        established by MINSA      treatment, as established by             pressure                               follow-up card
               standards               MINSA standards




                                                                   48
             RESULTS OF ANNUAL SOCIAL AUDIT MEETINGS
                                                         PERIOD
REGION       POPULATION             2011 - 2012                           2012 - 2013
  OF           GROUP          NOTE            PAYMENT               NOTE            PAYMENT
HEALTH                    (ASSESSMENT)        SITUATION       (ASSESSMENT)          SITUATION
                                                 OF 5%                                 OF 5%
Bocas Del      BT - 1          3,85               60%          Not applied (GI)       Not paid
Toro           BT - 2          4.68              100%          Not applied (GI)       Not paid
               BT - 3          2,90             Not paid       Not applied (GI)       Not paid
               BT - 4          5,00              100%          Not applied (GI)       Not paid
               BT - 5          3.38               60%          Not applied (GI)       Not paid
Coclé          CC - 1           4,4              100%                 4,5              100%
               CC - 2           4,6              100%             4,3 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
               CC - 3           4,7              100%             4,6 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
               CC - 4           4.8              100%                 4.8              100%
               CC - 5           4,6              100%                 4,1              100%
               CC - 6           4,5              100%                 4,3              100%
Colón          CL - 1          4,50              100%                 4,3              100%
               CL - 2          4,50              100%                4,9               100%
               CL - 3          4,74              100%                4,6               100%
               CL - 4          4,62              100%                4,1               100%
Chiriquí       CH - 1          4,72              100%                 4,9              100%
               CH - 2          4,40              100%                4.53              100%
               CH - 3          4.67              100%                4.78              100%
               CH - 4          4.68              100%                4.86              100%
               CH - 5          4.85              100%                4.84              100%
               CH - 6          4.75              100%                4.08              100%
               CH - 7          4.82              100%                 4.9              100%
Darién         DA - 4          3,42               60%             3,5 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
               DA - 5          4.26              100%             4,4 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
               DA - 6          3.29               60%             1,6 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
               DA - 7          3.67               60%             4,6 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
Herrera        HE - 1          4.50              100%             4,3 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
               HE - 2          4.70              100%             4,5 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
Los Santos      LS - 1         4.50              100%          Pending (09/14)        Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
                LS - 2         4.80              100%          Pending (09/14)        Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
Panamá          PE - 2         4.37              100%             3,9 (AP)            Pending
Este                                                                                  (09/14)
                PE - 3          4.3              100%             4,5 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                      (09/14)
Panamá         PO - 1          4.34              100%                 4.3              100%
Oeste          PO - 2          4.42              100%                 4.8              100%
               PO - 3          3.84               60%                 4.5              100%
               PO - 4          3.92               60%                 4.5              100%




                                       49
                                                                         PERIOD
REGION         POPULATION                             2011 - 2012                        2012 - 2013
  OF             GROUP                          NOTE            PAYMENT            NOTE            PAYMENT
HEALTH                                      (ASSESSMENT)        SITUATION     (ASSESSMENT)         SITUATION
                                                                   OF 5%                              OF 5%
                      PO - 5                     4.71              100%          4,5 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                                     (09/14)
                      PO - 6                     4.74              100%          4,7 (AP)            Pending
                                                                                                     (09/14)
Veraguas              VE - 1                     4.83              100%             4.80              100%
                      VE - 2                     4.29              100%             4.65              100%
                      VE - 3                     4.83              100%              4.9              100%
                      VE - 4                     4.77              100%          4,97 (AP)           Pending
                                                                                                     (09/14)
                      VE - 5                     4.95              100%              4.9              100%
                      VE - 6                     4.97              100%             4.98              100%
                      VE - 7                     4.94              100%          4,48 (AP)           Pending
                                                                                                     (09/14)
                      VE - 8                     4.95              100%              5.0              100%
                      VE - 9                     4.94              100%              4.9              100%
       AP - Social Audit applied in central community or care center nearest to the social auditor house (Not applied for payment).
                          GI - Failure to comply with minimum requirement of five comprehensive care visits.




                                                                  50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                 51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



  July 2008. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for a Panama Health Equity and
      Performance Improvement Project (Report N 42866- PA). Washington, DC

  July 2008. Legal Agreement for the Panama Health Equity and Performance
  Improvement Project

  Aide Memoires

  Mid-term Review Report

  Back to Office Reports

  Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)

  Restructuring Papers

  Borrower’s Evaluation Reports

  Project Progress reports as well as key Technical Assistance reports




                                          52
Annex 10. MAP IBRD 33462R
