Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank 
 
 
 
Report No: 26780 HO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT 
 
ON A 
 
PROPOSED CREDIT 
 
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.2 MILLION (US$9.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 
 
TO THE 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
FOR A 
 
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT 
 
May 29, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure 
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and Caribbean Region 
 
 
 
 
Page  2
 
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2, 2003) 
Currency Unit 
= 
Lempiras (Lps.) 
        1 Lempira
= 
US$0.06 
US$1
= Lps.17.20 
 
 
FISCAL YEAR 
July 1, 2002  -- 
June 30, 2003 
 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
AML  
Anti-Money 
Laundering 
BCH 
 
(Banco Central de Honduras) Honduras Central Bank 
BCP  
Banking 
Consolidation 
Program 
BCV 
 
(Bolsa Centroamericana de Valores) Central American Stock Exchange 
CAR 
 
Capital Adequacy Ratio 
CAS 
 
Country Assistance Strategy 
CEPROBAN 
(Centro de Procesamiento Bancario) Bank Processing Center 
CFT 
 
Combating Financing of Terrorism 
CNBS 
(Comision Nacional de Bancos y Seguros) National Commission of Banking and Insurance 
CPSS 
 
Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems 
CSD 
 
Central Securities Depository 
DVP  
Delivery-Versus-Payment 
FIU 
 
Financial Intelligence Unit 
FOGADE 
(Fondo de Garantía de Depósitos) Deposit Guarantee Fund 
FOSEDE 
(Fondo de Seguro de Depósitos) Deposit Insurance Fund 
FSPC 
 
Financial Sector Policy Committee  
FSTAC   
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
FSAC  
 
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit 
GDP 
 
Gross Domestic Product 
FSAP 
 
Financial Sector Assessment Program 
IDA  
International 
Development 
Association 
IDB  
Inter-american 
Development 
Bank 
IMF  
International 
Monetary 
Fund 
LISF 
(Ley de Instituciones del Sistema Financiero) Law of Institutions of the Financial System 
OPD 
 
Operations and Policy Department (WB) 
PHRD 
 
Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund 
PCU 
 
Project Coordination Unit  
ROA  
Return 
on 
Assets 
ROE 
 
Return on Equity 
SML  
Securities 
Market 
Law 
SRA  
Supervisory 
Risk 
Assessment 
 
 
Vice President:   
David de Ferranti 
Country Director:
 
Jane Armitage 
Sector Manager:
 
Fernando Montes-Negret  
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
 
Modibo Camara 
Page  3
 
HONDURAS 
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT 
 
CONTENTS 
 
 
 
   Page
A. Project Development Objective
 
 
     1.  Project development objective 
2
     2.  Key performance indicators 
2
 
 
B.  Strategic Context 
 
 
 
     1.  Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project 
2
     2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy 
3
     3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices 
7
 
C. Project Description Summary 
 
 
 
     1.  Project components 
8
     2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project 
13
     3.  Benefits and target population 
13
     4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements 
13
 
 
D. Project Rationale 
 
 
     1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection 
15
     2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies 
16
     3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design 
16
     4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership 
17
     5.  Value added of Bank support in this project 
17
 
 
E. Summary Project Analysis 
 
 
     1.  Economic 
18
     2.  Financial 
18
     3.  Technical 
18
     4.  Institutional 
18
     5.  Environmental 
20
     6.  Social 
20
     7.  Safeguard Policies 
22
 
 
Page  4
 
F. Sustainability and Risks 
 
 
     1.  Sustainability 
22
     2.  Critical risks 
23
     3.  Possible controversial aspects 
23
 
 
G.  Main Credit Conditions 
 
 
     1.  Effectiveness Condition 
24
     2.  Other 
24
 
 
H.  Readiness for Implementation 
24
 
 
I.  Compliance with Bank Policies 
25
 
 
 
Annexes 
 
Annex 1: 
Project Design Summary 
26
Annex 2: 
Detailed Project Description 
29
Annex 3: 
Estimated Project Costs 
36
Annex 4: 
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary 
37
Annex 5: 
Financial Summary 
38
Annex 6: 
(A) Procurement Arrangements 
 
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements 
39
44
Annex 7: 
Project Processing Schedule  
48
Annex 8: 
Documents in the Project File 
49
Annex 9: 
Statement of Loans and Credits 
50
Annex 10: Country at a Glance 
52
 
 
 
Page  5
 
- 1 -
HONDURAS 
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
Project Appraisal Document 
Latin America and Caribbean Region 
LCSFF 
 
Date:
 
 
May 29, 2003 
 
Team Leader:
  
Modibo Khane Camara 
Sector Manager/Director: 
 
Fernando Montes-Negret, 
Danny M. Leipziger 
Sector(s):
  
Banking (100%) 
Theme(s):  
Other public sector governance 
(P) 
Country Manager/Director:
 
 
Jane Armitage 
 
Project ID:
  
P040177
  
  
Lending Instrument: 
 
Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) 
 
Project Financing Data 
 [  ] Loan          [X] Credit          [  ] Grant          [  ] Guarantee          [  ] Other:  
 
For Loans/Credits/Others:
 
Amount (US$m):
 
9.9 (SDR 7.2 million) 
 
Proposed Terms (IDA): 
Standard Credit 
Grace period (years): 
10 
Years to maturity: 
40 
 
Service charge:
 
0.75% 
Financing Plan (US$m):          Source 
Local 
Foreign 
Total 
BORROWER 0.15 
0.95 
1.10 
IDA 1.32 
8.58 
9.90 
Total: 
1.47 9.53 11.00 
Borrower:
 
 REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
Responsible agency:  
COMISION NACIONAL DE BANCOS Y SEGUROS/BANCO CENTRAL 
HONDURAS 
Comisión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS) 
Address:
  Apartado Postal No. 20074 
Comayaguela, M.D.C Honduras, C.A. 
Contact Person: 
 Dra. Ana Cristina de Pereira 
Tel:
  (504)238-0580                        
Fax:  (504)237-6232
                        
Email:  apereira@cnbs.gov.hn 
 Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m): 
FY 
2003 
2004 
  2005 
2006 
2007 
 
 
 
 
Annual  
0.0 1.89 5.67 1.54 
0.80   
   
Cumulative 
0.0  1.89 7.56 9.10 9.90 
 
   
Project implementation period:
  
 
2003-2007 
Expected effectiveness date:
  
09/30/2003
    
Expected closing date:
  
09/30/2007 
 
OPCS PAD Form: Rev. March, 2000 
Page  6
- 2 - 
A.  Project Development Objective 
 
1.  Project development objective: 
 
(see Annex 1) 
The proposed project will support the development of the institutional capacity of the Comisión 
Naci
onal de Bancos y Seguros
 (CNBS) and the Banco Central de Honduras (BCH) to address 
vulnerabilities of the Honduran financial system. In this context, the project development 
objective is capacity-building for dealing with weaknesses of the banking system, a prerequisite 
for sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. The project would achieve this objective by 
providing technical assistance for: (i) the design and implementation of a banking sector 
consolidation program, (ii) the reform of the payments system, and (iii) the improvement of 
selected aspects of the financial system infrastructure. A financial sector adjustment operation is 
planned in FY04 to complement the proposed technical assistance operation and achieve the 
objectives defined in the Country Assistance Strategy. 
 
2.  Key performance indicators:  
(see Annex 1) 
1. 
Compliance of all systemically important banks with CNBS prudential regulation, 
including capital adequacy norms. 
2. 
Improved risk management by the banking sector and increased cost efficiency (see 
section 2.a ). 
3. 
Reduced legal uncertainty in payments systems and improved risk management.  
4. 
Effective special unit against money laundering within the CNBS leading to increased 
volume and quality of on-site examinations.  
5. 
Increased quality, transparency and timeliness of the information available to CNBS and 
BCH on bank soundness and major corporate clients.  
6. 
Reduced levels of non-performing loans from the top 50 Honduran corporate borrowers. 
7. 
Increased efficiency of corporate restructuring and orderly liquidations, both judicial and 
extra-judicial. 
 
B.  Strategic Context 
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: 
(see Annex 1) 
Document number:
 
20072-HO
 
Date of latest CAS discussion
:
 12/14/1999 
The proposed technical assistance credit is well embedded within IDA's assistance strategy to 
Honduras. On the basis of its importance for economic reactivation, growth  and poverty 
reduction, the strengthening of the Honduran financial system was already singled out as a key 
issue in the last CAS, which was discussed by the World Bank’s Board on December 14, 1999. 
 
The new CAS - being submitted to the Board in parallel to this credit - continues IDA's past 
emphasis on achieving high economic growth to reduce poverty while promoting social 
development. Six priority areas are selected for strategic focus: (i) accelerating equitable and 
sustainable growth to levels consistent with the income poverty reduction targets; (ii) reducing 
rural poverty; (iii) reducing urban poverty; (iv) enhancing investment in human capital; (v) 
strengthening social protection for specific vulnerable groups; and, (vi) ensuring the 
sustainability of the strategy through governance and institutional reforms.  The weakness of the 
Honduran financial system is clearly identified as a potential constraint to the achievement of the 
first objective of accelerating equitable and sustainable economic growth to levels consistent 
Page  7
- 3 - 
with the poverty reduction targets; and this assessment is consistent with the outcome of the 
FSAP diagnostic recently completed.  
 
The proposed project is primarily designed to help reduce the risks of systemic instability in the 
Honduran financial system. A banking sector consolidation program will be designed, coupled 
with selected measures in the corporate sector, to establish a sound and stable foundation for the 
recovery of the Honduran financial sector. A reform of the payments system will also be 
conducted to improve the efficiency of the financial system and facilitate business transactions. 
Finally, technical assistance will be provided to improve selected aspects of the financial sector 
infrastructure  and  enable the early recognition and more efficient handling of future problems 
in the financial sector. It is expected that these measures will be complemented by a financial 
sector adjustment program in FY04, which should help ensure that the appropriate policy 
framework is in place to achieve the goals stated in the new CAS. 
 
 
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy: 
a. Weakness of Domestic Financial Institutions  
 
The Honduran financial sector suffered a severe shock in October 1998, when Hurricane Mitch 
hit the country with devastating effects in terms of human lives and disruption of economic 
activity. In its immediate aftermath, the financial sector was faced with an upsurge in the volume 
of bad debts and substantial financial losses. A mid-sized bank had to be liquidated by the 
Comision Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS) and most financial institutions were forced to 
request new injections of capital from their shareholders to restore their solvency. 
 
Five years after Mitch, the soundness of the Honduran banking sector - which accounts for about 
70% of all financial sector assets – still remains an issue. Non-performing loans persist as a 
source of financial difficulties. The share of non-productive assets in the balance sheet of banks 
has increased and bank profitability has been steadily falling since 1998. Although the liquidity 
situation has been improving, this may also be an indicator of the substantial slowdown in new 
lending and banks' growing difficulties to find risk-adjusted, profitable investment opportunities. 
The difficulties described above are unfortunately not limited to the banking sector. Similar 
problems are also affecting the other groups of financial institutions , i.e. the financieras, the 
savings & loans societies, and the insurance companies. 
 
A key factor behind the persistent weakness of Honduran financial institutions is undoubtedly 
the unfavorable evolution of the macroeconomic environment. The combination of a US 
economic slowdown and the sharp fall in the prices of major commodities, notably coffee, in the 
last two years has taken its toll on economic activity in Honduras. As a result, economic growth 
decelerated from about 4% in 1999 -2000 period to an estimated 2% in 2002, impacting the local 
financial institutions and their clients, especially those in or with large exposure to the 
agricultural sector, and exporters. However, three structural factors are also thought to play an (at 
least) equally important role in the deterioration of the situation in the financial sector: 
 
(i.) 
An excessive number of players competing for a limited market potential:
  There is a 
certain level of fragmentation of the market, as in the banking sector the six largest institutions 
control about 71.2% of the market measured in terms of total assets, and the remaining 
Page  8
- 4 - 
institutions typically have only a limited client base. Accordingly, Honduran banks exhibit the 
highest operational costs ratios in Central America (see table 2). Intermediation spreads also 
remain high in spite of the significant drop of nominal interest rates, both passive and active, 
over the past four years. An exit of the non-viable institutions from the financial market and a 
reduction in the number of institutions would allow the remaining institutions to reach 
economies of scale, improve their cost structure, and possibly restore profitability. 
 
Table 2: Comparative Analysis of  Cost Efficiency in Central American Banking Market 
 
%
Administrative Expenses/ Assets
Average CA
4.7
Costa Rica
5.9
Guatemala
5.0
Nicaragua
4.3
El Salvador
3.0
Panamá
0.9
Honduras
6.4
Medium Banks
7.9
Small Banks
7.0
Foreign Banks
5.9
Big Banks
5.7
Source: Banco Central de Nicaragua, CNBS Honduras 2002
Central America
Honduras
 
 
 
(ii.) 
Weak legal / regulatory framework:
 This is discussed at great length in the next 
section. At this stage, it should only be noted that an effective system of early warning indicators 
and an adequate resolution framework for troubled banks would have helped prevent weak 
institutions to accumulate more losses and thereby substantially increase fiscal contingencies. 
 
(iii.) 
Weak risk management practices:
 Honduran banks lack business diversification, which 
is probably due to the limited size of the market. All banks display high levels of concentration 
in their loan portfolio and a number of institutions also have a substantial risk exposure to single 
sectors, for instance agriculture, without using adequate instruments to hedge the risks inherent 
in these activities such as weather and/or catastrophe insurance policies, or commodity risk 
hedging. Sophisticated risk management tools to assess liquidity risks, credit risk, interest rate 
and foreign exchange risk are underdeveloped. 
 
b. Inadequate Framework for Financial Sector Supervision and Regulation  
 
A recent analysis of banking supervision in Honduras revealed that compliance with the Basel 
Core Principles is relatively limited. The quality of the information produced based on on-site 
inspections and off-site analysis was also found to be in need of improvement. With respect to 
prudential regulation, the following areas were identified as those in most urgent need of 
improvement: (i) consolidated supervision, (ii) capital adequacy, (iii) loan classification and 
provisioning, (iv) corporate governance and risk management, and (v) framework for prompt 
corrective action. The introduction of consolidated supervision would especially allow the CNBS 
Page  9
- 5 - 
to gain a more comprehensive view of the state of the financial system, and ensure a more 
satisfactory application of prudential norms and regulations.  
 
Similarly, the legal and institutional framework for dealing with problem banks and bank 
resolution requires upgrading. Strengthening CNBS will ensure the timely/early identification of 
potential problem banks, while prompt corrective actions can become more effective. The 
timeliness of the emergency assistance under the "lender of last resort" can improve, while the 
deposit insurance system, which currently provides a blanket guarantee for all deposits in the 
system, necessitates alterations as well. As it stands, this blanked guarantee undermines market 
discipline and generates welfare losses for the economy. 
 
In summary, the Honduran authorities can improve their capacity to (i) assess the level of risk in 
the financial system, and/or (ii) enforce existing prudential norms and regulations.  
 
c. Structural Weaknesses in the Corporate Sector  
 
The Honduran financial sector has been strongly impacted by the evolution in the corporate 
sector. Evidence up to 1999 suggested that Honduran companies exhibited very high leverage, 
with debts often reaching several multiples of equity endowment, modest profitability levels and 
decreasing return on equity (ROE). 
 
Unfortunately, more recent information is not available to assess the financial soundness of the 
corporate sector. The credit bureau, launched by the CNBS a few years ago, provides incomplete 
information. Given the current situation of the Honduran financial system, such corporate sector 
information may be of vital importance for prudential oversight and any attempt to restructure 
the banking system. Nevertheless, the volume of non-performing loans held by banks seems to 
suggest that the Honduran corporate sector is weak and many companies are having difficulties 
to service their obligations. Broadly publicized defaults on bond payment obligations have 
already led the two Honduran exchanges to almost entirely dry-up as a source of new financing 
for the corporate sector.  
 
The indebtedness problem also points to an inadequate framework for corporate bankruptcy. The 
availability of regulations concerning dissolution, liquidation, bankruptcy and suspension of 
payments has not prevented insolvent corporations and their creditors from almost never 
engaging in bankruptcy proceedings. This arises due to legislative, institutional and cultural 
factors. There is a widespread perception that said proceedings are very costly, complicated and 
time consuming. Importantly, a sound environment for out-of-court corporate restructuring 
negotiations and agreements (“workouts” and “prepackaged plans”) does not exist at present. 
 
d. Systemic Risks related to Payments System Operation 
 
Two payments systems were identified as systemically important in Honduras: the current banks-
owned electronic check clearing house (CEPROBAN) and the funds transfer "system" associated 
with the accounts of financial institutions and the government at the Central Bank. The yearly 
value settled in the check clearinghouse represents approximately 215% of GDP. The yearly 
value settled in the funds transfer system represents approximately 125% of GDP. 
 
Page  10
- 6 - 
A recent review by the IDA staff identified a number of structural shortcomings leading to an 
inadequate exposure to credit and liquidity risks, legal risks, operational risks, and custody and 
settlement risks for securities transactions. 
 
e. Difficulties in Agricultural Lending 
 
Lending to the agricultural sector has decreased over the past few years, having fallen in nominal 
terms by about 25% since 2000 and with the banana and coffee sectors being the worst hit. In 
comparison, lending has increased in all other sectors except in commerce, where a slight fall of 
about 2% was registered. 
 
 
L e n d in g  G ro w th  b y   S e cto r:  2000-2002
A v erag e
Oth e rs
Co m m
e rc e
Ag ric u ltu re  
(A v e ra g e )
M a nu fa c turin g
    O ther 
Ag ric u ltu re
   C o ffe e
    B a n anas
-50%
-40%
-30%
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
A g ric u ltura l Le n d in g
O th e r  L e nd in g
  
Source: CNBS 
 
 
The shock of Hurricane Mitch and a recent drop in commodity prices resulted in a significant 
part of the non-performing loans of banks belonging to the agricultural sector. Almost all 
refinanced loans are from the agricultural sector. Consequently this resulted in a fall in 
agricultural lending. Interestingly, not all types of agricultural lending have fallen. Loans to some 
sub-sectors, such as fisheries and livestock production, have actually increased (30% and 21% 
respectively from 2000 to 2002). This seems to indicate that Honduran banks are also trying to 
diversify their agricultural portfolio, which in itself is a good development. 
 
Given the social and political importance of the agricultural sector in Honduras, policy makers 
have undertaken several attempts to revive lending to the sector. After the devastation caused by 
Mitch, the Government passed regulations to subsidize affected loans and to allow the banks to 
refinance non-performing loans. Honduran authorities have recently approved another resolution 
to reactivate agricultural lending, but the details of this latest scheme have yet to be published. 
 
Unfortunately, the promotion efforts made by the Government do not seem to have been very 
successful at raising the flow of credit to the agricultural sector. Honduran banks may be 
primarily interested in recovering their losses and may not have much appetite for agricultural 
lending at this time. The impact of the policies may have also been indirectly adverse for the 
Page  11
- 7 - 
banking system. The nature of the government intervention could be fuelling the bad debt 
problem by increasing the level of moral hazard in the system and contributing to a deterioration 
of payment culture among borrowers. Moreover, it is questionable whether commercial banks 
should be given incentives to take on such additional risks, given the very nature of their current 
problems.  
 
f. Government Strategy: 
 
The new administration shares the assessment of IDA about the structural nature of the problems 
faced in the banking system and the need for a consolidation in the industry. The new Honduran 
authorities have demonstrated their willingness to act by intervening some weak institutions. 
Also, the authorities showed their readiness for complete openness with IDA by allowing a 
thorough diagnostic of its financial sector in the context of the joint WB – IMF Financial Sector 
Assessment Program (FSAP). Following these positive developments, IDA has initiated the use 
of PHRD grant resources to provide some critical technical assistance in preparation of the TA 
credit and a possible FSAC in FY04.  The collaboration with the authorities has so far been  very 
satisfactory in this regard. Whereas there is no doubt about the goodwill of the new 
administration to tackle the existing structural problems, its commitment to an uncompromising 
banking sector consolidation program is yet to be tested. In particular, uncertainties remain with 
respect to the administration’s ability to withstand pressure from its main political constituencies 
on the issue of how to reactivate agricultural lending. Similarly, the proposed project will reach 
its critical phase in early 2005, when pre-electoral campaigning starts again in Honduras. It is 
hard to predict at this stage how this will affect the consolidation program. 
 
 
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: 
The proposed project will support the development of the institutional capacity to address the 
systemic vulnerabilities of the financial sector. The focus will be on banking sector consolidation 
and other areas regarded as critical for preventing the worst-case scenario of a major disruption 
of financial sector activity, which could undermine economic and social stability. In this logic, 
the credit will finance technical assistance to address the following issues: 
 
a. Banking System Consolidation 
 
As explained in section B.2.a., the Honduran banking sector accounts for about 70% of the 
financial sector in terms of assets. From the perspective of reducing systemic risks, a first 
priority should therefore be given to addressing the structural shortcomings affecting this 
particular sector and this should be done within the context of a well-thought out banking sector 
consolidation process.  
 
b. Financial Sector Supervision  
 
Given the fact that the IDB has just initiated a comprehensive technical assistance program, the 
proposed project will concentrate on those aspects of bank supervision perceived as being most 
critical for the success of the banking sector consolidation efforts: (i) the need for intense 
supervision of the weakest institutions, and (ii) the need for ongoing monitoring of the level of 
systemic risks in the banking sector. 
Page  12
- 8 - 
 
The proposed project will also address the issue of anti-money laundering and combating the 
financing of terrorism (AML/CFT), which is not covered by the IDB. Honduras has enacted a 
regime to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing that is relatively consistent 
with international standards, but the implementation of the new legal requirements needs 
support. CNBS examiners have recently begun the onsite inspections of banks for AML/CFT 
compliance, but the process is at an early stage and needs to be strengthened. Onsite 
examinations in other financial institutions have not yet begun. 
 
The newly-created financial intelligence unit (FIU), which is part of the CNBS, receives, 
analyzes and disseminates to competent authorities financial information related to money 
laundering. However, its internal organization can be strengthened, alongside existing analytical 
capabilities. Further guidance on what constitutes suspicious transactions activities must also be 
provided to the financial sector, alongside AML/CFT training and the dedication of necessary 
resources. 
 
c. Systemic Risks in Payments System  
 
As indicated in section B.2.d., the Honduran payments system currently shows a substantial level 
of exposure to credit, legal, and operational risks. A comprehensive reform is needed to reduce 
and better manage these risks  in order to prevent the worst-case scenario of a possible disruption 
in the system.  
 
d. Monitoring of Corporate Sector 
 
The initiation of some form of monitoring of the Honduran corporate sector would greatly 
contribute to properly assess, monitor and eventually reduce the level of risk in the banking 
system.  
 
A reform of bankruptcy laws and regulations would facilitate corporate reorganization and 
provide a better protection of creditor rights. Such a reform should also include the initiation of a 
modern and safe registration system of property rights and securities, both for immovable and 
movable assets, as well as a review of the legislation on securities over movable and intangible 
assets. Under the current "book system" the deeds filed for registration take an average of two to 
four months to be recorded, due mainly to the heavy workload and the inefficient system of 
registrar analysis in place. 
 
C.  Project Description Summary 
 
1.  Project components 
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost 
breakdown): 
 
 
Page  13
- 9 - 
     
Component 
Indicative 
Costs 
(US$M) 
 
% of  
Total 
Bank- 
financing
(US$M) 
% of 
Bank- 
financing 
Technical Assistance for Banking Sector Consolidation 
4.66 
42.4 
4.19 
42.3 
Reform of Payment System  
2.34 
21.3 
2.11 
21.3 
Improvement of Financial System Infrastructure 
2.26 
20.5 
2.03 
20.5 
Project Administration 
1.25 
11.4 
1.13 
11.4 
Unallocated Reserve 
0.49 
4.5 
0.44 
4.4 
Total Project Costs
11.00 100.0 
9.90 
100.0 
Total Financing Required
11.00 100.0 
9.90 
100.0 
 
 
 
a. Technical Assistance for Banking Sector Consolidation 
 
The objectives of this component are to (i) establish a conducive framework for an improved 
soundness of the Honduran financial system, (ii) facilitate the market exit of the weakest / non-
viable banks, and (iii) contribute to the institutional strengthening of the CNBS. Given the 
inadequate legal framework and the shortage of crucial resources to Honduran authorities, it was 
agreed to adopt a gradual approach
 for the banking sector consolidation program (BCP) while a 
more conducive environment is being put in place. An incentive package will also be included to 
support the BCP because the low level of profitability at systemic level might discourage bank 
shareholders to invest more equity, especially when the authorities are still in the process of 
strengthening their enforcement capacity. 
 
The process for the elaboration and implementation of the BCP will consist of three distinct 
phases with well-specified milestones preceded by a preliminary stocktaking exercise, as 
indicated below:   
 
Gfi
Preliminary Phase: Basic organization of implementation framework & initial 
stocktaking of existing information 
 
Three prerequisites for the implementation of the credit will be completed during the 
preliminary phase. First, a high level Financial Sector Policy Committee (FSPC) will be formed 
to define the consolidation strategy, ensure political consensus around the strategy and 
coordinate its implementation. However, the FSPC will not take over the functions of the 
CNBS, but will rather act in a consultation capacity, ensuring approval of the overarching 
principles and purpose for the BCP, providing political backing to decisions taken in connection 
by the CNBS. Second, a Task Force Unit will be organized to design and carry out the required 
operational work on behalf of the Commission. This task force will consist of designated 
officials from the CNBS and the BCH, and will be part of the project coordination unit. Third, 
the banks will be classified by risk profile, identifying essential information gaps. The 
satisfactory completion of these tasks will be a condition of effectiveness for the project. 
 
Gfi
Phase I: Short term preparatory actions for initiation of consolidation program 
 
Phase I comprises the short term preparatory actions for the initiation of the consolidation 
program. The FSPC is expected to define and formally adopt the core strategy, purpose and 
Page  14
- 10 - 
principles, for the Banking Consolidation Program.  Technical assistance will be provided to 
support this process, as well as to make the necessary legal amendments, including: (i) 
strengthening the legal framework in crucial areas such as: remedial actions and regularization, 
failed bank resolution, mixed financial-commercial groups, and enforcement; (ii) improving 
prudential norms on asset valuation, capital adequacy, and governance and risk management, 
including a gradual adjustment schedule for the banks towards best international practices; (iii) 
designing and requesting from all banks rehabilitation plans to adapt to the upgraded 
regulations and to assess their viability, supporting as well the institutional capacity of the 
CNBS to validate these plans, in order to identify troubled and unviable banks, and to impose 
precautionary holding actions; and (iv) improving emergency liquidity assistance processes, 
enabling better liquidity monitoring, and improving methods and criteria to summarize the 
supervisory risk assessments (SRA) of banks, to provide for consistent supervisory reaction, 
directing the BCP’s actions in routing banks to predetermined treatment. 
 
After validating the rehabilitation plans, and discussing them with the banks’ boards, the CNBS 
will update its preliminary classification of banks, and adopt decisions on which case-by-case 
treatment will be followed for each institution.  
 
Gfi
Phase II: Medium term consolidation actions 
 
Phase II comprises the medium term actions for initiating the execution of the consolidation 
program, including: (i) the in-depth review of selected banks of adverse SRA, as rated per the 
previous phase, after considering the feasibility of their rehabilitation plans; (ii) the design of 
the processes and vehicle for resolving non-viable banks to implement the new legal framework 
in this regard, (iii) the resolution of troubled institutions on a least cost resolution transactions; 
(iv) the initiation of an ongoing process of risk monitoring at system and individual bank levels; 
and (v) the initiation of a process of intensified supervision processes for high risk banks. 
 
The bank classification from the Preliminary Phase will be updated according to the outcome of 
the ongoing diagnostics and the progress achieved in implementing the rehabilitation plans. In 
addition, a government funded capitalization scheme will be elaborated as an incentive scheme 
to facilitate viable mergers between sound institutions as well as other market-based 
mechanisms of banking sector consolidation.  
 
The incentive package to be designed will also include technical assistance (on a cost-sharing 
basis) for the top five performers, in implementing the previously designed self rehabilitation 
plans, to hire reputable management consulting firms to advise on board, operations, risk 
management, and information and control systems.  
 
fi
fi
Gfi
Phase III: Long term consolidation actions 
 
At the end of this phase, the BCP is expected to have significantly contributed to the 
institutional strengthening of the CNBS, alongside the enforcement of new prudential regulation 
to ensure adherence to "best practice standards". To avoid over-stretching the limited resources 
of the CNBS, it is designed to build upon the technical assistance program provided by the IDB. 
Page  15
- 11 - 
The topics covered by this program are consolidated supervision,  the reform of the credit 
bureau, capacity-building in on-site supervision through a series of assisted inspections, the 
strengthening of accounting and auditing standards as well as the redefinition of the role of 
external auditors in the supervision process. The assistance to be provided under the BCP 
should help expand the supervision focus from compliance inspections towards a more pro-
active and risk based supervisory approach. Furthermore, events will be organized on a periodic 
basis to disseminate best practices for the banking sector in selected areas such as corporate 
governance and risk management (including dealing with the exposure to natural disaster risks 
and environmental risks). 
 
b.  Reform of the Payments System  
 
Under this component, the project will carry-out an upgrade of the current systems, including the 
launching of a special purpose large value payments system that will allow for the separation of 
large and low value payments and the establishment of a securities depository function.
 
If the 
electronic clearinghouse becomes a low value payments system, more attention and dedicated 
resources could be devoted to improving payments system efficiency by developing other 
payments instruments such as direct debits and electronic transfers. Further, a depository 
function for securities settlement will be established to help mitigate risks and provide the 
necessary facility for the development of a collateralized interbank money market and the 
provision of liquidity by the Central Bank. The reform initiative will be accompanied by 
additional elements that will help set up an adequate legal, regulatory, and oversight 
environment. 
 
c. Improvement of Financial System Infrastructure 
 
The suggested component will focus on three aspects of the financial system infrastructure: (i) 
the institutional framework for Anti Money Laundering activities & Combating Financing of 
Terrorism (AML/CFT), (ii) the oversight of the corporate sector and effectiveness of insolvency 
proceedings, and (iii) the policy instruments used to facilitate access to finance by small 
agricultural producers. 
 
With respect to AMF/CFT activities, advisory assistance will be provided under the project to 
the Honduran Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) to strengthen its organizational structure and its 
analytical capabilities. It is also planned to build capacity within the FIU for on-site 
examinations for AML/CFT purposes. This will require training and support from similar 
institutions in other countries, which could take place through visits, staff exchanges and 
seminars. A limited number of computers and specialized software will be provided to ensure 
that the FIU has appropriate tools to carry-out its function. Further, the project will also fund 
capacity-building activities to raise more awareness on AML/CFT issues. Training will be 
provided for the financial community (i.e., employees, compliance officers, internal auditors and 
senior management from banks, insurance companies, money remitters, exchange houses, and 
other non-bank financial institutions), financial regulators, the FIU,
 
prosecutors and judges. A 
pilot program will be designed with the Honduran Bankers Association (AHIBA), and some 
limited assistance could be provided for the purchase of licenses for specialized software. 
Training for prosecutors and judges could possibly be supplemented with consultations with 
prosecutors and judges from foreign countries. 
Page  16
- 12 - 
 
With respect to corporate sector issues, activities will be initiated under this component to ensure 
that (i) a certain level of monitoring of major systemic risks emanating from the corporate sector 
is established, and (ii) areas related to property rights and security interests regulation and 
registration, as well as judicial and non-judicial mechanisms for corporate insolvency, are 
governed by a modern and workable legal framework and implemented through sound 
institutions. First, a unit will be constituted at the BCH to establish a system of ongoing analysis 
and monitoring of the structure, soundness and evolution of the Honduran corporate sector, as 
well as its ties with local financial institutions. Second, advisory assistance will be provided to 
review the current legal framework for (i) judicial and extra-judicial insolvency proceedings and 
corporate reorganization and liquidation to reflect internationally recognized best practices; and 
(ii) secured transactions on all kind of tangible and intangible assets. The project will provide 
advisory assistance to facilitate consultations between the various stakeholders, design the 
reform strategy, draft new laws and regulations and help with initiating the implementation of 
the new framework. Third, technical assistance will be provided to design a safe, efficient, 
modern and cost-effective registration method for property rights, licensing of rights and secured 
interests, on movable, immovable and intangible assets. The consultancy will also be expected to 
elaborate on the technical requirements (hardware and software) for suggested concept and 
implementation costs.   
 
Finally, advisory assistance will be provided to (i) review the current instruments used by the 
government of Honduras to facilitate and reactivate lending to small agricultural producers, and 
(ii) identify possible options for improvement based on international best practices.  The 
analytical work conducted during the project preparation will also be taken into account in the 
context of the initial assessment to be done.  Once the government takes a decision regarding 
their reform strategy based on the recommendations made, experts will be hired to help prepare 
the implementation of this strategy.   
 
d. Project Administration  
 
Under this component, the project will finance the salaries of project staff, operational expenses 
(including audits, local transportation and travel, etc.), training and limited equipment. This 
should ensure an efficient implementation and adequate monitoring of the different project 
components, as well as compliance with the IDA financial management and procurement 
guidelines. The project staff mentioned above include the project coordinator (1 person), a 
procurement specialist (1 person) , a financial management specialist (1 person), the members of 
the task force (at least 4 persons) provided by the CNBS and the BCH to implement the banking 
sector consolidation program, and one administrative assistant (1 person) provided by the CNBS.  
Some limited equipment will also be provided. 
 
e. Unallocated reserve  
An unallocated reserve of about 4.5% of the total project costs (US$ 0.49 million equivalent) has 
been set to allow for a limited level of flexibility in project implementation. Experience clearly 
shows that the issues addressed by the project tend to have their own dynamics and such an 
unallocated reserve would serve as a risk management tool against unexpected funding 
requirements during the life of the project. The largest share of these funds is likely to be used 
for additional consultancy services. 
Page  17
- 13 - 
 
 
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project: 
The proposed technical assistance credit will support the implementation of a financial sector 
reform program in Honduras, which involves: (i) a program of bank regularization that would 
help strengthen and recapitalize  weak but viable institutions, promote the consolidation of the 
system through market-based mechanism such as mergers and acquisitions; (ii) a reform of the 
payments system to reduce risk and increase efficiency; and (iii) improvements to the overall 
financial system infrastructure. In this respect, the credit is expected to contribute to improve the 
effectiveness of the institutions responsible for the regulation and supervision of Honduras’ 
financial sector, providing training to their staff, upgrading their IT infrastructure, and providing 
them with some of the technical tools needed to fulfill their goals. Recognizing that Honduras is 
vulnerable to money laundering activities, given the openness of its financial system and the 
large number of unregulated financial institutions operating in the country, the credit will also 
finance technical assistance to strengthen the institutions in charge of the prevention of money 
laundering, including the acquisition of specialized equipment and staff training. Since the 
situation in the banking sector is often just a “mirror image” of the state of the corporate sector, a 
system will be put in place to improve the information available to policy makers on 
systemically important Honduran corporations and develop a more conducive legal framework 
for corporate restructuring. Finally, this credit aims at strengthening (i) market discipline and 
corporate governance in the financial sector, (ii) the overall legal framework for debt collection 
and recovery, and (iii) the accounting rules and disclosure practices by bringing them into 
compliance with best international practices. All these reforms are expected to lay the ground for 
a possible IDA-supported financial sector adjustment operation in the near future, which would 
contribute to the sound and efficient development of the Honduran financial system, and improve 
access for the poor.  
 
 
3.  Benefits and target population:  
The proposed TA credit would assist the Honduran authorities to implement a very ambitious 
program of legal, regulatory and institutional reforms aimed at strengthening the financial 
system. A sound financial system will also offer better savings, investment, and credit 
instruments to a larger segment of the population under competitive conditions; and, in the 
longer run, contribute to maintain macroeconomic stability and foster economic development. 
Ultimately, the proposed credit would benefit all users of financial services in Honduras, 
including depositors, creditors, investors, firms and households. 
 
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements: 
The government agencies beneficiaries of this credit would be the CNBS and the Central Bank 
of Honduras (BCH). The implementation arrangements are visualized  in the diagram below 
and described at greater length in section E.4.    
 
Page  18
- 14 - 
Project 
Beneficiaries
Steering
Committee
Implementation Unit
Project Beneficiaries
Banco Central 
de Honduras
Comisión Nacional 
de Bancos y Seguros
Depositors in
Financial System
BCH
CNBS
Financial Sector 
Policy Committee
Fin.& Monetary 
Committee 
of Parliament (?)
Ministry of 
Finance
Procurement 
Officer
Financial 
Management 
Specialist
Project Implementation Unit at CNBS
Task Force
Project Coordinator
Payments System
& Corporate Sector
Teams at BCH
Government
Ministry of Finance
Top-Performing 
Commercial Banks
Project 
Beneficiaries
Steering
Committee
Implementation Unit
Project Beneficiaries
Banco Central 
de Honduras
Comisión Nacional 
de Bancos y Seguros
Depositors in
Financial System
BCH
CNBS
Financial Sector 
Policy Committee
Fin.& Monetary 
Committee 
of Parliament (?)
Ministry of 
Finance
Procurement 
Officer
Financial 
Management 
Specialist
Project Implementation Unit at CNBS
Task Force
Project Coordinator
Payments System
& Corporate Sector
Teams at BCH
Government
Ministry of Finance
Top-Performing 
Commercial Banks
 
 
Page  19
- 15 - 
D.  Project Rationale 
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: 
Several alternatives were considered.  They included: (i) the simultaneous execution of an 
adjustment and a technical assistance operation, (ii) a stand-alone adjustment operation; (iii) a 
technical assistance program with the immediate enforcement of all components of bank 
restrucuturing, and (iv) a technical assistance operation with a full-fledged corporate 
restructuring program. 
 
The simultaneous execution of an adjustment and a TA operation is precluded by the 
Government's need to organize its institutional framework for banking sector consolidation. In 
addition, discussions on an IMF program are still ongoing and IDA cannot process a financial 
sector adjustment operation until they are successfully completed. By preceding the adjustment 
operation with a technical assistance credit, IDA will have the opportunity to get a confirmation 
of the government’s resolve to address the issues in the financial sector prior to committing more 
resources.  
 
A stand-alone adjustment operation was dismissed due to the lack of implementation capacity, 
which will be addressed by the proposed FSTAC. Another reason is the lack of an IMF program. 
 
It is highly questionable whether a "big bang" approach to banking sector consolidation could be 
implemented given the existing constraints in terms of resources, skills and people that are 
needed for such a major restructuring task.   
 
A full-fledged program of corporate diagnostics and restructuring measures was not included in 
the program because of the priority granted to address the short term risks in the banking sector, 
and the lack of skills and resources in Honduras to carry-out such a program at this stage. 
Moreover, there is a lack of a counterpart with legal authority (and the required political 
influence) to (i) request and process comprehensive diagnostics like in the banking sector, and 
(ii) organize larger-scale corporate restructuring. The creation of an official entity with legal 
authority to promote sound practices in the Honduran corporate sector and facilitate corporate 
reorganizations is crucially needed however, and it should be included in any future IDA-
supported adjustment operation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  20
- 16 - 
2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, 
ongoing and planned). 
 
Sector Issue 
 
Project  
Latest Supervision 
(PSR) Ratings 
(Bank-financed projects only) 
 
Bank-financed 
 
Implementation 
Progress (IP) 
Development 
Objective (DO) 
Sector Analysis 
Financial Sector Assessment 
Program (FSAP) 
  
Supervision and Regulations 
PHRD Grant US$0.695m 
 
 
Financial Sector Reform 
Guatemala - Financial Sector 
Technical Assistance Loan, 
US$5.0m 
S S 
 
Ecuador Financial Sector 
Technical Assistance Loan, 
US$10 million 
U S 
  
 
 
Other development agencies 
 
 
 
Financial Sector Strengthening 
IDB, US$2.4m 
 
 
CNBS Institutional Strengthening 
IDB, US$0.17m 
 
 
Possible Stand-by Program (FY 04) 
IMF 
 
 
Technical Assistance to reform 
specific aspects of legal & regulatory 
framework as well as Lender of Last 
Resort function 
IMF  
 
IP/DO Ratings:  HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory) 
 
 
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: 
Recent banking crises in other Latin American countries have been extremely costly. Their fiscal 
cost alone has represented on average 20-30% of a country's GDP, reducing future social 
spending and adding an enormous burden to public finances. Banking crises have caused major 
social setbacks, in particular because the real value of savings and investments declines rapidly 
during a crisis. Experience shows that financial authorities have frequently failed to prevent a 
crisis for several reasons, including a poor diagnosis of bank problems and existing losses, lack 
of a comprehensive strategy to deal with a crisis, weak implementation capacity, unwillingness 
to dismantle vested interests, inadequate legal and regulatory framework, among others. 
 
The FSTAC has been designed taking these lessons into consideration to avoid this worst-case 
scenario. It focuses on capacity-building to ensure that Honduran authorities can implement the 
BCP and the new legal and regulatory framework to be created. Second, its sequential approach 
shows a certain level of pragmatism to ensure political consensus and broad support for the 
government’s program. Finally, the operation is based on a comprehensive diagnosis of the 
problems and vulnerabilities of the Honduran financial sector carried out jointly by the IMF and 
the IDA very recently. It was formulated in order to maximize transparency in the use of public 
funds to support bank restructuring, minimize moral hazard problems by providing support only 
to the best-performers with their rehabilitation plan, forcing private shareholders to inject capital 
into their banks, speed up the resolution of assets, foster an orderly repayment of deposits, and 
solve the problems as rapidly as possible. 
Page  21
- 17 - 
 
IDA experience with TA credits involving more than one beneficiary agency also shows the need 
for implementation arrangements that ensure the effective coordination of these agencies.  To 
ensure effective coordination between BCH and the CNBS, the two beneficiary agencies of the 
FSTAC, it has been agreed that the PCU will operate under the oversight of an executive 
committee composed of high level representatives of both agencies.  Moreover, the PCU will be 
working with the technical teams of the two agencies for the preparation of terms of reference, 
the selection of consultants, and the specifications for the acquisition of equipment and software. 
 
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:  
The government of Honduras is strongly committed to carry out the financial sector reforms 
envisioned by this technical assistance operation. Senior government officials from Honduras 
have requested IDA to present the proposed project to the Board at the earliest possible date to 
help them in the drafting and implementation of the new laws, and to support its program of 
banking sector consolidation. The authorities have shown their commitment through full 
cooperation in the fast-paced preparation process for this FSTAC as well as for the FSAP. 
 
There is clear recognition on the part of the Government that external financial and advisory 
assistance is required to implement the financial sector reform program.  The authorities of BCH 
and the CNBS have contributed actively to the preparation of the project, providing inputs at all 
stages of the process.  
 
Yet, some uncertainties remain with respect to the administration’s ability to withstand pressure 
from its main political constituencies on the issue of how to reactivate agricultural lending. 
Similarly, the proposed project will be in a critical phase in early 2005, when pre-electoral 
campaigning starts again in Honduras. It is hard to predict at this stage how this will affect the 
BCP. 
 
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project:  
The value added of IDA support for this project comes from IDA's international experience in 
the design of financial sector reforms and assistance strategies.  IDA has already provided 
valuable assistance to the CNBS with a PHRD grant.  Further IDA assistance through this 
FSTAC would contribute to the effective implementation of the new legal and regulatory 
framework and the establishment of a mechanism to handle the recapitalization and resolution of 
weak banks.  Also, IDA support for Honduras’ financial sector reforms is likely to strengthen 
international confidence in the Government's capability to manage the current difficulties in the 
financial system and implement effective anti-money laundering regulations. 
Page  22
- 18 - 
E.  Summary Project Analysis 
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8) 
1.  Economic (see Annex 4): 
 
c
     Cost benefit 
 
c
     Cost effectiveness 
 
b
     Other (specify) 
NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
 
 
Given the character of this operation, a quantitative economic and financial analysis would not 
be the appropriate tool to assess the significance of this project. The pace and depth of the 
reforms envisioned in this operation will determine the ultimate economic benefits of this 
credit.  
 
In the course of project implementation, the credit will help the Honduran authorities to better 
assess the true dimension of existing non-performing loans and other issues in Honduras' 
financial system. If the project is carried out successfully, this project will contribute to restore 
the soundness of the financial system. A sound financial system would help to provide financial 
services to an increasing segment of households and enterprises in Honduras, resulting in higher 
economic growth and welfare in the medium and long terms. 
  
2.  Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5): 
  
   
NPV=US$
  
million; FRR =
 
 %  (see Annex 4)   
Same as above 
  
Fiscal Impact: 
 
 
3.  Technical: 
The technical merits of the project components have been reviewed by IDA, IDB and IMF staff 
and are considered to be sound. Technical assessment will continue throughout project 
preparation and implementation. 
 
 
4.  Institutional: 
The borrower of the proposed credit will be the Republic of Honduras through the Ministry of 
Finance, and the implementing agencies will be the CNBS and the BCH. 
 
4.1  Executing agencies: 
The executing agencies of this credit are the CNBS and the BCH. A  Project Coordination Unit 
(PCU) will be created at the CNBS to manage the credit. The Head of the PCU will work under 
the supervision of the president of the CNBS, but will also report to the Financial Sector Policy 
Committee (FSPC) to be constituted shortly, which will act as steering committee (i.e., 
decision-making entity) for the project.  The structure of this steering is still being finalized, but 
it will include representatives of the Ministry of Finance, CNBS, BCH and possibly the 
Financial and Monetary Committee of Parliament. 
 
4.2  Project management: 
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established at the Comisión Nacional de Bancos y 
Seguros (CNBS) to manage the implementation process. The PCU will report to the President 
of the CNBS and soon to be constituted Financial Sector Policy Committee (FSPC), which will 
Page  23
- 19 - 
act as the steering committee (i.e., decision-making entity) for the project. The Task Force 
created to implement the decisions of the FSPC will also be part of the PCU and the project 
coordinator will be the Head of this Task Force. Although the BCH will execute the payment 
system component and the corporate sector related sub-component,  the procurement and 
financial management function will be centralized in the CNBS.  
 
4.3  Procurement issues: 
A Procurement Capacity Assessment was carried out at the CNBS to assess its ability to carry-
out procurement under IDA guidelines. Considering the volume and complexity of the 
procurement actions to be taken during project execution, it was recommended that a Honduran 
procurement specialist with specific experience in IDA procurement rules and procedures be 
hired. Terms of reference have been given to CNBS. The appointment of the PCU coordinator, 
the procurement specialist and all the key posts in the PCU will be subject to IDA’s prior 
approval. The procurement and disbursements arrangements are found in Annex 6. A summary 
of the actions to be completed in order to comply with IDA requirements is indicated below:  
 
Recommendation 
Responsible 
Date for Compliance 
Establish CNBS autonomy in relation to 
contracting decision making 
CNBS Appraisal 
Finalize the Procurement Plan 
PCU 
Negotiations 
Prepare the Project Operations Manual 
PCU 
Effectiveness 
Hire a national procurement specialist 
CNBS 
Effectiveness 
Training in Procurement 
CNBS 
Continuous 
Prepare Standard Bidding Documents 
PCU 
Effectiveness  
Define a secure area for record keeping  
PCU 
Effectiveness 
 
 
The capacity assessment was approved by the Office of the Regional Procurement Advisor on 
May 14, 2003. 
 
4.4  Financial management issues: 
 
The PCU will be responsible for the project financial management arrangements including the 
flow of funds management for the entire project. Assistance is being provided to the PCU by 
IDA to address some of the weaknesses that were identified during the financial assessment of 
the Project and to ensure that sufficient capacity exists within the PCU to prepare the project 
financial monitoring reports (FMRs) by the Credit effectiveness. Consequently, the PCU, with 
successful implementation of the action plan, is expected to have in place, prior to Credit 
effectiveness, the institutional capacity required to carry out the financial management 
requirements of the project. The PCU will be under the direction of a Project Coordinator who 
will report to the President of the CNBS. Reporting directly to the Project Coordinator (PC) will 
be a Procurement Officer, a Financial Management Officer, and the Task Force members in 
charge of implementing the BCP. The project implementation teams for the payment system 
and corporate sector components will report primarily to the management of the BCH, but their 
work will be supervised by the PCU at the CNBS. 
 
Page  24
- 20 - 
The PCU will establish and maintain a project Special Account (SA) to be opened at the Central 
Bank of Honduras. The PCU will also establish a project account to which the Borrower's 
counterpart funds will be deposited.
 
Disbursements under the IDA Credit will be transactions 
based. The PCU will undertake monthly reconciliations of the balances in the special account 
and project account, as well as the project expenditures, the Borrower's contribution and IDA's 
disbursements. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be used for monitoring purposes only 
and not for disbursements. These FMR projections will themselves be based on the annual 
operational plans agreed with BCH and CNBS under the project. The PCU will then make 
payments to consultants and contractors on behalf of BCH and CNBS, based on documentation 
provided by them. Both the BCH and the CNBS will provide the PCU with the necessary 
documentation in a format compatible with PCU’s chart of accounts and financial reporting 
framework, to enable the PCU to prepare the project FMRs. There will be only one special 
account and all project financial information will be maintained by the PCU to facilitate the 
auditing of the accounts and financial statements for the entire project from a single location. 
The audit opinion and periodicity would be in accordance with the new audit policy. 
 
The following are the conditions of effectiveness specifically relating to the financial 
management of the project: (i) implementation of a Financial Management System; (ii) 
finalization of a project operation manual detailing financial procedures; and (iii) the 
appointment of an external auditing firm on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to IDA.   
 
 
5.  Environmental:
  
 
Environmental Category: C (Not Required) 
5.1  Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including 
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis. 
 
N/A. 
 
5.2  What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate? 
 
N/A 
 
5.3  For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA: 
Date of receipt of final draft:
 
 
     
       
 
 
5.4  How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA 
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?  Describe 
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted? 
   
N/A 
 
5.5  What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the 
environment?  Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP? 
 
N/A 
 
6.  Social: 
Page  25
- 21 - 
6.1  Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social 
development outcomes. 
 
The measures to be supported by this operation would have important social implications, as 
they would reduce the probability of the worst-case scenario of a financial crisis in Honduras, 
such as those suffered by other developing countries in the last decade.  Just a small reduction 
of the risks in the banking system would have a significant social impact in terms of reducing 
the potential negative effects on poverty that a banking crisis would produce, as evidenced by 
the negative effects of banking crises on poverty levels in other countries.  A banking system 
less vulnerable to crisis is better able to sustain growth and, therefore, reduce poverty.  Also, 
technical assistance will be provided to selected banks to diversify their business structure and 
improve their risk management. It is expected that this would ultimately help improve the 
access to financial services of currently marginalized segments of the population such as small 
and medium entrepreneurs. Greater access to credit by small and medium enterprises would in 
turn create more job opportunities, an important objective in a country with high rates of under-
employment, one of the lowest per capita incomes in the region, and widespread poverty.  
 
6.2  Participatory Approach:  How are key stakeholders participating in the project? 
 
Strategic decisions regarding the project will be made by the members of the Financial Sector 
Policy Committee, representing BCH, CNBS, Ministry of Finance and the Financial & 
Monetary Committee of Parliament. Due to confidentiality issues, broad participation of civil 
society is not considered.  
 
6.3  How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society 
organizations? 
 
An involvement of civil society will be sought on specific activities such as in the context of the 
elaboration of a reform proposal for property registries. 
 
6.4  What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social 
development outcomes? 
 
N/A 
 
6.5  How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes? 
 
N/A 
 
Does this project include any Community-Driven Development component?
 
( hidden when printed)    
No
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  26
- 22 - 
 
 
7.  Safeguard Policies: 
7.1  Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project? 
 
Policy 
Triggered 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50) 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)* 
c
 Yes   
b
 
No 
 
 
7.2  Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies. 
N/A. 
 
 
F.  Sustainability and Risks 
 
1.  Sustainability: 
Past attempts by Honduran authorities to address the difficulties in the domestic financial system 
have clearly not yielded the expected results. This experience has convinced most of the key 
project stakeholders in Honduras of the need for consolidation in the banking sector. Moreover, 
several members of the current Honduran administration are from the banking sector themselves, 
in terms of professional background, and have a clear understanding of the nature of the 
difficulties faced by the industry. Differences of opinion may still remain as to the required scope 
for such a consolidation program, but an agreement in this regard is a prior requirement for the 
FSTAC to become effective. Another factor to take into consideration is the fact that the IMF 
and the IDB are both working with IDA to support the government’s efforts to strengthen the 
Honduran financial sector. Both institutions have been involved in the discussions related to the 
design and scope of the proposed project, and are providing complementary technical assistance 
to address the other issues identified by the FSAP diagnostic. 
 
Page  27
- 23 - 
 
2.  Critical Risks 
(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1): 
Risk 
Risk Rating 
Risk Mitigation Measure 
From Outputs to Objective 
Lack of improvement of 
macroenvironment
 
 
 
Lack of public buy-in to banking sector  
consolidation program  
 
 
External shock triggers run on bank 
deposits 
 
 
S
 
 
 
 
S 
 
 
 
M
 
 
Detailed contingency plan will be prepared to 
handle further deterioration of financial sector 
soundness. Flexible credit design will ensure 
availability of resources to implement 
contingency plan. 
 
Project steering committee will be designed to 
ensure political consensus for Banking 
Consolidation Program. 
See above on contingency planning.
 
From Components to Outputs 
Authorities' commitment to reforms is 
not sustained  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insufficient response of commercial 
banks to incentives offered under BCP  
 
 
Too many institutions found to be weak 
& their intervention affects depositors' 
trust in the BCP and triggers a run on 
existing banks
 
 
H 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S 
 
 
 
H
 
 
Government has shown a high level of 
commitment to advance the agenda for 
financial sector reform.  Nevertheless, this risk 
remains and therefore IDA has sequenced its 
overall support to financial sector reform by 
first testing the ability of the Honduran 
authorities to put in place the required 
institutional capacity for reform with this TA 
credit prior to the preparation of an adjustment 
operation. 
The final design of the incentive component 
will be developed after discussions with 
representatives of the banking sector on the 
Banking Consolidation Program. 
The project will provide qualified advisory 
assistance to the financial sector policy 
committee in the area of communication 
policy. Also, see above on contingency 
planning. 
 
Overall Risk Rating 
H 
IDA will ensure a close supervision of the 
project with well-elaborated project 
implementation reporting and frequent visits 
b
y specialist staff from Headquarters. IDA will  
also coordinate closely with the IDB and the 
IMF to keep the reform agenda prominent in 
the Government's strategy and development 
program.  
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk) 
 
 
3.  Possible Controversial Aspects: 
One possible controversial aspect of the credit could be the proposed incentive package for the 
provision of technical assistance and recapitalization assistance for selected commercial banks in 
order to help them strengthen their institutional capacities and improve their profitability to 
achieve compliance with the new prudential framework being put in place by the CNBS (see 
Page  28
- 24 - 
section C.1.a.). A well-elaborated communication campaign will be needed to ensure that such 
incentives are not misunderstood by the public. To mitigate this risk, the Government of 
Honduras is working on a strategy paper which will be officially adopted as the roadmap for the 
banking sector consolidation program after a broad political consensus is ensured. IDA is already 
providing technical assistance in this process, but the structure of the project steering committee 
(FSPC) should also facilitate the maintenance of this political consensus throughout the life of 
the project. IDA will also be closely involved in the definition of the criteria for eligibility of 
selected banks, which will be clear, transparent and easy to communicate and explain. 
 
 
G.  Main Loan Conditions 
1.  Effectiveness Condition 
The following steps will need to be completed prior to credit effectiveness: 
 
Project Design: 
(i) 
Establishment of Financial Sector Policy Committee (FSPC) 
(ii) 
Project Coordination Unit is fully established and staffed; including the CNBS/BCH Task 
Force to coordinate the implementation of the banking sector consolidation program 
(iii) 
Completion of official CNBS diagnostic and first-cut classification of banking 
system
 
following the criteria satisfactory to IDA 
 
Financial Management: 
(i) 
Implementation of a Financial Management System 
(ii) 
Finalization of a project operation manual detailing financial procedures 
(iii) 
Appointment of an external auditing firm on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to 
IDA 
 
Procurement: 
(i) 
Preparation of project operation manual; including standard bidding documents and 
definition of secure area for record keeping 
(ii) 
Hiring of national procurement specialist (already included in PCU staff) 
(iii) 
Cooperation agreement between CNBS and BCH has been executed 
 
 
2.  Other 
[classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.] 
 
 
 
H. Readiness for Implementation 
       1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the 
start of project implementation. 
 X   1. b) Not applicable. 
      2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of 
project implementation. 
       3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory 
quality. 
      4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): 
Page  29
- 25 - 
 
 
I.  Compliance with Bank Policies 
 X  1.
 
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. 
 
      2.
 
 The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.  The project complies 
with all other applicable Bank policies. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Modibo Khane Camara 
 
Fernando Montes-Negret; Danny 
M. Leipziger 
 Jane 
Armitage 
Team Leader 
 
 Sector 
Manager/Director 
 
 Country 
Manager/Director 
 
 
 
Page  30
- 26 - 
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
\
Hierarchy of Objectives 
Key Performance 
Indicators 
Data Collection Strategy 
 
Critical Assumptions 
Sector-related CAS Goal: 
Accelerate equitable and 
sustainable economic growth 
to levels consistent with the 
poverty reduction targets
 
Sector Indicators: 
Sound macroeconomic 
fundamentals 
 
GDP growth   
 
Capacity to absorb internal 
and external shocks 
 
Sound and efficient financial 
system. 
 
Sector/ country reports: 
Aggregate macroeconomic 
data 
 
Financial data produced by 
CNBS
 
(from Goal to Bank 
Mission) 
Stable political 
environment and strong 
commitment of authorities 
to continue the 
implementation of the 
PRSP  
 
Macroeconomic stability 
not jeopardized by 
catastrophic event (e.g., 
Mitch)
 
Project Development 
Objective: 
Capacity-building to assist 
Honduran authorities to 
address the systemic 
vulnerabilities of the 
financial system  
 
 
Outcome / Impact 
Indicators: 
Compliance by all operating 
banks with capital adequacy 
norms 
 
Increased cost efficiency of 
the Banking Sector 
 
Increased efficiency of 
judicial and extra-judicial 
corporate restructuring  
 
Increased transparency and 
timeliness of information 
available to CNBS and BCH 
on bank soundness and 
corporate clients 
 
Reduced levels of non-
performing loans from top 
50 Honduran corporate 
borrowers  
 
Reduced legal uncertainty in 
payments system & 
improved risk management 
 
Improved effectiveness of 
special unit against money 
laundering at the CNBS  
 
 
Project reports: 
CNBS progress Reviews 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progress review to be 
prepared by new oversight 
unit at BCH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Progress review
 
(from Objective to Goal) 
GDP growth 
 
 
 
Macroeconomic stability 
is not jeopardized by 
catastrophic event
 
 
Page  31
- 27 - 
Output from each 
Component: 
Banking sector consolidation 
to fewer, healthier and more 
efficient institutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modernization of Honduran 
Payments system and 
reduction of existing 
systemic risks 
 
 
 
 
 
Improved financial system 
infrastructure leading to (i)  
effective monitoring system 
for detection of money 
laundering activities; and  
 
 
 
Improved oversight and 
financial soundness of 
corporate sector 
 
Elaborated proposal for 
reform of Government rural 
finance strategy including 
use of innovative 
instruments 
 Adequate implementation 
of the overall project
 
Output Indicators: 
Market exit of all - or at 
least all systemically 
important - banks rated as 
non-viable and insolvent  
 
Enforcement of new 
prudential regulation to 
ensure adherence to "best 
practice standards" 
 
Early recognition of 
institutional failures 
 
Duration & costs of troubled 
banks resolution process 
 
Reduced significance of 
checks as mean of payment 
 
Better integration of existing 
elements of Honduran 
payments system 
 
Adjustment to legal 
framework for payments 
system operation  
 
Technical capacity of anti-
money laundering unit  
 
Increased volume and 
quality of on-site 
examinations  
 
Current financial 
information is available for 
the 20 largest corporate 
borrowers (from a holding 
perspective) 
 
Better consideration of risks 
emanating from corporate 
sector for prudential 
oversight 
Concept paper for reform 
proposal is available
 
Project reports: 
Project progress reports, 
supervision missions and  
reporting, and evaluation 
reports.
 
(from Outputs to 
Objective) 
Sustained confidence in 
success of consolidation 
program 
 
Appropriate legal and 
institutional framework is 
in place for resolution of 
troubled institutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Successful coordination 
of existing payment 
system reform initiatives 
outside of Central Bank 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BCH has authority to 
request financial 
information on corporate 
sector  
Government is committed 
to  
a fundamental reform of 
its rural finance strategy.
 
Page  32
- 28 - 
 
Timely, cost-effective and 
high quality delivery of all 
project outputs.  
Progress monitoring reports 
of the Project 
Implementation Unit  
 
Annual review of 
procurement plans, financial 
audits and project progress 
reports 
The Project Coordination 
Unit has sufficient: (i) 
staff; (ii) technical 
capacity, and (iii) political 
support required to 
manage and supervise all 
components and sub-
components of the 
project. 
Project Components / Sub-
components: 
I. Technical Assistance for 
Banking Sector 
Consolidation  
1) Improvement of Legal 
and Regulatory Framework 
2) Diagnostics & 
Institutional Strengthening 
3) Enhancing Management 
of Systemic Risks 
4) Incentive Package for 
Self-Rehabilitation of Banks 
5) Design of Effective 
Framework for Asset 
Liquidation 
 
 
 II. Reform of Payments 
System  
1) Advisory Assistance for 
formulation of Reform 
Strategy & its 
Implementation 
2) Initiation of New RTG 
System 
3) Reform of Depository 
System 
 
III. Improvement of 
Financial System 
Infrastructure 
1) Strengthening Insitutional 
Framework for AML/CFT 
2) Strengthening Framework 
for Corporate Restructuring 
& Initiation of Public 
Oversight Function 
3) Dissemination of Best 
Practices in Rural Finance  
 
IV. Project Administration
 
Inputs:  (budget for each 
component) 
US$4.66 million 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$2.34 million 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$2.26 million 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$1.25 million
 
Project reports: 
 
Periodic reports from 
implementing agency, BCH 
and CNBS 
 
Project supervision reports 
& Mid-term review
 
(from Components to 
Outputs) 
Government commitment 
to reform is sustained 
 
Sustained confidence in 
success of consolidation 
program 
 
Appropriate legal and 
institutional framework is 
in place for resolution of 
troubled institutions 
 
Adequate incentives are 
provided to commercial 
banks to participate to the 
program 
 
Commitment of CNBS 
leadership to reform is 
sustained  
Commitment of BCH 
leadership to reform is 
sustained  
 
Adequate coordination of 
all existing public and 
private initiatives to 
improve payment system 
 
Required regulatory 
reform package is 
approved by Parliament 
 
 
 
 
 
Adequate support from 
Honduran Authorities
 
 
 
Page  33
- 29 - 
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
By Component: 
 
Project Component 1 - US$
4.66
 million  
Technical Assistance for Banking Sector Consolidation Program (BCP) 
 
The basic conceptual framework of the BCP has been described in section C.1.a. The objective 
of this component is to help implement the program by providing technical assistance in the 
following areas:  
 
(a) 
Improvement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework for Banking:
 Advisory 
assistance will be provided to the Financial Sector Policy Committee (FSPC) to draft essential 
amendments to (i) the financial institutions law, (ii) the law of the deposit insurance fund 
(FOSEDE), (iii) the Central Bank law and the law of the CNBS, (iv) the current prudential norms 
and regulations, and (v) norms and regulations related to bank corporate governance and risk 
management standards. These legal amendments should help create the appropriate environment 
and instruments for a more efficient resolution of troubled banks (including a new resolution 
vehicle), establish the authority of the CNBS and improve its enforcement capabilities, ensure a 
much more effective regulation and supervision of mixed financial-commercial groups, limit the 
risks arising from related parties’ transactions, enforce better practices of corporate governance 
and management, and improve the approach to assessing asset quality, earnings and capital 
adequacy. 
 
(b) 
Rehabilitation Planning and In-depth Diagnostics of Selected Banks:
 This sub-
component has two objectives, which are (i) the design of an effective system for monitoring the 
restructuring efforts of commercial banks and (ii) the identification of non-viable institutions. 
The activities to be undertaken are as follows: 
 
Gfi
First, advisory assistance will be provided to help the CNBS design standardized 
templates and a financial projection model for the 
rehabilitation plans
 to be requested from the 
commercial banks. In these rehabilitation plans, banks will indicate their strategy for achieving 
compliance with the new prudential norms to be issued by the CNBS especially with respect to 
solvency and limits on related party-lending. They will also indicate the underlying assumptions 
for their rehabilitation strategy, as well as provide the business information needed by the CNBS 
to assess their respective plans. Detailed procedures will be worked out at the CNBS for the 
review of these plans, the validation of the underlying assumption on asset valuation and income 
performance, the benchmarking of the implementation performance, as well as for requesting 
revisions and setting conditions for approval. This should help to ensure consistency in the 
viability assessment of the various institutions and the feasibility of their recovery. The 
rehabilitation plans will also be used by the CNBS to validate its preliminary classification of 
banks and design of appropriate regulatory contracts, to ensure that a menu of differentiated 
holding actions is imposed on banks. These holding actions will establish the necessary 
prudential safeguards and a formal documentation of commitments by the incumbent boards of 
the banks, as well as the benchmarks that the boards will need to satisfy to until fully adhering to 
the new regulations and recovering full bank rehabilitated status. 
Page  34
- 30 - 
 
Gfi
Second, 
fully fledged in-depth diagnostics of viability
 will be conducted for selected 
banks subject to conditions such as (i) poor solvency in stock and flow terms, (ii) lesser 
probability of recovery or failure of current owners and directors to reasonably ensure full 
rehabilitation within an acceptable time-frame, (iii) high likelihood to become source of major 
systemic risks, (iv) indications of major governance and management weaknesses or abuse.  
These conditions will be determined on the basis of the preliminary classification, the review of 
rehabilitation plans, and the results of on-going assisted examinations and surveillance. The 
diagnostics will be done on behalf of the Commission following comprehensive terms of 
reference that ensure due diligence quality and responsibility in assessing: (a) full coverage of 
asset quality and related group lending activity; (b) the prospective and residual earn-out 
capacity of future pre-provision cash earnings; (c) the reliability and integrity of information and 
data processing systems; (d) the efficiency of operations (profitability of major business 
lines/products, cost absorption of delivery networks, and effectiveness of head-count), and 
effectiveness of credit processes; and (e) the treasury and liquidity-funding activities. 
 
Gfi
Third, advisory assistance will be provided for the 
resolution of banks 
rated as unviable 
following the in-depth diagnostics described above. Assistance will be provided to evaluate and 
structure the least cost resolution option on a case by case basis. The range of option should 
include, in addition to outright liquidation, also viable opportunities for transferring residual 
franchises using purchase and assumption (PA), as well as merger and acquisitions. In such 
cases, a specific evaluation will be conducted to assess the viability of the transaction, and the 
fitness and properness of the acquirers and the resulting banks. Commitment to specific  
benchmarks for increased cost efficiency and profitability will be required.  
 
(c) 
Enhancing the Management of Systemic Risks:
 The goal of this sub-component is to 
complement the current supervision activities of the CNBS with an elaborated system for 
monitoring systemic risks and managing them more  effectively. The activities to be undertaken 
are as follows: 
 
Gfi
First, technical assistance will be provided to design 
a Contingency Plan
 to enhance 
preparedness for a worst case scenario. The preparation of such a plan will involve both the BCH 
and the CNBS. It will include, among other things, (i) an agreement on clear roles and 
responsibilities, procedures and coordination channels to accelerate preventative measures, (ii) 
the review of the lender of last resort function at the BCH and simulation of various scenarios, 
and (iii) the definition of an appropriate communication strategy. 
 
Gfi
Second, support will be provided to the CNBS to establish an elaborated system of 
ongoing diagnostics
 at systemic and individual bank level. These diagnostics will include an 
evaluation of the current industry structure in terms of segments and services, including 
determining excess of physical structure and network redundancy, its effects upon cost 
performance, and the potential volume and trend of banking businesses and segments going 
forward. Similarly, available information from examination and other sources will be used to 
monitor the accumulation of risk across the industry and in individual institutions --including 
projecting the level and trend of stock and flow solvency, overseeing concentrations and related 
lending, suspected related parties, and progress in addressing major troubled debtors in the 
economy. 
Page  35
- 31 - 
 
Gfi
Third, similar support will be provided to the CNBS to design and implement a 
specific 
program of intensified supervision
 of adversely rated banks. The assistance will cover (i) the 
design of specific processes and procedures such as incremental reporting requirements to 
monitor the compliance with the specific holding actions imposed on the selected banks; (ii) 
specific onsite targeted examinations for banks and their major related parties including 
investigations on the source of recapitalization funds and those used for debt repayment by 
related parties; and (iii) the oversight of risk management measures and existing plans of debt 
recovery / work out of problem loans.  
 
(d) 
Design & Implementation of Incentive Package for Self-Rehabilitation of Banks:
 As 
explained earlier, incentives will be provided under the BCP to assist eligible banks to strengthen 
their institutional capacities and improve their profitability in order to achieve compliance with 
the new prudential framework being put in place by the CNBS. Under this sub-component, 
advisory support will be provided to design an incentive package consisting of (i) technical 
assistance (on a cost-sharing basis) to the five top performers on the implementation of the 
previously designed self rehabilitation plans (excluding subsidiaries of OECD banks), and (ii) a 
Government funded capitalization scheme to facilitate viable mergers between sound institutions 
as well as other market-based mechanisms of banking sector consolidation. Subsequently, the 
project will finance the implementation of the directed technical assistance scheme with a 
maximum amount of co-financing of US$500,000.- per eligible bank. These funds would be used 
to hire reputable management consulting firms to advise the selected banks on market strategy 
and business organization (e.g. credit risk management processes, approach to troubled debt 
restructuring, governance and management structures, etc.). 
 
(e) 
Design of Effective Framework for Asset Liquidation:
 Advisory assistance will be 
provided to elaborate at least two different options for the design of a more efficient mechanism 
for the liquidation of assets of intervened banks and the foreclosed assets (
activos eventuales
) in 
the balance sheets of remaining institutions. After Honduran authorities take a decision regarding 
the solution to be selected, experts will be hired to help implement the selected design, the 
procedures and designated vehicles, as well as to identify the legal and regulatory amendments to 
be conducted.  
 
Project Component 2 - US$
2.34
 million 
Reform of Payment System  
 
The objective of this component is to modernize the Honduran payments system and reduce the 
legal, operational, and credit risks affecting its current operations.  The following activities will 
be supported: 
 
(a) 
Definition & Implementation of Reform Scope and Strategy:
 Advisory assistance will 
be provided to formulate a reform strategy, define the scope of the reform and set-up adequate 
organizational arrangements. The scope of the reform will be decided by the authorities 
following in-depth discussions between the BCH, other regulators and private sector 
stakeholders. It will involve a combination of legal, regulatory, governance, procedural and 
system changes. A payments systems reform team will be constituted at the BCH to oversee the 
reform process on a day-to-day basis. The project will cover the costs of hiring a resident 
Page  36
- 32 - 
specialist to coordinate the work of the BCH team for the duration of the project. It will also 
provide for technical experts on very specialized issues whenever required, as well as limited 
funding for training BCH staff and other project stakeholders. Once the strategic vision and the 
scope of the reform have been agreed upon by all project stakeholders, the BCH team will 
prepare a detailed implementation plan to be used as benchmark for project monitoring by the 
PCU.  
 
(b) 
Initiation of new Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS): 
Under this component, 
the project will carry-out an upgrade of the current systems at the BCH to launch a special 
purpose large value payments system that will allow for the separation of large and low value 
payments. The initial investment will cover the costs of hardware (with back-up), software, 
tailoring, training, telecommunication encrypted services and, possibly, SWIFT set-up. Training 
on technical implementation issues for RTGS systems when implementation is provided by a 
contracted company (versus an in-house system) is likely to be provided also by this company 
included in a package offer. 
 
(c) 
Implementation of a Central Securities Depository (CSD):
 
A depository function for 
securities settlement will be established to help mitigate risks and provide the necessary facility 
for the development of a collateralized inter-bank money market and the provision of liquidity by 
the Central Bank. The project will cover the costs of purchasing and implementing the 
equipment, including training for the users.  
 
Project Component 3 - US$
2.26
 million 
Improvement of Financial System Infrastructure  
 
(a) 
Strengthening of Institutional Framework for AML/CFT :
   
Gfi
Strengthening the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU)
: The Honduran FIU is a unit 
within the organizational structure of the CNBS, which receives analyzes and disseminates 
financial information related to fighting money laundering.  It is a recently created institution and 
its establishment pursuant to Honduras’ 2002 AML law was an important step towards building 
an integrated AML/CFT regime.  Under the project, advisory assistance will be provided to the 
FIU to strengthen its organizational structure (e.g., through definition of clear procedures) and its 
analytical capabilities. A staff training plan will be developed and implemented, supplemented 
by exchanges with other FIU’s in OECD countries. It is also planned to build capacity within the 
FIU for on-site examinations for AML/CFT purposes. The CNBS had already begun conducting 
such examinations for banks but these compliance examinations are relatively weak and non-
banks have yet to be examined. An agreement was reached with the CNBS to assign about 3 
inspectors to the FIU, who will be trained as AML/CFT specialists and will cover banks and 
non-banks. Some limited equipment will also be provided. 
 
Gfi
AML/CFT Awareness-raising and Training
: While the imposition of reporting and 
record-keeping requirements for financial institutions is important to any AML/CFT regime, it is 
critical to ensure that the financial community understands the risks of AML/CFT to the integrity 
of the Honduran financial system, and that competent authorities deal effectively with such 
cases.  This sub-component will provide training for the financial community (i.e., employees, 
compliance officers, internal auditors and senior management from banks, insurance companies, 
money remitters, exchange houses, and other non-bank financial institutions), financial 
Page  37
- 33 - 
regulators, the FIU,
 
prosecutors and judges.  The training would cover AML/CFT issues and 
would be designed and rendered in partnership with the private sector, possibly the Honduran 
Bankers’ Association (AHIBA).  Training for prosecutors and judges could possibly be 
supplemented with consultations with prosecutors and judges from foreign countries.   
 
(b) 
Strengthening of Framework for Corporate Reorganization and Initiation of Public 
Monitoring Function:
  The thrust of this sub-component is to ensure that (i) a certain level of 
monitoring of major systemic risks emanating from the corporate sector is initiated, and (ii) areas 
related with property rights and security interests regulation and registration, as well as judicial 
and non-judicial mechanisms for corporate insolvency, are governed by a modern and workable 
legal framework and implemented through sound institutions. Its implementation will be carried-
out by the BCH. Technical assistance will be provided for the following initiatives:   
 
Gfi
Initiation of a monitoring unit for large corporate risks: 
A unit will be constituted at 
the BCH to establish a system of ongoing analysis and monitoring of the structure, soundness 
and evolution of the Honduran corporate sector, as well as its ties with local financial 
institutions. Technical assistance will be provided in form of a full-time local expert who will 
coordinate the work of a BCH team for the duration of the project. The project will also provide 
for a high-level international expert to guide the local team in the establishment of the unit, the 
definition of its exact terms of reference, as well as the preparation of a “business plan with clear 
milestones”, and oversee the implementation of the project component through periodic technical 
visits. The project will also cover the cost of staff training and limited equipment. The local 
expert to be hired by the BCH will also be the task manager for all other corporate sector-related 
activities to be implemented by the BCH under this project.  
 
Gfi
The Reform of Bankruptcy Regulation and Improvement of Creditor Rights: 
Advisory assistance will be provided to review the current legal framework for insolvency 
proceedings to reflect internationally recognized best practices regarding the regulation of (i) 
court supervised insolvency proceedings (formal), including corporate reorganization and 
liquidation; (ii) out-of-court (informal) or minimally court supervised (quasi-formal) 
mechanisms for corporate restructuring negotiations and plans (“workouts” and “prepackaged 
plans”); (iii) secured transactions on all kind of tangible and intangible assets; and (iv) related 
laws, as necessary (e.g.: tax legislation relating to treatment of debt writeoffs).  
 
Gfi
Advisory Assistance to Initiate the Implementation of the New Framework for 
Corporate  Restructuring Mechanisms (judicial and extra-judicial):
 
The successful 
implementation of any reform of the legal framework for creditor rights and insolvency 
proceedings will require that the users of the system understand it and have proper incentives to 
adopt it. In this regard, judges will need to be trained on commercial law and related business 
issues. As for the out-of-court corporate restructuring mechanism, the following activities will 
need to be carried out: (i) developing materials and training required to implement the new 
process, including organization and funding of stakeholders workshops with the participation of 
local and international experts in corporate restructuring; (ii) contracting international expert 
consultants to provide technical expertise on operational aspects of the voluntary corporate 
restructuring mechanism (e.g., corporate restructuring facilitators/mediators); and (iii) 
developing and implementing an effective communications strategy to help disseminate 
Page  38
- 34 - 
awareness of the process and advantages of the voluntary corporate restructuring mechanism to 
main stakeholders, including investors, creditors, users, as well as the general public. 
 
Gfi
Elaboration of Reform Proposal for Property Registries:
 Technical assistance will be 
provided to design a safe, efficient, modern and cost-effective registration method for property 
rights, licensing of rights and secured interests. The tasks to be performed include: (i) a review of 
the existing legal and institutional infrastructure, and the organizational aspects of the 
registration system in Honduras (including the Immovable Property Registry, the Public Registry 
of Commerce and any other existent Registry); (ii) evaluation as to whether the registration 
system should be privately administered with public supervision, or part of the public 
administration, with or without partial involvement of private sector institutions; (iii) evaluation 
of the costs and fees associated with the process of registration and search of data related with 
property rights, secured transactions, judicial orders affecting the debtor’s assets, etc.; (iv) 
providing ideas for the reform process of the registration system and for the creation of modern 
linked registries, or a single unified registry, utilizing modern and computerized technologies; (v) 
evaluation of the needs and prospective costs of technical equipment (hardware and software) 
required to perform electronically the different steps of the registration process (filing, recording, 
searching, etc.); (vi) providing ideas for the design of the required legal regulation for a modern 
registration system; and (vii) the actions required to implement the new system, such as capacity 
building for the registries staff, and the development of appropriate guide and manuals to educate 
the public and users of the system. An integrated team of legal and technical consultants will be 
hired to carry-out this component.  
  
(c) 
Dissemination of Best Practices in Rural Finance:
  Advisory assistance will be 
provided to (i) review the current instruments used by the government of Honduras to facilitate 
and reactivate lending to small agricultural producers, and (ii) identify possible options for 
improvement based on international best practices.  The analytical work conducted during the 
project preparation will also be taken into account in the context of the initial assessment to be 
done.  Once the government takes a decision regarding its reform strategy based on the 
recommendations made, experts will be hired to help prepare the implementation of this strategy.  
 
Project Component 4 - US$
1.25
 million  
Project Administration  
 
Under this component, the project will finance the salaries of project staff, operational expenses 
(including audits, local transportation and travel, etc.), training and limited equipment. This 
should ensure an efficient implementation and adequate monitoring of the different project 
components, as well as compliance with Bank financial management and procurement 
guidelines. The project staff mentioned above include the project coordinator (1 person), a 
procurement specialist (1 person), a financial management specialist (1 person), the members of 
the task force (at least 4 persons) provided by the CNBS and the BCH to implement the banking 
sector consolidation program, and one administrative assistant (1 person) provided by the CNBS. 
The equipment requirements of this team will include desktop and lap-top computers, fax, 
copiers, and ancillary office equipment. It is understood that over the period of the project, the 
interaction between the staff at the CNBS and the project unit will allow a transfer of skills to 
CNBS staff. 
 
Page  39
- 35 - 
Project Component 5 - US$
0.49
 million  
Unallocated Reserve   
 
An unallocated reserve of about 4.5% of the total project costs (US$0.49 million) has been set to 
allow for a limited level of flexibility in project implementation. Experience clearly shows that 
the issues addressed by the project tend to have their own dynamics and such an unallocated 
reserve would serve as a risk management tool against unexpected funding requirements during 
the life of the project. The largest share of these funds is likely to be used for additional 
consultancy services. 
 
 
Page  40
- 36 - 
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
 
 
Local 
Foreign 
Total 
Project Cost By Component 
US $million 
US $million 
US $million 
A. Technical Assistance for Banking Sector Consolidation 
0.00 4.50 
4.50 
B. Reform of Payments System 
0.00 2.25 
2.25 
C. Improvement of Financial System Infrastructure 
0.19 1.84 
2.03 
D. Project Administration 
1.11 0.00 
1.11 
Unallocated Reserve 
0.00 0.49 
0.49 
Total Baseline Cost 
1.30 9.08 
10.38 
  Physical Contingencies 
0.00 0.00 
0.00 
  Price Contingencies 
0.16 0.46 
0.62 
Total Project Costs
1
 
1.46 9.54 
11.00 
Total Financing Required 
1.46 9.54 
11.00 
 
 
 
Local 
Foreign 
Total 
Project Cost By Category 
US $million 
US $million 
US $million 
 
 
Services 
1.39 5.92 
7.31 
Training 
0.00 0.89 
0.89 
Goods 
0.07 2.24 
2.31 
Unallocated  
0.49 0.49 
Total Project Costs
1
1.46 9.54 
11.00 
Total Financing Required
1.46 9.54 
11.00 
 
 
1
 
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 11 (US$m).  Therefore, the project cost
 sharing ratio is 90% of 
total project cost net of taxes. 
 
Page  41
- 37 - 
 
Annex 4 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
 
Not Applicable
Page  42
- 38 - 
                                                             
Annex 5:  Financial Summary 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
Years Ending 
 
 
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD 
 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5 
Year 6
Year 7 
Total Financing Required 
  Project Costs 
 
 
     
    Investment Costs 
1.9 
6.0 1.3 0.7 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
   Recurrent Costs 
0.2 
0.3 0.4 0.2 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
Total Project Costs 
2.1 
6.3 1.7 0.9 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
Total Financing 
2.1 
6.3 1.7 0.9 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
 
 
 
    
 
Financing 
 
     
 
     IBRD/IDA 
1.9 
5.7 1.5 0.8 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
     Government 
0.2 
0.6 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
            Central 
0.2 
0.6 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
            Provincial 
0.0 
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
     Co-financiers 
0.0 
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
User Fees/Beneficiaries 
0.0 
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
Other 
0.0 
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
Total Project Financing 
2.1 
6.3 1.7 0.9 0.0 0.0 
0.0 
 
Main assumptions: 
 
Page  43
- 39 - 
Annex 6(A):  Procurement  Arrangements 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
Procurement
 
A.  Procurement Arrangements
: 
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in 
accordance with the World Bank "
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
", 
published in January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and 
"
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
" published in 
January 1997 (revised in September 1999, January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated 
in the Credit Agreement. The objective of the Project is to 
support the development of the 
institutional capacity needed by the Honduran Authorities in order to address vulnerabilities 
of the financial system through capacity-building for dealing with weaknesses of the banking 
system, a prerequisite for sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. The project will 
achieve this objective by providing technical assistance for: (i) Technical Assistance for 
Banking Sector Consolidation, (ii) Reform of the Payments System, (iii) Improvement of 
Financial System Infrastructure, and (iv) 
Project Administration
.  
 
The Project is broken down into four components as follows: 
 
1. 
Technical Assistance for Banking Sector Consolidation
 – (US$4.50 Million)
:   This 
component will focus on:  
i) 
Improvement of Legal and Regulatory Framework for Banking
 includes the Review & Reform of 
Financial Institutions Law, Review & Reform of FOSEDE Law, Review & Reform of CNBS & BCH 
Laws, Review & Reform of crucial prudential regulations and the Adoption of Governance & Risk 
Management Standards. The procurement actions are in the form of individual consultancies. 
ii) 
Rehabilitation planning & In-depth Diagnostics of selected banks
 
includes Preparation and 
Assessment of Rehabilitation Plans, Special Diagnostic of Troubled Banks and Advisory Assistance 
for Resolution of Non-Viable Banks. The procurement actions are in the form of consultants services 
employing firms and individual consultants, both national and international. 
iii)  Enhancing Management of Systemic Risks
 include Detailed Contingency Planning, Ongoing 
Diagnostic and Intensive Supervision of High-Risk Institutions. The procurement actions are in the 
form of a) consultants services employing firms and individual consultants, both national and 
international; b) training including workshops, seminars, study trips and on-the-job training at similar 
institutions abroad; c) equipment such as desktops and lap-tops, a database interface, servers and 
examination and statistical software and licenses. 
iv) 
Design & Implementation of Incentive Package for Self-Rehabilitation of Banks
 include 
the hiring of specialized companies to assist eligible institutions. 
v) 
The design of an effective framework  for assets liquidation
 by hiring a firm to carry out this 
function. 
 
2. 
Reform of the Payments System
 – (US$2.25 Million)
:  This component involves advisory 
assistance for formulation of a reform strategy and its implementation, acquiring and implementing a 
Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) and acquiring and implementing equipment for the 
Page  44
- 40 - 
reform of the repository system. The procurement actions are in the form of a) consultants services 
employing individual consultants; b) training including workshops, seminars, study trips and on-the-
job training at similar institutions abroad; and c) equipment (RTGS and Reform of Depository 
Systems). 
 
3. 
Improvement of Financial System Infrastructure
 (US$2.03 Million)
:  
 
This component will focus on:  
i) 
Strengthening Institutional Framework for AML/CFT
 includes Strengthening of the Financial 
Information Unit (FIU) and Awareness-raising and Training. The procurement actions are in the form 
of a) consultants services employing firms and individual consultants, both national and international; 
b) training including workshops, seminars, study trips and on-the-job training at similar institutions 
abroad; c) equipment such as desktops and lap-tops, a database interface, servers and analytical 
software and licenses. 
ii) 
Strengthening Framework for Corporate Restructuring & Initiation of Public Oversight Function
 
includes the creation of an Oversight Unit for corporate risks at the Central Bank, Reform of 
Bankruptcy Regulation and Improvement of Creditor Rights, Advisory Assistance for Implementation 
of new framework for corporate restructuring mechanisms (both judicial and extra-judicial) and 
Elaboration of a reform proposal for property registries. The procurement actions are in the form of a) 
consultants services employing firms and individual consultants, both national and international; b) 
training including workshops, seminars, study trips and on-the-job training at similar institutions 
abroad; c) equipment such as desktops, servers and licenses. 
iii)  Dissemination of Best Practices in Rural Finance.
  The procurement actions are in the form of a) 
consultants services employing firms and individual consultants, both national and international, and 
b) training including workshops, seminars, study trips and on-the-job training at similar institutions 
abroad. 
4. Project 
Administration
 (US$1.11 Million)
: This component is targeted at supporting the 
Project Consolidation Unit (PCU) in the CNBS to assure effective project management and 
coordination, and strengthen the capacity of this institution to implement and supervise the project. It 
includes the hiring of a project coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial/accounting 
specialist. This will be done in accordance with the Bank’s guidelines for selection of individual 
consultants.  
5. Unallocated 
Reserve
: 
US$1.11 Million 
 
Procurement methods (Table A) 
 
 
 
The methods to be used for procurement are described below, and the estimated amounts for each 
method, are summarized in Table A.  The threshold contract values for the use of each method are 
specified in Table B. 
 
Procurement of Goods:  
Goods procured under this project will include desktops and lap-tops, a 
database interface, servers and examination and statistical software and licenses. The RTGSS and the 
Reform of Depository systems will be the most complex and expensive equipment to be procured. 
Special attention will be given to the preparation of the specifications. To the extent possible, 
contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than US$150,000 equivalent 
and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using IDA-issued 
Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).  Goods estimated to cost between US$25,000 and 
Page  45
- 41 - 
US$150,000, up to an aggregate not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured using National 
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with IDA.  Contracts 
for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than 
US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate not to exceed US$150,000 equivalent, may be procured 
using Shopping (National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations 
satisfactory to the IDA. 
 
Selection of Consultants: 
  Consulting Services will be procured using Bank Standard Request for 
Proposals.  
 
Firms: 
All contracts for firms will be procured using QCBS except for small and simple contracts 
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less that may be procured using LC or Consultants’ 
Qualifications.  
 
Individuals: 
Specialized advisory services up to an aggregate amount of US$3,000,000 equivalent 
will be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of qualifications of three 
candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
A)   Prior review thresholds
:
  The proposed thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table B.  
 
B)  Assessment of the agency’s capacity to implement procurement
:   The Capacity Assessment
was approved by the office of the RPA on May 14, 2003. Procurement activities will be carried out 
by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).  The PCU will be staffed by a Project Coordinator, a 
Procurement specialist and a financial/accounting specialist.   
 
A Capacity Assessment of the PCU to implement procurement has provided the means to identify 
certain risks concerning the PCU. The issues, recommended actions and the deadlines for their 
completion are as follows: 
 
 
Area Actions 
Deadline 
(a)   Procurement Cycle 
Management
. 
Finalize General Procurement 
Plan 
By negotiations 
(i) 
Procurement planning 
Finalize a complete Operations 
Manual 
By effectiveness 
(ii) Preparation of 
documents 
Prepare SBDs for all types of 
procurement 
By effectiveness 
(iii) Contract Administration 
Define areas of responsibility  
By effectiveness 
(b)   Organization and Functions 
 
 
(i) 
Organization of unit and 
functions 
Hire a Procurement Specialist 
By effectiveness 
(ii) Internal manuals and 
instructions 
Finalize Operations Manual 
By effectiveness 
(c)   Support and Control Systems 
 
 
(i) Technical 
and 
administrative controls 
Details must be included in 
Operations Manual 
By effectiveness 
(d)   Staffing 
 
 
(i) 
Existence of experienced 
and capable staff 
Hire experienced procurement 
specialist 
By effectiveness 
(ii)  Clear written standards 
and delegation of authority 
Must be included in OM 
By effectiveness 
Page  46
- 42 - 
 
 
 
 
Considering the nature and complexity of the procurement actions under the project and the fact that 
CNBS has no experience in World Bank financed projects, the overall project risk for procurement is 
considered to be HIGH. 
 
C)  Procurement Plan:
  
A procurement plan has been developed in as much detail as the possible. 
The PCU will complete and finalize the procurement plan by negotiations.  The task team and the 
staff at the PCU have provided the information required to determine the procurement methods 
(Table A).  At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan 
with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year. 
 
D)  Frequency of Procurement Supervision:
 
It is recommended to carry out supervision missions 
every six months to provide advice in general procurement issues and to reassess the capacity of the 
PCU to carry out procurement in order to review the prior review thresholds. 
 
 
 
 
Expenditure Category
Total 
Cost 
ICB
NCB
Other
2
1.  Consultant Services
0.00
0.00
5.86
5.86
(0.00)
(0.00)
(5.27)
(5.27)
2.  Goods
1.97
0.13
0.06
2.16
(1.97)
(0.13)
(0.05)
(2.15)
3.  Trainin
g
0.00
0.00
0.80
0.80
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.80)
(0.80)
4. Audits
0.00
0.00
0.10
0.10
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.09)
(0.09)
5. O
p
erational Costs
0.00
0.00
0.97
0.97
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.62)
(0.62)
Unallocated
0.00
0.00
1.11
1.11
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.97)
(0.97)
     Total
1.97
0.13
8.90
11.00
(1.97)
(0.13)
(7.72)
(9.90)
1/
 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
2/
 Other:  Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consultant services, services of
contracted staff of the Project Coordinating Unit.
Procurement Method
1
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ Million equivalent)
Page  47
- 43 - 
Annex 6,
 
Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements  
(in US$ million equivalent) 
Consultant 
Services 
Expenditure 
Category (* 
Selection Method 
Total Cost  
 QCBS 
QBS 
SFB 
LCS 
CQ 
Other 
 
A.  Firms 
3.61 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.37  0.00 
4.08 
 
(3.25) (0.00) (0.00) (0.09) (0.33)  (0.00) 
(3.67) 
B.  Individuals 
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  1.87 
1.87 
 
(0.00) (0.00) (0.00) (0.00) (0.00)  (1.68) 
(1.68) 
Total 
3.61 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.37  1.87 
5.95 
 
(3.25) (0.00) (0.00) (0.09) (0.33)  (1.68) 
(5.35) 
Note: 
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
QBS  = Quality-based Selection 
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget 
LCS  = Least-Cost Selection 
CQ   = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications 
Other = Selection of individual consultants. 
(*= Audit costs are included in the total consultants costs shown above. 
 
 
 
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment has been rated as HIGH: 
 
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: 
One every 6 months. 
Expenditure Category
Contract Value
Procurement
Contracts 
Subject to
(Threshold)
Method
Prior Review
US $ thousands
US $ millions
1.  Goods
     
>150
ICB
All
     
>25 < 150
NCB
All contracts above 
$50,000
2.  Consultants
Firms
>100
QCBS
All
     
< 100
QCBS, LCS, CQ
All
8.0
All (TOR, contract, 
CV)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
     
<25
Shopping
Post-review
Individuals
All values
See Section V of 
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Page  48
- 44 - 
Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
Financial Management
 
1.  Summary of the Financial Management Assessment 
The Honduras Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project is expected to cost US$11 
million, of which the IDA Credit of US$9.9 million equivalent will finance 90%. The 
remaining US$1.1 million will be financed by the Government of Honduras. The overall 
responsibility for project implementation will reside with both Central Bank of Honduras 
(BCH) and Comisión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros (CNBS). A key component of the 
project will be undertaken by a joint CNBS/BCH task force, which will be part of the Project 
Coordination Unit (PCU) to be located at CNBS. The PCU will function under the 
supervision of the President of the CNBS and a Steering Committee comprising the 
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, CNBS, BCH and possibly the Financial and 
Monetary Committee of the Parliament. 
 
The PCU will be responsible for the project financial management arrangements including 
the flow of funds management for the entire project. As a result of the financial management 
assessment undertaken during project preparation, certain weakness and gaps in the financial 
management structure of the PCU will need to addressed in order to ensure that the PCU will 
have the capability to properly undertake the financial management of the project. The 
weakness related to the following financial management aspects include: (i) lack of a 
financial procedures manual to guide the recording and reporting of financial transactions; 
(ii) lack of adequate accounting  norms and procedures for the setting up accounts, journals 
and ledgers to support proper  financial statement preparation and documentation; and (iii) 
the lack of an on-going training program for accounting and financial staff. During 
preparation of the project a financial management plan of action was agreed with the PCU to 
address these weaknesses, prior to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit. This action plan will 
be finalized in consultation with IDA. IDA is assisting the PCU prepare the financial 
procedures manual. A chart of accounts of the PCU, consistent with chart of accounts of the 
Government, is also under preparation and a financial management and accounting system 
capable of producing financial management reports (FMRs) will be completed prior to Credit 
effectiveness. IDA will provide training for PCU financial and accounting staff and 
assistance to the PCU in hiring external auditors.   
 
Staffing 
 
The PCU is expected to have in place, prior to Credit effectiveness, the institutional capacity 
required to carry out the financial management requirements of the project. The PCU will be 
under the direction of a Project Coordinator who will report to the TSPC and to the President 
of the CNBS in the implementation of the decisions taken by the former. Reporting directly 
to the Project Coordinator (PC) will be a Procurement Officer, a Financial Management 
Officer, and the Task Force members in charge of implementing the BCP. The project 
implementation teams for the payment system and corporate sector components will report 
primarily to the management of the BCH, but their work will also be supervised by the PCU 
at the CNBS. 
Page  49
- 45 - 
 
Flow of Funds 
 
The PCU will establish and maintain a project Special Account (SA) to be established at the 
Central Bank of Honduras. The PCU will also establish a project account to which the 
Government’s counterpart funds will be deposited.
 
Disbursements under the IDA Credit will 
be transactions based. An authorized allocation will be advanced into the SA, based on the 
estimated IDA share of the expenses to be financed through the SA during the first four 
months of the project. The PCU will undertake monthly reconciliations of the balances in the 
special account and project account, as well as the project expenditures, the government's 
contribution and IDA's disbursements. 
 
Project Financial Monitoring Reports, FMRs 
 
The general format of the FMR will follow the one agreed with the Government of 
Honduras. The format will also be consistent with the financial reporting format being 
followed under the program of IDB assistance to the financial sector in Honduras
. 
Both the 
BCH and the CNBS will provide the PCU with the necessary documentation in a pre-
determined format to enable the PCU to prepare the project FMRs. The FMRs will provide 
information for monitoring the financial implementation and procurement progress of the 
project. The financial reports will indicate inflows of financial resources by sources and 
outflow by expenditure categories, both by reporting period and cumulatively. They will also 
include supporting schedules comparing planned versus actual expenditures. The financial 
reports, which will be prepared from accounts that are consistent with GOH chart of 
accounts, will also provide the basis for the preparation of the project audit reports. Reports 
to assist the monitoring of the implementation progress of the project will include project 
performance indicators that will link the financial information and implementation progress. 
Reports for monitoring progress in the acquisition of project facilities will include reports on 
the procurement of goods, works (if any), and services. The procurement progress reports 
will address issues relating to the compliance with IDA procurement guidelines, highlight 
key procurement issues and provide information on complaints, inadequate performance, if 
any, and major disputes. 
 
Risk Analysis 
 
The specific financial management risk to be considered during the implementation of the 
project is the capability of the PCU to properly manage the financial management aspects of 
the project and whether the PCU will be able to meet the requirements for utilizing reports 
(i.e. FMRs) based disbursement. The strengthening of the Finance and Accounting Unit of 
the PCU and the hiring of Financial Officer should substantially mitigate this risk. 
Furthermore the consultants will put in place a training program that will upgrade and 
maintain the skills of the Finance and Accounting Unit during project implementation.  
While the PCU currently does not have an established procedures manual, procedures are 
followed, and there is a high degree of awareness and application of what constitutes 
acceptable good practice.  The production of an operations manual will also reduce the risk 
level of the project. 
 
Page  50
- 46 - 
Conditions of Effectiveness 
 
The following are the conditions of Effectiveness specifically relating to the financial 
management of the project: (i) completion of the Financial Management System; (ii) 
finalization of a project operations manual detailing financial procedures; and (iii) the 
appointment of an external auditing firm on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the 
IDA. 
 
2.  Audit Arrangements 
An external auditor, acceptable to IDA, will be contracted by the PCU to carry out an annual 
financial audit of the project, as required by OP/BP 10.02. The auditor will be selected in 
accordance with IDA’s Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by the 
World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997. The auditors should 
be hired at the project inception, and ideally renewed prior to the commencement of each 
project fiscal year thereafter, so that interim audits can be performed throughout each year of 
project implementation. The project financial statements, the Special Account, and 
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be audited at the end of each fiscal year of project 
implementation. An audit report of the project financial statements should be sent to IDA 
within 4 months of the close of the fiscal year of the project. The Guidelines and Terms of 
Reference for Audits of Projects with financing by the World Bank in the Latin American 
and the Caribbean Region should be followed by the PCU when preparing the terms of 
reference for the audit and these guidelines should be provided to the auditors invited to 
submit proposals for undertaking the project audits. 
 
3.  Disbursement Arrangements 
During project implementation, disbursements will be transactions-based (Statements of 
Expenditures, SOEs). Disbursements will be made on the basis of full documentation, 
provided in advance, for all expenditures above the prior review threshold. For all other 
eligible expenditures, disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs for goods costing 
less than US$50,000. Similarly, all expenditures for training and operational costs will be 
made on the basis of SOEs.  The authorized allocation to the special account during the 
transactions based disbursement will be set at a level sufficient to cover approximately four 
months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by the IDA up to a maximum 
allocation of US$750,000.   All supporting documentation authenticating the expenditures 
reported in the SOEs and FMRs will be maintained by the PCU and made available for 
review by independent  auditors and by the IDA supervision missions. Disbursements against 
contracts for all consulting services will be on the basis of the full documentation. 
 
Retroactive Financing 
 
Retroactive financing may be made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures 
under the Project from June 1, 2003 (or 12 months from the date of agreement, whichever is 
later) through the effectiveness of the project in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.5 
million equivalent. 
 
 
 
Page  51
- 47 - 
Use of Statement of Expenditures  (SOE) 
 
During the first year of project implementation, SOEs may be submitted for goods under 
contracts for expenditures for which no prior review is required, as well as training and 
operational costs. 
 
Special Account 
 
A separate project Special Account in US Dollars will be established at the Central Bank of 
Honduras. The PCU will be responsible for submitting appropriate disbursement applications 
to request transfer of funds to the Special Account. Replenishments of the funds under SOEs 
will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of previous advance (s) as evidenced by 
the documentation submitted in support of disbursement applications. Deposits into the 
Special account  and its replenishment, up to the authorized allocation will be made initially 
on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting 
and other documentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Replenishment 
applications should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly bank 
statements are received and reconciled by the project entity.  
 
The project completion date will be March 31, 2007, with the Credit Closing date of 
September 30, 2007. The Credit proceeds will be disbursed against the following percentages 
of eligible expenditures: 90% for services; 88% for local goods and 100% for foreign goods; 
98% for training and audits; and 64% for operational costs. 
 
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C) 
 
 
 
Table C:  Allocation of Credit Proceeds 
 
Expenditure Category 
Amount in US$million 
Financing Percentage 
Services 5.27 
90% 
 
Goods 
2.15 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 88% of local expenditures 
Training 0.78 
98% 
Audit 0.09 
90% 
Operational Costs 
0.62 
64% 
Unallocated 0.99 
 
Total Project Costs with Bank 
Financing 
9.90  
Total 
9.90  
 
 
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): 
 
 
 
Special account:  
 
 
 
Page  52
- 48 - 
 
Annex 7:  Project Processing Schedule 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
  
 
Project Schedule 
Planned 
  
 
Actual 
Time taken to prepare the project (months) 
 
  
First Bank mission (identification) 
 
 
Appraisal mission departure 
05/19/2003 05/19/2003 
Negotiations 
05/22/2003 05/23/2003 
Planned Date of Effectiveness 
09/30/2003  
 
Prepared by: 
Comisión Nacional de Bancos y Seguros, Banco Central de Honduras 
 
Preparation assistance: 
Japanese PHRD Grant TF025839 (US$0.695 m) 
Prepared with the assistance of consultants and IDA staff 
 
Bank staff who worked on the project included: 
             Name   
                         Speciality 
Modibo Khane Camara 
Sr. Financial Economist / Task Team Leader 
Joaquin G. Gutierrez 
Lead Financial Sector Specialist / Banking Consolidation Program 
Juan Ortiz 
Sr. Financial Sector Specialist / Banking Supervision 
Mario Guadamillas 
Sr. Financial Economist / Payments System 
Pierre-Laurent Chatain 
Sr. Financial Specialist / Prevention of Money Laundering 
Aquiles A. Almansi 
Sr. Financial Economist 
Frank Baumgardt 
Consultant 
Helena K. Issa 
Program Assistant 
Pilar Gonzalez 
Counsel 
Rajeev Swami 
Financial Management Officer 
Emmanuel N. Njomo 
Sr. Projects Officer 
Adolfo Rouillon 
Consultant / Bankruptcy Regulation & Credit Rights 
Bess Johnson Michael 
Sr. Financial Sector Specialist 
Luis R. Prada Villalobos 
Procurement Specialist 
Ilias Skamnelos 
Junior Professional Associate 
Cara Zappala 
Operations Analyst 
Astrid Manroth 
Financial Economist 
 
Page  53
- 49 - 
Annex 8:  Documents in the Project File* 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
 
A.  Project Implementation Plan 
 
 
B.  Bank Staff Assessments 
Capacity Assessments for Procurement and Financial Management 
 
C.  Other 
Memorandum of Understanding between the CNBS and IDA dated April 1, 2003 
Aide-Memoire of Appraisal Mission (May 19 -20, 2003) 
*Including electronic files 
Page  54
- 50 - 
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits 
 
HONDURAS
: 
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
16-Apr-2003 
 
  
 
 
Original Amount in US$ Millions 
 Difference 
between 
expected 
and actual 
disbursements
a 
Project ID 
FY 
Purpose 
IBRD
IDA
 
GEF 
Cancel. 
Undisb. 
Orig 
Frm Rev'd
P053575 
P057859 
P060785 
P057538 
P064895 
P073035 
P007397 
P064913 
P057350 
P044343 
P007398 
P007388 
2002 
2002 
2001 
2001 
2001 
2001 
2001 
2000 
1999 
1998 
1997 
1993 
HN- HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROJECT 
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM PROJECT  
HN ECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
HN ROAD RECONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEME 
HN FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJE 
Access to Land Pilot (PACTA) 
HN COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT 
EMERG DISASTER MGMT (TAL) 
PROFUTURO 
GEF HN-BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION 
RURAL LAND MGMT 
TRNSPRT SCTR RHB 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
27.10 
5.00 
19.00 
66.50 
60.00 
8.00 
41.50 
10.82 
8.30 
0.00 
34.00 
65.00 
 0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
7.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
1.12 
29.54 
4.76 
13.34 
46.38 
27.55 
6.57 
39.85 
7.88 
4.21 
3.06 
4.07 
0.22 
0.00 
1.21 
13.53 
2.07 
-2.88 
2.93 
12.89 
-3.02 
-0.04 
6.74 
-2.00 
-18.86 
0.00 
1.53 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
3.34 
0.00 
-1.99 
1.28 
Total:
0.00 345.22 
 
7.00 
1.12 187.43 
12.56 4.16 
Page  55
- 51 - 
 
HONDURAS 
STATEMENT OF IFC's 
Held and Disbursed Portfolio 
Jun 30 - 2002 
In Millions US Dollars 
 
 
Committed Disbursed 
 IFC 
 
IFC
 
 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan
Equity
Quasi
Partic
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi
Partic
1998 
1995/98 
1986/99 
Camino Real Plaz 
Elcosa 
Granjas Marinas 
9.00
0.00
4.50
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
9.00 
0.00 
4.50 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
 
Total Portfolio:     
 13.50
0.00
0.00
0.00
13.50 
0.00  0.00
0.00
 
 
Approvals Pending Commitment 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan
Equity
Quasi 
Partic 
  
 
 
 
Total Pending Commitment: 
0.00
0.00
0.00 
0.00 
 
Page  56
- 52 - 
Annex 10:  Country at a Glance 
 
HONDURAS: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit 
 
Latin
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL
A
merica
middle-
Honduras
& Carib.
income
2001
Po
p
ulation, mid-
y
ear 
(
millions
)
6.6
524
2,164
GNI 
p
er ca
p
ita 
(
Atlas method, US$
)
890
3,560
1,240
GNI 
(
Atlas method, US$ billions
)
5.9
1,862
2,677
Avera
g
e annual 
g
rowth, 1995-01
Po
p
ulation 
(
%
)
2.6
1.5
1.0
Labor force 
(
%
)
3.7
2.2
1.2
Most recent estimate 
(
latest 
y
ear available, 1995-01
)
Povert
y
 
(
% of population below national povert
y
 line
)
..
..
..
Urban 
p
o
p
ulation 
(
% of total population
)
54
76
46
Life ex
p
ectanc
y
 at birth 
(y
ears
)
66
70
69
Infant mortalit
y
 
(
per 1,000 live births
)
35
29
33
Child malnutrition 
(
% of children under 5
)
25
9
11
A
ccess to an im
p
roved water source 
(
% of 
p
o
p
ulation
)
90
85
80
Illiterac
y
 
(
% of 
p
o
p
ulation a
g
e 15+
)
25
11
15
Gross 
p
rimar
y
 enrollment  
(
% of school-a
g
e 
p
o
p
ulation
)
108
130
107
    Male
107
131
107
    Female
110
128
107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981
1991
2000
2001
GDP 
(
US$ billions
)
2.8
3.1
5.9
6.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP
21.1
24.7
32.5
30.6
Ex
p
orts of 
g
oods and services/GDP
30.8
33.0
42.1
38.3
Gross domestic savin
g
s/GDP
14.1
20.0
18.8
13.9
Gross national savin
g
s/GDP
10.0
15.3
23.5
20.3
Current account balance/GDP
-11.1
-9.2
-9.0
-10.3
Interest 
p
a
y
ments/GDP
3.4
4.8
2.6
2.1
Total debt/GDP
60.5
110.7
88.7
80.2
Total debt service/ex
p
orts
25.6
27.6
14.8
13.2
Present value of debt/GDP
..
..
52.5
..
Present value of debt/ex
p
orts
..
..
102.0
..
1981-91
1991-01
2000
2001
2001-05
(
avera
g
e annual 
g
rowth
)
GDP
3.0
3.0
4.9
2.6
4.0
GDP 
p
er ca
p
ita
-0.1
0.2
2.3
0.1
1.2
Ex
p
orts of 
g
oods and services
1.4
1.7
7.3
4.6
7.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981
1991
2000
2001
(
% of GDP
)
Ag
riculture
22.4
22.7
15.1
13.7
Industr
y
22.9
27.3
32.2
31.6
   Manufacturin
g
14.4
16.9
20.0
20.3
Services
54.7
50.0
52.7
54.7
Private consum
p
tion
73.1
68.1
68.5
72.2
General 
g
overnment consum
p
tion
12.8
12.0
12.8
13.9
Im
p
orts of 
g
oods and services
37.7
37.7
55.9
55.0
1981-91
1991-01
2000
2001
(
avera
g
e annual 
g
rowth
)
Ag
riculture
3.1
1.7
9.5
-0.9
Industr
y
3.4
3.5
5.2
1.6
   Manufacturin
g
3.9
4.1
5.5
5.2
Services
2.6
3.7
4.4
4.5
Private consum
p
tion
2.9
2.8
4.6
3.8
General 
g
overnment consum
p
tion
2.5
4.0
15.7
11.3
Gross domestic investment
6.2
5.0
-0.8
-3.9
Im
p
orts of 
g
oods and services
2.8
3.5
3.8
3.6
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, t
he diamond will be incomplete.
-10
-5
0
5
10
96
97
98
99
00
01
GDI
GDP
Growth of investment and GDP (%)
Honduras
Lower-middle-income group
Development diamond*
Life expectancy
Access to improved water source
GNI
per
capita
Gross
primar
y
enrollment
-20
-10
0
10
20
96
97
98
99
00
01
Exports
Imports
Growth of exports and imports (%)
Honduras
Lower-middle-income group
Economic ratios*
Trade
Domestic
savings
Investment
Indebtedness
 
Page  57
- 53 - 
H
onduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981
1991
2000
2001
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices
..
34.0
11.0
9.7
Implicit GDP deflator
7.1
26.0
8.7
9.6
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue
13.5
18.2
18.0
18.2
Current budget balance
-0.6
-0.3
0.5
-0.4
Overall surplus/deficit
-9.5
-5.3
-6.8
-8.1
TRADE
1981
1991
2000
2001
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)
784
835
1,426
1,379
   Bananas
213
314
124
204
   Coffee
173
146
339
161
   Manufactures
..
..
..
..
Total imports (cif)
976
1,001
2,855
2,997
   Food
160
140
470
480
   Fuel and energy
163
150
384
402
   Capital goods
216
188
722
867
Ex
p
ort 
p
rice index 
(1995=100)
..
92
98
90
Im
p
ort 
p
rice index 
(1995=100)
..
79
131
133
Terms of trade 
(1995=100)
..
117
75
68
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981
1991
2000
2001
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services
884
997
2,497
2,447
Imports of goods and services
1,061
1,139
3,313
3,512
Resource balance
-177
-142
-816
-1,064
Net income
-153
-192
-165
-141
Net current transfers
18
53
447
550
Current account balance
-313
-281
-534
-656
Financing items (net)
239
350
554
736
Changes in net reserves
74
-69
-20
-80
Memo:
Reserves includin
g
 
g
old 
(US$ millions)
..
198
1,285
1,386
Conversion rate 
(DEC, local/US$)
2.0
5.3
14.8
15.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981
1991
2000
2001
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
1,705
3,396
5,255
5,121
    IBRD
176
551
152
125
    IDA
77
126
838
901
Total debt service
236
307
450
410
    IBRD
20
88
48
36
    IDA
1
2
8
10
Composition of net resource flows
    Official grants
25
549
292
344
    Official creditors
172
121
316
195
    Private creditors
61
5
16
-72
    Foreign direct investment
-4
52
262
186
    Portfolio equity
0
0
0
0
World Bank program
    Commitments
0
91
154
66
    Disbursements
42
78
38
98
    Principal repayments
6
45
35
27
    Net flows
37
33
3
71
    Interest payments
15
45
21
19
    Net transfers
22
-12
-18
52
Development Economics
9/16/02
-15
-10
-5
0
95
96
97
98
99
00
01
Current account balance to GDP (%)
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
95
96
97
98
99
00
01
Exports
Imports
Export and import levels (US$ m
ill.)
0
10
20
30
40
96
97
98
99
00
01
GDP deflator
CPI
Inflation (%)
G: 329
A: 125
D: 1,510
C: 220
B: 901
F: 666
E: 1,370
Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
A - IBRD
B - IDA    
C - IMF
D - Other multilateral
E - Bilateral
F - Private
G - Short-term
Page  58
- 54 - 
 
