1
PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld Froo of Povorty g3
~InfoShop
'Me Wodd lunk
Report No AB56
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                HONDURAS-Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit
Region                      Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Banking (100%)
Project ID                  P040177
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Implementing Agency         COMISION NACIONAL DE BANCOS Y SEGUROS
Address                     Comision Nacional de Bancos y Seguros
Address: Apartado Postal No 20074
Comayaguela, M.D C Honduras, C A
Contact Person: Dra Ana Cristina de Pereira
Tel (504)238-0580    Fax: (504)237-6232     Email
apereira@cnbs gov hn
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           April 29, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         May 15, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 24, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Persistent Weakness of Domestic Financial Institutions
The Honduran financial sector suffered undoubtedly a severe shock in October 1998, when Hurricane
Mitch hit the country with devastating effects in terms of human lives and disruption of economic
activity. Yet, current data suggest that the exposed weaknesses are still affecting Honduran financial
institutions today, 5 years after the natural disaster, especially the problems with non-performing loans.
Macroeoconomic factors such as the deterioration of the prices of major export commodities (e.g. coffee)
and the recession in the US have certainly contributed significantly to this persistent weakness of the
banking sector. However, the following structural factors appear also to play a considerable role:
a)     Too many banks are competing for a limited market potential, and this is resulting in a situation
of low cost efficiency & decreasing profitability in the sector.
b)     Risk management at many Honduran financial institutions is still at a very early stage, which is
resulting in insufficient diversification, inadequate internal organization & business practices, as well as
a high level of vulnerability to external shocks.
c)     Shortcomings in the legal & regulatory framework allow weak institutions to continue their
operations longer than good prudential supervision would permit, giving them thereby the opportunity to
accumulate more losses and further weaken.



2
PID
Inadequate Framework for Financial Sector Supervision and Regulation
Current laws confer the oversight authority over the financial sector to the Comisi6n Nacional de
Bancos y Seguros (CNBS) and the Central Bank of Honduras (BCH). Since 1999, the CNBS has made
efforts to improve its "market coverage" and the quality of its oversight partly with technical assistance
from the IMF and the IDB. Still, a recent diagnostic found banking supervision in Honduras could be
improved in the following areas: (i) consolidated supervision, (ii) prudential norms especially those on
capital adequacy, loan classification and provisioning, and corporate governance and risk management,
and (iii) framework for prompt corrective action.
Structural Weaknesses in the Corporate Sector
Available data indicates that Honduran companies had until December 1999 a very high level of
leverage with debt often reaching several multiples of equity endowment, as well as low levels of
profitability. In the immediate post-Mitch period, profitability has been decreasing sharply and the
average ROE had even turned negative for the selected companies of the commerce sector.
Unfortunately, more recent information is not available to assess whether this deterioration of financial
soundness in the corporate sector has continued. The persistent difficulties in the banking system,
especially the substantial problems with non-performing loans, suggest however that the corporate sector
remains weak. Anecdotal evidence suggests that a number of large companies are in need of some form
of restructuring, but Honduras lacks an adequate framework for such corporate reorganizations. There is
a widespread perception that said proceedings are very costly, complicated and time consuming which
prevent debtors and creditors from using them. The lack of protection of creditors' rights is increasingly
being perceived by financial institutions as a significant constraint on their lending business.
Systemic Risks related to Payments System Operation
Two payments systems were identified as systemically important in Honduras: the current banks-owned
electronic check clearing house (CEPROBAN) and the funds transfer system associated with the
accounts of financial institutions and the government at the Central Bank. These systems bear some
systemic risks that need to be addressed as soon as possible. These risks include credit and liquidity risks,
legal risks, operational risks, and custody & settlement risk for the special case of securities transactions.
Crisis in Agricultural Lending
The Honduran agricultural sector has been severely hit in recent years by a series of external shocks,
such as Hurricane Mitch and the more recent drop in export prices for key commodities such as coffee.
As a result of this evolution, a significant part of the non-performing loans in the portfolio of commercial
banks are loans to the agricultural sector, which has led in turn to a dramatic decrease of agricultural
lending over the past few years. Given the social and political significance of the agricultural sector in
Honduras, policy makers have undertaken several attempts to revive lending to the sector, so far with
little success. Anecdotal evidence suggests that these government interventions may be having instead
some negative impact on the financial sector by contributing to a deterioration of the payment culture
among existing borrowers.
Government Strategy:
The current Honduran government has clearly demonstrated its readiness for a constructive policy



3
PID
dialogue on financial sector issues in Honduras. Some limited technical assistance is already being
provided (i) in the context of the joint WB - IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), and (ii)
with an existing PHRD grant. This collaboration with IDA has already yielded valuable results.
2. Objectives
The proposed project will support the development of the institutional capacity needed by the Honduran
Authorities in order to address the vulnerabilities of the financial system. In this context, the project
development objective is capacity-building for dealing with the current weaknesses of the banking
system and improve its soundness, which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth and poverty alleviation.
The project would achieve this objective by providing technical assistance for: (i) the design and
implementation of a banking sector consolidation program, (ii) the institutional strengthening of the
CNBS, (iii) the reform of the payments system, and (iv) the initiation of a public oversight function for
the corporate sector. A financial sector adjustment operation is planned in FY04 to complement the
proposed technical assistance operation and achieve the objectives defined in the Country Assistance
Strategy.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of 1DA support for this project comes from the IDA's international experience in the
design of financial sector reforms and assistance strategies. IDA has already provided valuable
assistance to the CNBS with a PHIRD grant. Further IDA assistance through this FSTAC would
contribute to the effective implementation of the new legal and regulatory framework and the
establishment of a mechanism to handle the capitalization and resolution of banks.
4. Description
The project consists of four components:
(i) Technical Assistance for Strengthening and Consolidation of Banking Sector:
The Bank Consolidation Program (BCP) will be developed to improve the soundness of the system and to
give the proper incentives for consolidation, which should increase efficiency and enable a return to
profitability.
(ii) Strengthening of CNBS:
Given the existence of a comprehensive IDB program, this project component will be very focused on
activities directly linked to the implementation of the Bank Consolidation Program with the notable
exception of money laundering issues.
(iii) Reform of Payment System:
The project will assist the authorities to develop a new strategy with consideration of all users' needs.
Under this component, the project will carry-out an upgrade the current systems, including the launching
of a special purpose large value payments system that will allow for the separation of large and low value
payments, as well as possibly the establishment of a securities depository function.
(iv) Initiation of public oversight function for corporate sector and improvement of creditors' rights
protection:
The suggested component will create a small oversight unit for monitoring the corporate sector
soundness, improve the legal and institutional frameworks for insolvency and creditor rights as well as
design efficient extra-judicial (or, if necessary, with minimal court intervention) mechanisms for
corporate restructuring.



4
PID
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $0.90
IBRD
IDA                        $8.10
Total Project Cost         $9 00
6. Implementation
The government agencies beneficiaries of this credit will be the CNBS and the BCH. The
implementation will be done through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established within the
CNBS.
7. Sustainability
Past attempts by Honduran authorities to address the difficulties in the domestic financial system have
clearly not yielded the expected results. This experience has convinced most of the key project
stakeholders in Honduras of the need to address the structural issues in the financial sector. Moreover,
several members of the current Honduran administration are from the banking sector themselves, in terms
of professional background, and have a clear understandinig of the nature of the problems faced by the
industry. Further, the IMF and the IDB are both working with IDA to support the government's efforts to
strengthen the Honduran financial sector. Both institutions have been involved in the discussions related
to the design and scope of the proposed project, and are providing complementary technical assistance to
address the other issues identified by the FSAP diagnostic.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience shows that governments frequently fail to prevent banking crisis for the following reasons: a
poor diagnosis of bank problems and existing losses, lack of a comprehensive strategy to deal with a
crisis, weak implementation capacity among financial authorities, unwillingness to dismantle vested
interests, inadequate legal and regulatory framework, effhe Honduras FSTAC has been designed
taking these lessons into consideration. It focuses on capacity-building to ensure that Honduran
authorities can implement the BCP and the new legal and regulatory framework to be created. Second, its
sequential approach shows a certain level of pragmatism to ensure political consensus and broad support
for the government's program. At the same time, clear milestones are set for each phase and detailed
contingency planning will be done.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : Not Applicable
10. List of factual technical documents:
N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Modibo Khane Camara
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



5
PID
Telephone (202) 473-6827
Fax: (202) 522-2106
12 For information on other project related documents contact.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/21/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
LSE_ZZJ LFEEDACK          C Lsr    =   3z   L S$H-iWCASZZ  3



