Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14583
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1561-UG)
JUNE 8, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling (U Sh)
US$1.00      =      UShs 4.00 (August 1984: appraisal)
=     UShs 1,130.15 (December 1993: Credit closing)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ESMAP        Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GSP          Global Positioning System
GSMD         Geological Survey and Mines Department in the Ministry of Lands, Mineral and
Water Resources
IOC          International Oil Company
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MLMWR        Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources
PEPD         Petroleum Exploration Promotion Department
PSA          Production Sharing Agreement
PU           Petroleum Unit
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U-S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 8, 1995
MEMORANDUJM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Uganda
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Proiect (Credit 1561-UG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Uganda: Petroleum Exploration
Promotion project (Credit 1561-UG, approved in FY85) prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
with Part II provided by the Borrower.
The project was designed to strengthen the capability of the Govemment of Uganda to
attract foreign interest in petroleum exploration in Uganda, to negotiate exploration contracts with
these companies, and to monitor and support the exploration efforts of these companies, with the
ultimate goal of finding and developing indigenous petroleum resources. The project provided
technical assistance to strengthen the Government's institutional capability to promote exploration
and to provide some limited support for geological surveys.
Project implementation was greatly delayed due to political unrest, governmental changes,
and lack of local counterpart funds. It took three years to finalize the Production Sharing Model
Contract, used for negotiating, with foreign companies. Supervision was sparse. The first
supervision mission took place more than three years after Board approval. The project completion
date was twice extended, during which time tvo and a half years passed without a supervision
mission.
The promotion effort was reasonably successful at first, but in the end the results fell
short of objectives: one of the two groups who bid for exploration rights lost interest during
negotiations, as did two of the three members of the second group during the three years it took to
agree on a contract. Unfortunately, the one company that finally did sign a contract ultimately
relinquished its concession without implementing the agreed work program, possibly because of
political unrest in nearby Zaire. A new promotion effort was undertaken in 1993, in the last year of
the project. One company has shown some interest, but has yet to make a concrete proposal. The
project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, partially a result of circumstances beyond the
control of project authorities and of the Bank. Sustainability is rated as unlikely.
A Department of Petroleum Exploration Promotion was established and 17 technical staff
trained in petroleum related issues, but its recent budget allocation is inadequate for it to continue
carrying out its promotion mandate. Institutional development is rated as substantial.
Part I of the PCR, the project from the Bank's perspective, provides little in the way of
information on project implementation. However, its recommendation, that such projects should
finance consultants to assist the borrower in negotiations with oil companies, is well founded. Part
11 by the Borrower is well done and comprehensive.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.



.7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1561-UG
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  . ................................................ i
Evaluation Summary  .                    .......................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PROSPECTIVE ................ 1
A. Project Identity ........................................ 1
B. Project Background ...................................... 1
C. Project Objectives and Description ............................ 2
Project Objectives .................................... 2
Project Components ................................... 2
D. Project Design and Organization    ............................. 3
E. Project Implementation   ................................... 3
F. Project Results .                  ........................................ 4
G. Project Sustainability  ..................................... 4
H. Bank Performance   ...................................... 4
I. Borrower Performance   .................................... 5
J. Project Relationship  ...................................... 5
K. Consulting Services   ..................................... 5
L. Project Documentation and Data  .............................. 5
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                                         ........ 6
Introduction . ............................................ 6
Project Design, Objectives and Components   ........................ 6
Implementation .                .......................................... 7
Economic Impact .                    ........................................ 8
Comments .                ............................................ 8
PART  III:  PROJECT'S  PROFILE    .................................  10
Related Bank Loans/Credits   .................................  10
Project Timetable  ........................................ 10
Comments . ........................................... 10
Loan Disbursements ........ .............................. 11
Project Implementation   .................................... 11
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs & Financing.            . ................  12
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .13
Status of Covenants.. ................  14
Use of Bank Resources.. ................  15



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1561-UG
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project in Uganda, for which Credit 1561-UG in the amount of SDR 5.2 million was approved
on February 28, 1985. The credit was closed on December 31, 1993 three years behind
schedule. It was 88 percent disbursed and the last disbursement was on May 10, 1994. The
undisbursed amount of about SDR 621,744 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division of the
Eastern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project
in August 1993, and was based, inter alia, on the President's Report; the Credit and supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1561-UG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objective of the project were: (a) assist the Government of Uganda to continue promotion
efforts to attract oil companies which have appropriate technology and sufficient capital to carry out
hydrocarbon exploration; and (b) to strengthen the Geological Survey and Mines Department in the
Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources (GSMD) in the administration and supervision of
exploration promotion, exploration and development of petroleum resources.
Implementation Experience
Project implementation had a slow start due to political unrest, management changes at the
permanent secretary and minister level, and lack of qualified personmel on exploration technology. The
first two years were basically spent on training of staff. Disbursements were slower than forecasted due
to modifications in project design as a result of the aeromagnetic survey. The survey component of the
project was particularly hard hit because of lack of funds for petrol for transport to the field (Section
E, para 7).
As a result of the above impediments, the Government requested an extension of the original
project closing date of December 31, 1990 three times for one year each in 1990, 1991 and 1992. The
Bank approved all three extensions. In the early part of 1993, Petrofina, a Belgian oil company, pulled
out of exploration activities. This once again slowed down project implementation, and the Government
requested for a fourth extension of the project closing date, beyond eight years, to December 31, 1994.
The Bank did not find a reasonable justification in the Government's request for a fourth extension, and
the extension was denied. Finally, ten percent of the credit amount was cancelled.
Project Results
On the whole, the project achieved its specific objectives by attracting an oil company such as
Petrofina into Uganda to carry out hydrocarbon exploration. Secondly, enough publicity has been
generated by the sale of the promotional reports, so that the international oil companies (IOCs) are
aware of Uganda's potential and can take it into account in developing their exploration programs.
Thirdly, the education and the skill mix of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Department (PEPD)
staff have been strengthened through the training programs. In addition to specializing in petroleum
exploration technology, PEPD staff are now computer literate and the department is now fully equipped
with modem computers, geological survey and laboratory equipments.
Sustainability



Despite the project results stated above, the economic rewards from the project cannot be
determined as they depend entirely on future industry/interest in Uganda. The project was successful
in accomplishing what it set out to do, namely: (i) interest oil companies in exploring for petroleum in
Uganda; (ii) to establish a competent Petroleum Unit in GSMD; and (iii) to train local staff in petroleum
related matters, including petroleum geology, and interpretation of geophysical survey. The training
and institutional build-up efforts will help sustain project achievements for the longer term, however
this is threatened by a reduced budgetary allocation for PEPD and by a general lack of interest of IOCs
in Uganda (Section G, para 12).
Findings and Lessons Learned
This project demonstrates that a comprehensive technical report setting out all of the latest
geological, geophysical and drilling data in the country, coupled with a well thought out legal and fiscal
framework can produce a change in the oil industry's perception of the hydrocarbon potential of a
country. It is very important that, early in the project implementation stage, experienced consultants
should be selected to assist the borrower in negotiations with the oil companies.
The principal lesson learned is that the Bank should be more forceful in expediting project
implementation when Government authorities are moving too slowly, and be more flexible in fielding
supervision missions, specially when problems have arisen (Section H, para 14).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1561-UG
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name             :     Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
Credit Number                  CR 1561-UG
RVP Unit                 .     Africa Region
Country                  :     Republic of Uganda
Sector                   :     Energy
Subsector               :      Petroleum
B. Project Background
1.    Sector Development Objectives. (At time of project appraisal) The Government's goal was to
rehabilitate the productive sector which was in ruins when the military regime was overthrown in 1979.
In this context, the main objective of the Government in the energy sector, was to increase the supply
of energy to help sustain economic recovery and to curb excessive demands on scarce foreign exchange
resources for energy purchases.
2.    Policy Context. The main sectoral issues were, inter alia: (a) high cost of petroleum imports;
(b) distortions in retail prices of petroleum products; (c) relatively low efficiency in the use of petroleum
products and fuelwood; and (d) insufficient supply of fuelwood. Energy use was primarily based on
fuelwood, electricity and petroleum. No petroleum or gas has been discovered, but the government was
supporting the identification of prospective areas and promotion to oil companies for exploration.
Uganda imports all of its petroleum requirements in the form of finished products because the country
has no refinery. Some products are imported directly from the Middle East and some after refming at
the Mombasa, Kenya refinery. Petroleum products are transported from Mombasa to Nairobi by
pipeline and on to Kampala by rail or road (more than 90% were transported by road in 1982 compared
to only 20% in the early 1970s). In 1983, the transport sector accounted for about 74% of consumption
of petroleum products while the industrial and domestic sectors consumed 15% and 11 % respectively.
In this context, the Govermnent intended to use Uganda's abundant hydroelectric potential. It also
intended to dealing with the heavy burden of the oil import bill through pricing, energy conservation
and, with a long term view, promotion of prospective acreage for exploration.
3.    Linkages Between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Objectives. The Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project was designed to help relieve expected bottlenecks in energy supply in support of
economic recovery as well as to provide a potential for foreign exchange earnings. Although, the
project was successful in attracting international oil exploration companies, local production of oil in
the longer term does not now seem a very likely goal.



2
C. Project Objectives and Description
4.    Project Objectives. The project was designed to:
(a)   assist the Government of Uganda to continue promotion efforts to attract oil
companies which have appropriate technology and sufficient capital to carry out
hydrocarbon exploration;
(b)   to strengthen the Geological Survey and Mines Department in the Ministry
of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources (GSMD) in the administration and
supervision of exploration promotion, exploration and development of
petroleum resources.
5.    Proiect Components. The project included the following components:
(a)    Petroleum Exploration Promotion to assist:
(i)   in  preparing  promotional reports  and
documents on national petroleum potential
for sale to interested parties;
(ii)   in defining and preparing an exploration
strategy and carrying out a promotion
meeting, as appropriate; and
(iii) in evaluating proposals of, and preparing
discussions of proposals with interested
parties.
(b)   Surveys (as amended on October 11, 1991), including a geophysical survey, geologic
fieldwork, as appropriate, and geothermal and photogeologic studies.
(c)    Training of local staff in petroleum related matters, including petroleum geology and
interpretation of geophysical survey, through attendance at seminars and special training
with petroleum engineering or exploration firms.
(d)   Rehabilitation of the GSMD to include facilities (transport vehicles and office and
laboratory equipment) to enable the Department to provide necessary support to
exploration companies and to carry on its own work.
(e)    Project Administration for carrying out audits of the project accounts and to establish
contacts with oil industry representatives.



3
D. Project Design and Organization
6.     The project was first identified by the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program
which completed a report entitled Uganda: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (No. 1453-UG) in
July 1983. To help finance the cost of initiating petroleum exploration promotion, including the
aeromagnetic survey and equipment for GSMD, the Association agreed to the government's request to
provide US$383,000 in 1983 under the First Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1077-UG of 1981 for
US$8 million). The Association also agreed to provide a further US$141,000 under the Second
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1434-UG of 1984 for US$15.0 million) to finance continued
efforts. The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project was appraised in August 1984. The efforts under
the First and Second Technical Assistance Projects included the government's cost of the promotion
meeting and consultants' services for evaluation of bids, preparation of a strategy proposal and position
papers in preparation for discussions with oil companies, until the project became effective in mid-1985.
The GSMD prepared the project with the assistance of consultants and in consultation with the
Association.
E. Project Implementation
7.    In the early years of project implementation, political unrest impeded progress.  Random
violence made it virtually impossible to travel to the western part of the country which hampered the
geological and geophysical field work program. In addition, project continuity was interrupted by
multiple senior management changes at the permanent secretary and minister level. Key staff members
of the Petroleum Exploration and Promotion Department (PEPD) were engaged in nearly four years of
negotiations with Petrofina. These protracted negotiations, although ultimately successful, diverted time
and focus away from the project. Modifications in project design also contributed to the slower than
forecast disbursements. At the time of appraisal, Lake Victoria was considered a prospective area and
funds were earmarked for seismic and gravity work. However, as a result of the aeromagnetic survey
and data obtained from the Seismic crew of the Duke University under Project Probe, it was learned
that Lake Victoria was nonprospective and project funds planned for seismic and gravity work on the
Lake were not spent. Project implementation was also hampered by a shortage of recurrent finance,
especially fuel, vehicle maintenance and field allowances. The survey component of the project was
particularly hard hit because of lack of funds for petrol for transport to the field. In addition, when the
project was first initiated, Uganda had no qualified personnel in petroleum exploration technology, so
the first two years were basically spent on the training of staff.
8.    As a result of the above impediments, the Government requested an extension of the original
project closing date of December 31, 1990 three times for one year each in 1990, 1991 and 1992. The
Bank approved all three extensions. However, in the early part of 1993, Petrofina, the Belgian oil
company holding a contract in the Western blocks in Uganda, decided to relinquish its acreage by
failing to request renewal of its exploration license. This unfortunate action of Petrofina, once again
slowed down project implementation, and the Govermment requested for a fourth extension of the project
closing date, beyond eight years, to December 31, 1994. The Bank did not find that the Government's
request for a fourth extension was justified, and the extension was denied. [Finally, ten percent of the
credit amount was cancelled.



4
F. Project Results
9.    On the whole, the project achieved its specific objectives by attracting an oil company to Uganda
to carry out hydrocarbon exploration. Although the relationship between the Government and Petrofina
went sour during the final months of the project implementation, the Government still hopes that this
problem can be resolved. Secondly, enough publicity has been generated by the sale of the promotional
reports, so that the international oil companies (IOCs) are aware of Uganda's potential and can take it
into account in developing their exploration programs. Thirdly, the education and the skill mix of the
PEPD staff have been strengthened through the training programs. In addition to specializing in
petroleum exploration technology, PEPD staff are now computer literate and the department is fully
equipped with modem computers, geological survey and laboratory equipments.
10.   During the course of the project and as a result of the project, the following companies were
involved in Uganda:
(a)   A Consortium of Shell, Exxon and Petrofina: Shell and Exxon pulled out
of the consortium. Petrofina ultimately withdrew.
(b)   TOTAL: withdrew its bids during the course of negotiations.
11.   Lessons Learned. This project demonstrates that a comprehensive technical report setting out all
of the latest geological, geophysical and drilling data in the country, coupled with a well thought out
legal and fiscal framework can produce a change in the oil industry's perception of the hydrocarbon
potential of a country.
G. Project Sustainability
12.   Despite the benefits stated above, the economic rewards from the project cannot be determined
as they depend entirely on future industry interest in Uganda. During the final supervision mission, it
was noted that the Government budget allocation for PEPD was inadequate to carry out the activities
of the department when the project closes. Also, given the current prospects in Eastern Europe, which
is attracting oil companies to explore for petroleum, the likelihood of IOC interest in Uganda is not
great in the near future.
H. Bank Performance
13.   The World Bank and members of the project team were helpful in inspiring enthusiasm amongst
GSMD personnel. The Bank was always prepared to devote human resources to solve problems and
assist GSMD, and, later PEPD, in supervising the project. However, the Bank could have been more
forceful in encouraging PEPD to speed up negotiations with Petrofina and avoid delays. The Bank also
could have been more perceptive in sensing the type of concession agreement needed and could have
been better prepared to assist in the preparation of the Production Sharing Agreement (PSA) with
Petrofina. Also in the later stages of the project, internal Bank constraints delayed project supervision -
-there was a 31 month hiatus between the penultimate and final supervision missions.



5
14.   Lessons Learned. The principal lessons learned with implications for other projects are: (a) the
Bank should be more forceful in expediting project implementation when Government authorities are
moving too slowly and, if necessary, provide support through supervision missions and technical
assistance to help seek solutions; and (b) supervision missions should be fielded at timely intervals to
help prevent problems or reduce the severity of their impact.
I. Borrower Performance
15.   The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and GSMD reacted very quickly during the period when the
project was being prepared and appraised; however, during the phase of negotiations with oil
companies, the MOF and other government entities should have been more persistent in concluding
contracts with oil companies. It took nearly four years for an agreement to be signed with an oil
company after the first promotional meeting. The provision to the Government of additional expert
assistance in these negotiations might have facilitated their conclusion. The PEPD management style
could have been also improved by delegating more authority to junior staff, which could have speeded
up the accounting and the purchasing process. The Government did not provide the financial support
to the project as originally envisaged in the Credit Agreement. The borrower's inadequate allocation
of funds for the project and the lack of incentives or field allowances to the PEPD staff hampered
project implementation.
16.   As summarized below, the borrower's compliance with covenants was satisfactory although with
delays. Also the borrower's speed up in performance during the final months before the closing date
clearly shows how far PEPD staff capacity has developed. This was the first petroleum exploration
promotion project and PEPD staff were new to the Bank's operations. With the experience gained from
this project, PEPD staff have acquired the know how and facilitates to maintain the effort to attract
IOC's interest, provided that resources are made available for this.
J. Project Relationship
17.   Relations between IDA and MLMWR/GSMD/PEPD and MOF as well as with consultants, were
constructive and usually satisfactory.
K. Consulting Services
18.   Overall the performance of consultants was found to be generally satisfactory. However, it is
very important that, early in the project implementation stage, experienced consultants should be
selected to assist the borrower in negotiations with the oil companies.
L. Project Documentation and Data
19.   Bank supervision and back-to-office reports were satisfactory. Between missions, follow-up
letters, telexes and faxes on issues that needed to be addressed were frequent.



6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 1561-UG
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PREPARED BY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT OF UGANDA
Introduction
20.   A credit of SDR 5.2 million was approved in May 1985 for Petroleum Exploration Promotion
in Uganda. The project was initiated in support of Government policy of exploring and developing the
petroleum resources of the country.
21.   The strategy of executing the policy was to attract oil companies to invest risk capital in
exploration since government did not have the necessary financing to carry out the investment. The
major setback however in implementing the policy had been government's uncertainty on how to
proceed in view of the government's lack of exposure to the oil industry, lack of trained manpower in
petroleum exploration technology and legislation, lack of support facilities like laboratories, field and
laboratory equipment as well as transport.
Project Design. Objectives and Components
22.   Given the above background, the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project was therefore
designed to accomplish the following:
(i)   the promotion of hydrocarbon exploration in Uganda by the oil industry
and
(ii)  the strengthening and capacity building of the Government institution
charged with hydrocarbon exploration and development.
In order to accomplish the above objectives, the following components were put in the project:
petroleum exploration promotion
surveys
training
rehabilitation of the Geological Survey and Mines (GSMD) the institution
which was charged with hydrocarbon exploration
project administration



7
Implementation
23.   First Promotional Round: Previously, no exploration areas and blocks had been demarcated in
Uganda. During the early years of the project, using the available geological and geophysical data,
three exploration areas covering the Albertine Graben were defined.
24.   In 1988, a Production Sharing Model Contract was finalized and this formed the basis of the
negotiation between Govermnent and International Oil Companies.  Initially, two groups of oil
companies presented bids to be granted exploration rights. These were a Consortium of Shell, Exxon
and Petrofina on one hand and TOTAL on the other. For reasons which were not well understood,
Shell and Exxon withdrew from the consortium and TOTAL also withdrew its bid during the course
of negotiations. Consequently, negotiations were conducted between Government and Petrofina and in
March 1991, a Production Sharing Agreement for Petroleum Exploration, Development and Production
was concluded with Final Exploration Uganda b.v. a subsidiary of Petrofma S.A.
25.   During the first six months of the Exploration Agreement, Final opened up an office in Kampala,
recruited staff and started to execute reconnaissance geological work. Alongside, Final invited seismic
contractors to bid for a seismic survey that had been agreed to in the work program.
26.   Final however, did not execute the agreed work program in the two years The company gave
some financial and administrative reasons like the bids which were returned by seismic contractors were
higher than the planned budget. Secondly Final also indicated that the insecurity in Zaire had disrupted
their global activities. Efforts by government to review the terms and conditions of the contract in order
to accommodate Final's problems were not welcome and consequently, Final's exploration rights lapsed
with the company not fulfilling its contractual obligations.
27.   Second Promotion Round: With the departure of Petrofina from the exploration scene in the
country, a lot of efforts were put on attracting investors in 1993. Promotional packages were prepared
using the reprocessed aeromagnetic data and the newly acquired gravity and ground magnetic data as
well as the geochemical analysis of seepages. The promotional packages were disseminated to
International Oil Companies. Follow-up meetings were held with seven oil companies. Four companies
showed good interest. As of now, one company namely Hunt United Corporation has been in the
country to assess the field conditions and have promised to raise a proposal.
Surveys
28.   Because of the need to acquire a sound data base on the petroleum potential of the country, the
project conducted several geophysical and geological surveys in Lake Albert basin, Lake Wamala basin
and in the Central and North-Eastern parts of Uganda. Gravity and magnetic surveys which were
carried out both onshore and offshore (gravity only) of Lake Albert basin identified several structures
which have potential for generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons. Systematic geologic mapping
in the same area have shown the presence of black shales exposed on the surface as well as additional
seepage. Geological mapping conducted in Lake Wamala did not show any significant source rocks or
reservoir. An aeromagnetic survey conducted in Central and North-Eastern part of the country
identified four possible basins which require ground follow-up to ascertain their petroleum potential.



8
Training
29.   It will be recalled that when the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project was initiated, there
were no Ugandan personnel specialized in oil exploration technology. The original staff were drawn
from the mineral sector. In order to facilitate exploration operations in the country, training of local
personnel was considered a priority area. As a result, the project has trained 15 earth scientists in
Petroleum Geology and Geophysics, 8 Technicians, 2 Accountants, 1 Lawyer, 1 Economist and 10
support personnel.
Equipment and Materials
30.   The project has procured significant field, laboratory and office equipment plus vehicles. The
notable equipment include gravity meters, Global Positioning System (GPS) receivers, computers,
plotter and digitizing system, magnetometers, gas chromatography unit, Theodolites and EDMs,
laboratory accessories and chemicals.
Economic Impact
Employment
31.   During the project life time, a total of 57 people were employed on full time basis. This
included the professional staff, technicians, accounts staff, secretaries, drivers and office attendants.
In addition, 60 laborers were employed on casual basis in the field.
Supply of Local Goods and Services
32.   Two important capital development sub projects involving the supply of local goods and services
were undertaken. These involved the rehabilitation of laboratories and the documentation centre of the
GSMD and the construction of Core Store, laboratories and offices for PEPD. Both projects were
executed by local contractors and the materials used were largely secured locally ex factory or ex
quarry.
33.   The project has greatly improved the land value at the Geological Survey and Mines/Petroleum
Exploration and Production Departmental yard by putting up a new office block which consists, of
laboratories and a core store. Besides, an old abandoned store has now been refurbished into office
space and stores. The entire parking areas has been made into permanent ground. The whole area is
now a pleasant environment to work in.
Comments
34.   Borrower's Performance:  Initially, boffower's performance was low due to inadequate
counterpart funding. Some project components like rehabilitation and civil works which were supposed
to be funded by counterpart funding could not take off in time. Otherwise, most of the project
components which were funded by credit funds were well executed by the borrower. Given the initial
difficulties like lack of trained personnel and other elements like the civil strife; and reflecting on what
the project has achieved, borrower's performance can be rated as excellent.



9
35.   Bank's Performance: The Bank's performance on the project was generally satisfactory. Several
supervision visits were made by the Bank staff which resulted in some modifications of project to suit
the local conditions. In that regard, the project personnel were facilitated in the execution of surveys
and it was also possible to develop the infrastructure within the Department.
36.   The Relationship Between the Borrower and the Bank: No contentious issues developed between
the two parties during project execution. The relationship was very satisfactory.



10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 1561-UG
PART III: PROJECT'S PROFILE
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits None.
2.    Project Timetable
Item                     Date              Date                Date
Planned           Revised             Actual
First mention in files                                               December, 31 1982
Identification                                                      July, 1984
Preparation                                                         July, 1984
Appraisal Mission                                                    August, 1984
Credit Negotiations             January 1, 1985                      February 7, 1985
Credit Approval                                                     March 19, 1985
Credit Signature                                                    May 30, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                                                August 29, 1985
Credit Closing                  December 31,90    December 18,92   December 31, 1993
Comments: For reasons stated above, the credit closing date was extended three times one year each
from December 31, 1990 to December 31, 1991; December 31, 1991 to December 31,1992 and
December 31, 1992 to December 31, 1993.



11
3.     Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90       FY91    FY92   FY93
Appraisal Estimate        1.00      2.20      3.40      4.40        4.90       5.10       -       -
Actual(cumulated)          .4         0         .7       1.0        1.7         2.1      4.0     5.8
Actual as % of estimate    40.00%   0.00%     8.82%     6.82%      14.29%     7.84%
Date of Final Disbursement: May 10, 1994
4.                                        Proiect Imvlementation
Indicators                                         Appraisal Estimate           Actual
A. Provision of ExWloration Licenses
Closing Date, Submission of Bids for Licenses      April 15, 1985               n.al/
Completion of Bid Evaluation                       May 1, 1985                  n.a
Signing of Licenses                                September 1, 1985            n.a
Evaluation and Renegotiation of Licenses           September 1, 1989            n.a
B. Execution of Lake Victoria Survey
Project Probe Decision on Seismic Survey           May 1985                     n.a
Completion Seismic Survey                          September 1985               n.a
C. Second Promotion Ex0loration Meeting            September 1986               n.a
D. Closinz date                                    December 31, 1990            December
31, 1993
1/     Not available - borrower did not submit information for completion of this section.



12
5.
Project Costs and Financing
(US$ MILLION)
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate               Actual2/
1. Technical assistance              Local      Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign       Total
Exploration consultants             .18          .89       1.07       -                      -
Promotion report/meeting             .03         .30       .33        -
Rehabilitation of GSMD               .08         .40        .48       -                      -
Project administration             .27          .12        .39        -
Training                            .03         .30        .33        -
Subtotal                             0.59         2.01       2.60
2. Surveys
Geophysical survey                  .10          .50        .60        -
Geological data gathering           .10          .10        .20        -
Photogeology                        .02          .10        .12
Subtotal                             0.22         0.70       0.92
Baseline Cost                        0.81         2.71       3.52
3. Contingencies
Physical                           .11          .40        .51
Prices                              1.18        .89        2.07
Total Contingencies                   1.29        1.29       2.58
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    2.10        4.00       6.10       -           -          4.6
B. Financing Plan                    Local       Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign      Total
Source
IDA                                 1.10        4.00       5.10       -          -
Government                          1.00         -         1.00       -
Total                              2.10        4.00       6.10       -         4.6          4.6
2/     Borrower did not supply the required information despite repeated request. (See Annex 1 for the
actual cost breakdown by Schedule I Category.)



13
6.                                    Project Results
a.    Direct Benefits
The project has been most successful in developing the institutional and technical capacity of the
PEPD and in generating some interest among the international oil companies to engage in petroleum
exploration activities on a limited scale.
b.    Economic Impact
Aside from the above in 6a, the greatest impact on the economy would be a future discovery of
oil to satisfy domestic petroleum consumption and the possible of sales of petroleum products to
neighboring countries. In addition to this, would be the Government's income derived from the
operations of oil companies in producing and selling their oil and products.



14
7.                                         Status of Covenants
SECTION                             COVENANT                            STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
No of Credit
Agreement
3.01 (a)      The Borrower shall carry out the Project, as set forth in  Met
Schedule 2, through the Ministry of Lands Mineral Water
Resources (MLMWR) with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
petroleum industry practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, and services and other resources
required for the project                                                               l
3.01 (b)      The Borrower shall carry out the project in accordance with    Met with delays
the Implementation Program set forth in schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
3.02          Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement   Met
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
4.02 (a)      The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, separate accounts  Met
showing all proceeds from the sale of reports or information
produced or obtained under the Project; and
(b) make available funds for financing further studies,
surveys or exploration for hydrocarbons in Uganda or for the
strengthening of GSMD, if justified, up to an amount at least
equivalent to the aggregate sale proceeds referred to in  N/A
paragraph (a) of this section.



15
8.                                         Use of Bank Resources
A.     Staff Inputs by Stage of Proiect Cycle in Staff Weeks
Actual
Preparation            21.4
Appraisal              20.8
Negotiations            2.4
Supervision            91.9
Other                   3.5
TOTAL                  140.0
B.     Missions
Stage of          Month/   No of         Days in    Specialists Represented       Perfor-  Types of
Project Cycle     Year      Persons      Field                                    mance   Problem
Rating
Preparation       1/83      2            3          Geophysicists                          None
Geologist
Preappraisal      8/83      3            13         Geophysicists                          None
Geologist Economist
Appraisal         8/84      3            3           Geophysicists,                        None
Geologist
Economist
Negotiations      2/85      4            2          Loan Officer                           None
Financial Analyst
Counsel
Disbursement Officer
Supervision       6/88      1            7          Geologist                     1        None
Supervision       5/89       1           4           Geologist                    1        Environment
al/Financial
Supervision       8/89       1           8           Geologist                    1        Environment
al/Manageme
nt
Supervision       4/90      1            2          Geologist                     1        Management
Supervision       2/91      2            7          Financial Analyst             1        Management
--                              Geologist
Supervision       9/93      2            9          Industrial Economist          1        Management
Geologist



16
ANNEX I
Category                Description                  Amount Disbursed
SDR
1        Goods                                      1,827,288.02
2         Consultants Services                      1,189,667.92
3         Geophysical Surveys                        561,956.26
4        Trainig                                     456,618.91
5         Project Administration                     146,091.57
6         Revolving Fund Holding Category               None
7        Civil Works                                 354,051.15
Total Disbursed                           4,578,255.97
Amount Cancelled                           621,744.03
Total IDA Credit                          5,200,000.00






IMA G ING
Report No:        14583
Type: PCR



