Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMIcAL USE ONLY
- ~~CJ2 /6W-/- v
Rqog No. P-3919-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN  ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 5.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUGANDA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
February 28, 1985
This domment bas  resticted distibutin and msy be used by recipients oly in the performance of
their ocia duteL Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed withou World Bank authofnzion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1985)
Currency Unit - Uganda shilling (USh)
USh 1.00 = USS0.002
USS 1.00 - USh 550 1/
USS 1.00 = SDR 1.026
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFTC               Commonwealth Fund for Technical Assistance
EAC                East African Community
ESMAP              Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (of United
Nations Development ProgrammejiWorld Bank)
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
GSHD               Geological Survey and Mines Department in the Ministry
of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources
ICA                International Coffee Agreement
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IFC                International Finance Corporation
DIF                International Monetary Fund
LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
LIT                Limited International Tendering
MI4MWR             Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources
MPED               Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
MPPT               Ministry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications
OPEC               Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PU                 Petroleum Unit
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
/1 The exchange rate of US$1 = USh 395, which was in force during
appraisal in August 1984, has been used in the calculations for the
proposed project.



UGANDA              FtOI OFCIAL USE ONLY
PZTROLEUK EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Suoary
Borrower:                 The Republic of Uganda
Beneficiary:              Ministry of Lands, Mineral .nd Water Resources
*                            )~~O~
Amount:                   SDR 5.2 million (US$5.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The project would support the Government's
efforts to attract oil companies to explore for
hydrocarbons. 't also would strengthen the
capability of the Geological Survey and Mines
Department (GSND) in the MI[MR to administer and
supervise exploration promotion, exploration, and
development of petroleum resources. The project
includes two main components. The technical
assistance component would support: (a)
petroleum exploration consultants who would
provide a wide range of services; (b) a report/
meeting to promote prospective acreage to oil
companies; (c) rehabilitatio2 of the GSMD; (d)
project administration, including auditing of
project accounts and travel related to petroleum
exploration promotion; and (e) training abroad of
Ugandan staff in petroleum geology and
interpretation of geophysical surveys. The
survey component would include: (a) geophysical
surveys; (b) geologic field work, as appropriate,
as well as geochemical studies; and (c)
photogeologic studies.
Project Benefits:         The project would assist Ugand" in attracting oil
companies to take exploration permits in an area
where there has been little exploration
activity. If the search for hydrocarbons is
successful, the project would contribute to
meeting part of Uganda's petroleum needs from
domestic sources and could generate export
earnings.
Risks:                    The main risk is that the surveys might not
attract widespread oil company interest. Given
the favorable geological interpretations and the
positive industry reactivuis at the first
promotion meeting in November 1984, this risk is
reasonable. In addition, there are risks that
relations with neighboring c&untries could
decline, thereby reducing the attractiveness of
promoted border areas, and that secu-ity in the
Thi document has a restrctd distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may n othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



-i -
project areas could deteriorate. Considering the
present collaboration between Uganda and its
neighbors and the improvements in security in the
cxntry, these risks also are reasonable.
Estlated Project
Costs:    Com        onent                        Local Foreign  Total
- (USS mIllion)-
Technical assistance
Exploration consultants         .18    .89    1.07
Promotion report/meeting        .03    .30     .33
Rehabilitation of GS1D          .0,   .40      .48
Project administration          .27    .12     .39
Training                        .03    .30     .33
Subtotal                     .59   2.01    2.60
Surveys
Geophysical survey             .10    .50      .60
Geological data gathering      .10    .10      .20
Photogeology                    .02    .10     .12
Subtotal                     .22    .70      .92
Base Cost                      .81   2.71    3.52
Contingencies
Physical                       .11    .4J      .51
Price                         1.18    .89    2.07
Total                         2.10   4.00    6.10 /a
Financing Plan:   Source                          Local  Foreign  Total
- s(US$ minlion)
IDA                             1.10   4.00    5.10
Government                       1.00    -      1.00
Total                         2.10   4.00    6.10
-   -~~~~~~~
Estimated
Disbursements:                IDA  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
(USS$ million)
Annual          1.00   1.20  1.20  1.00   .50   .20
Cumulative      1.00   2.20  3.40  4.40  4.90  5.10
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           None.
Mp:                IBRD 18617.
/a The project would be exempt from duties and taxes.



REPORT AND 11flCOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recovmendation .-n a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for SDR 5.2 million (US$S5.1
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a petroleum
exploration promotion project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in May-June 1983 and its
report, entitled -Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum- (Report No. 4733-UG
dated December 9, 1983), has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
A summary of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages:
Ca) a favorable climate, fertile soils, and rich mineral base for
economic development;
(b) an established indigenous smallholder sector providing a widening
range of export crops and an ample domestic food supply;
Cc) a small but rapidly growing industrial sector, contributing
exports of copper and textiles;
Cd) a well-developed transport system, including facilities shared
with Kenya and Tanzania under the East African Community (EAC);
(e) an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity, with substantial scope
for further development on the Victoria Nile; and
(f) one of the most advanced education systems in Eastern Africa.
The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic
potential of the country. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 4.8%
per annum from 1963 to 1970, implying an increase in per capita terms of at
least 2% per annum. The country also was able to maintain a reasonable
savings rate (averaging 13%), which permitted implementation of an
ambitious investment program without undue pressure on domestic prices or
the balance of payments. Although Uganda's export volumes grew slowly,
export earnings were more than adequate to cover import requirements and
the country maintained a current account surplus in most years. The
J   Part I is essentially the same as the one included in the President's
Report for the Agricultural Development Project (P-3912-UG) of
December 11, 1984.



-2-
Goverument's budgetary position also was sound. Revenue increased faster
than recurrent expenditure during the latter half of the 1960. and,
together with non-bank domestic borrowing, helped finance a significant
proportion of development outlays.
4.        However, after the coup in 1971, the situation quickly deterio-
rated. Under the military regime, many skilled personnel left the country,
the parastatal sector became bloated with the addition of many abandoned or
confiscated industries, and professional standards within the administra-
tion eroded. Cn top of these largely self-imposed problems, the Ugandan
econom was shaken by a series of external shocks: the sharp rise in
petroleum prices after 1973, the breakup of the EAC in 1977, and the damage
and looting which occurred during the 1978-79 war. As a result of these
developments, real GDP stagnated through 1977 and then fell over the next
three years. Import levels had to be cut by 501 from 1970 to 1979 due to
lower export volumes, worsening terms of trade (except during the coffee
boom years of 1977-79), and dwindling aid receipts. The Goverment-s
budgetaxy position also became increasingly untenable as the revenue base
was umdermined and expenditure control collapsed. The resultant deficit
was financed increasingly by bank borrowing, leading to monetary expansion
and price inflation (averaging 74% per annum from 1977 to 1979). Not
surprisingly, critical shortages developed and a large share of economic
activity was diverted to the pervasive parallel market system called
magendo .
Recent Developments
5.        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ugandan economy was in ruins. Initial efforts to promote recovery were
constrained by an unstable political situation, administrative weaknesses,
and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. As a result, many of the
adverse trends evident during the 1970s continued through 1980. In partic-
ular, real GDP continued to decline while the inflation rate rose above
100l per annum. Then, in mid-1981, the Government made a dramatic break
with the past by announcing a major devaluation of the Uganda shilling and
related price adjustments. Through a series of financial programs, sup-
ported by assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other
donors, further policy reforms have been introduced over the past three
years (see paragraphs 7-9). As a result, economic performance has shown a
marked improvement, despite the negative impact of internal security
problems and adverse world economic conditions. The difficult security
situation is explained by the disintegration of law and order during the
1970s and the need to discipline the security forces after the 1978-79
war. Although most of the country is now at peace, periodic incidents
continue to occur, especially around Kampala, disrupting production and
transport activities and diverting budgetary resources to security-related
activities. As regards the world economy, although Uganda-s terms of trade
improved after 1981, the index remains at less than half the peaks achieved
during the-coffee boom years of 1977-79 and only 657 of the level in 1970.
Equally important, Uganda-s export earnings are constrained by quotas on
coffee sales imposed under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA).
Uganda-s coffee production substantially exceeds its quota limit, and
stocks equivalent to 70 of quota exports have currently accumulated. The



-3-
combination of economic recession and tighter fiscal policies in developed
countries also has affected the availability of external assistance. For
Uganda, aid mobilization has been made particularly difficult by the legacy
of international i3olation Imposed during the 1970s and continuing concern
overseas about the security situation.
6.        Economic recovery is evident in a number of indicators:
(a) Since 1980, GDP has grown on average 1- 6% per annum.
Recovery was initially concentrated in subsistence
agriculture, but growth has subsequently been particularly
strong in monetary agriculture (12% average annual growth
1982-84). Industry has been slower to recover.
(b) Export volumes have risen by an estimated 41% from 1980 to
1983, and would have recovered even more without the coffee
quDta constraint. This export growth, together with better
utilization of aid, has helped to finance a much-needed
expansion of import volumes since 1981.
Cc) Significant budgetary improvements, including the
establishment by FY 1982/83 of a healthy recurrent surplus,
a major reduction in the dependence of budgetary financing
on bank borrowing, and no less than a fiftyfold increase in
recurrent revenues since FY 1980/81. These improvements
have been absolutely central to bringing down the rate of
inflation from over 100% in 1981 to about 30% in 1983.
Recent developments indicate, however, some acceleration of
inflation due to weakening of fiscal and monetary
discipline.
Despite this progress, overall levels of economic activity and trade remain
substantially below peak levels achieved in the early 1970s. As a result,
per capita Gross National Product (GNP) still is only two-thirds of the
1970 level.
*        The Government-s Policies and Programs
7.        The Government-s primary goal is to restore law and order, a
-        basic prerequisite for future economic progress.  Second to this is the
goal of rehabilitating the productive sectors. The first step toward
rehabilitation was the introduction of the financial program for
FY 1981/82, which has been followed by similar programs for FY 1982/83 and
FY 1983/84. These programs have been supported by three stand-by
arrangements with ;he IMF (for a total of SDR 320 million), drawings from
the First and Second Reconstruction Credits (providing US$145 million after
June 1981) made available by the Association, and assistance from other
donors. Major actions taken by the Government are summarized below:
(a)  The official exchange rate was devalued from under USh 8 to
USh 78 per US dollar in June 1981, and subsequently steadily
depreciated to about USh 500 per US dollar in November
1984. In August 1982, the Government opened a second window



4
where foreign exchange was more freely traded in an auction
system. After the introduction of this dual exchange rate
system, the two rates steadily depreciated (although the
Window II rate appreciated for a while) and the differential
between them narrowed. These adjustments led to a
substantial reduction in the premium and importance of the
unofficial market for foreign exchange. In June 1984, the
two windows were merged. Foreign exchange now is made
available through a weekly auction, with the rate determined
by the marginal bid.
(b)  The initial devaluation in June 1981 was accompanied by the
removal of most price controls. The major exceptions were
for producer prices of traditional export crops, retail
prices of petroleum products, and utility tariffs. For
these controlled items, significant price increases were
introduced.   Petroleum prices were increased by more than
twentyfold after December 1980 to reflect fully the impact
of window-one exchange rate changes. Producer price
adjustments were more moderate, with increases of about
tenfold for most major export crops. However, these
increases are still higher than general inflation and net
returns from the production of all major export crops are
now posJtiv2. Producer prices are adjusted on a regular
basis to ensure that net returns to the farmer remain
positive.
(c)  Various measures have been introduced to improve monetary
and fiscal discipline. To help control the demand for money
and to allocate credit, most interest rates were nearly
doubled over the past two years (although they remain
negative in real terms). As part of its obligations under
the IMF stand-by arrangements, the Government agreed to and
met ceilings oa tbs growth of net domestic credit and net
credit to the Government. On the fiscal side, a number of
measures were taken in mid-1981 to streamline and improve
the elasticity of the taxation strtcture.  Strict control
also has been mwintained over cash releases to ministries,
although this has sometimes been at the cost of underfunding
critical functions and accumulating domestic arrears.
8.        The Government's original Recovery Programme, which included
proposals for policy and institutional reform as well as a project-specific
investment plan for FY 1982/83 and FY 1983/84, was presented to the meeting
of the Consultative Group in May 1982. All participants at the meeting
commended the Government's commitment, as reflected in the lecm-ery
Programme, to prioritize rehabilitation activities and to restrict overall
resource allocations to realistic levels. Following a progress review, the
Government published a Revised Recovery Programme in October 1983. This
updared document takes account of resource constraints and implementation
problems encountered over FY 1983/84 and incorporates FY 1984/85 fully into
the investment plan. However, the broad objectives and strategy remain the
same, focusing on short-term revival of the productive sectors. Priority



-5-
in all sectors is given to rehabilitation and improved utilization of
existing capacity. Although provision has now been made for preparatory
work on a number of new projects, most projects do not involve large
expenditures through FY 1984/85 and are essential to maintain momentum in
later years. The Revised Recovery Programme also includes a number of
innovations and changes designed to make It more effective for decision
making and to facilitate project implementation. This Programme was
discussed at a further meeting of the Consultative Group in January 1984,
at which participants again welcomed the strategy and priorities as well as
the implied level and composition of Uganda's aid requirements for 1984 and
1985 (see paragraph 16).
I.        A decisive start in the ptocess of economic recovery has now been
made. The basic priority for further action is to strengt'hen the adminis-
trative framework for implementing the Government's programs, for carrying
them forward, and for making them more effective. In some cases,
strengthening means rebuilding what already existed in the early 1970s; in
others, it means developing new institutions and policies relevant to
today's realities. The administrative weaknesses faced by Uganda (and many
other Sub-Saharan African countries) are inherently difficult to tackle and
progress will be slow. However, the magnitude of the task ahead should not
be allowed to undermine the commitment to much-needed economic reforms.
The Government has already initiated action in this area. The Report of
the Public Service Salaries Review Commission, which covers many issues
relating to the organization and operation of the civil service besides
salaries, was presented in November 1982 and is still under Government
review. The FY 1984/85 budget introduced a quantum increase in civil
service salaries, although there are indications that the Government is
having to borrow excessively from the banking system to finance this salary
increase. If inflation is to be kept under control, this borrowing will
have to be restrained. 'o facilitate recovery in the industrial sector,
the Government pas3ed the Expropriated Properties Act in February 1983 to
provide a legal basis for resolving ownership issues, and initiated a
serins of financial and accouitting studies on major parastatal
organizations. Various measures were introduced over the past two years to
improve foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing procedures.
Finally, the Agricultural Policy Committee has been established to advise
the Government on prices. marketing, and resource allocations for the
agricultural sector. The Secretariat of the Committee undertakes on a
regular basis an analysis of the production costs of the major export
crops, and makes recommendations to the Government on appropriate
adjustments to producer pri-es. Not surprisingly, given the severe erosion
of the country's productive base and infrastructure during the 1970s, much
remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be considered complete.
However, the Government's Revised Recovery Programme and evolving policies
are headed in the right direction and merit support from the international
community.
Sectoral Priorities
10.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially of exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to production of export crops, to rehabilitation of supporting



- 6
transport and communications Infrastructure, and to production of basic
consumer goods, building materials, and agricultural inputs by the
industrial sector. Other sectors, especially the social sectors, also
require urgent rehabilitation. But in the near future, rehabilitation of
these sectors must be limited to the extent of their potential contribution
to recovery.  Improvements in medical services, repair of classrooms, and
rehabilitation of urban water systems, for example, may be expected to
provide an important, if unquantifiable, incentive to producers.
11.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing the
livelihood for about 90S of the population and supplying almost all
Ugandas exports in recent years. Ugandan agriculture depends largely on
small- and medium-scale peasant farms. No attempt was ever made to
encourage expatriate settlements. Even today, large-scale estates are only
significant in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural
conditions, Uganda produces an overall food surplus in most years, although
areas like Karamoja in the northeast, which are vulnerable to drought and
depend on traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered periodic
food shortages as a result of lvw rainfall and insecurity. Rehabilitation
of agriculture is the top priority for Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all continue to grow rapidly over
the next three years (although the previous peak levels are not likely to
be reached until later in the 1980s and coffee exports will probably remain
subject to ICA qwta constraints). In addition, scope exists for expanding
non-traditional exports (e.g., hides and skins, foodstuffs, and
fertilizers) to neighboring countries. Revival of cotton and other
agricultural production would also supply some domestic industrial needs.
During the rehabilitation phase, the Government has given top priority to
improving incentives, partly through adjustments in producer prices.
Closely related is the supply of inputs, implements, spares for processing
and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the production of
surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services, including research
and extension, also will need more attention.
12.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g., textiles             I
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, the sector largely
collapsed during the 1970s. Although industrial production began a modest
recovery during 1982 and 1983, indications are that this recovery may have
halted in 1984, with many enterprises still closed and average capacity
utilization of only about 30Z. Recovery in the industrial sector has been
hampered by a number of constraints. The bulk of the sector has not yet
made the investments necessary to put their equipment in working order, due
primarily to the shortage of working capital to purchase spare parts and
equipment, foreign exchange for imported inputs, and locally-available
materials. Other constraints, such as unresolved ownership questions,
creditworthiness problems of firms, unreliable infrastructure, and poor
management also deter recovery in the sector. The Government has declared
its intention to follow a -mixed economy' strategy, with only essential
public services reserved exclusively for the public sector. In other
areas, domestic and foreign private enterprise is encouraged, either wholly
owned or in joint ventures with the Government. The Government expects to



-7-
close or sell a number of existing industrial enterprises, while the
financial viability of the remaining parastatals is to be restored through
increased tariffs, asset revaluation, and injections of new capital.
Actions initiated by the Government in this area, including the
Expropriated Properties Act and a program of financial and accounting
studies, were noted in paragraph 9.  However, the modalities for
restructuring the parastatal sector are still to be worked out fully.
13.       Ugandass transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined ear-
lier: departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and in-
adequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the EAC in 1977 had a serious effect,
especially on Uganda's access to international trade routes. As a result,
Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and aircraft and her
part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya and Tanzania. This
necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda and seriously disrupted
iaternational traffic movements while increasing their cost. Transport
was, moreover, the sector possibly most seriously affected by the war and
the widespread subsequent looting. The vehicle fleet, in particular, was
decimated. Rehabilitation of the transport system and sector institutions
thus becomes a key requirement for economic recovery.
14.       The Bank Group recently updated its earlier assessment of
Uganda-s energy sector. Energy use is primarily based on fuelwood,
electricity, and petroleum. Fuelwood is estimated to account for about 91%
of total energy and 482 of commercial energy consumption in Uganda.
Concern is, therefore, mounting that uncontrolled cutting will eventually
deplete the most accessible forest resources and lead to further soil
erosion. Preparation to undertake a forest inventory is underway, as a
precursor to rehabilitating the depleted forests. At present, Uganda's
electric generating capacity is underutilized. However, the surplus could
be quickly absorbed as the economy recovers, as substitution is made for
more expensive fuels (such as petroleum products), and as long-term export
agreements are concluded with neighboring countries. As regards petroleum,
the Government has succeeded in reducing the cost of imports in recent
*       years through the impact of higher retail prices on domestic consumption
and smuggling as well as the improvement in supply arrangements. Promotion
efforts for the exploration of petroleum resources in the Albert Rift are
underway, although local oil production remains a longer-term and uncertain
prospect.
15.       The Government endorses the goals of the International Drinking,
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade and is giving high priority to the water
and sewerage sector. The main objective for this sector is to restore
basic services through rehabilitation of existing water supply and sewerage
facilities. In addition, with the assistance of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Bank Group, an updated water sector
study/action plan is underway using various studies previously prepared by
the World Health Organization, Swedish International Development
Association, and United Nations. This study will help to improve the
Government's planning capacity in the water sector.



-8-
Aid and Debt
16.       Under the base-case scenario presented in the last Country
Economic Memorandum, Ugandas8 GDP is projected to grow by 4.7% per annum
through 1985 and 3.6t per annum over the subsequent five years. These
projections assume a steady improvement in the internal security situation
and continued progress on economic reforms. The viability of this scenario
i3 also critically dependent on the availability of foreign exchange to
finance recurrent imports and priority rehabilitation projects.  The recent             g
recovezy in export perforuance is expected to continue. However, an
important factor in this assumption is that Uganda's coffee quota will be
increased from 2.3 million bags in 1983 to 2.5 million bags in 1985.
Although Uganda's case for a higher quota is strong and a small increase
was granted recently, a further increase is not assured. The current
account deficit, in real terms, is projected to rise in 1984 and then
steadily decline over the remainder of the decade. This has major
implications for external financing requirements:
(a) Commitment levels are required to increase by an average of
5% during 1984 and 1985 to US$444 million in 1985 and then
to continue rising by about 4% per annum (below the
projected rate of international inflation).
(b) The composition of commitments is as important as the levels
themselves. Under Ugandan conditions, balance of payments
support will continue to be essential for at least the next
two to three years. However, project aid will become
increasingly important during the second half of the decade
and even has a role to play in the short term, provided it
is consistent with the rehabilitation priorities in the
Revised Recovery Programme. Technical assistance, while not
as large in dollar terms, is important to improve public
administration and to make other aid effective.
(c) The net benefit to Uganda of higher commitments could soon
be eroded if they are not provided on concessional terms.
This does not preclude the possibility of utilizing some
commercial bank loans or suppliers' credits in association
with concessional assistance, but only for selected projects
that generate additional net foreign exchange earnings to
cover fully the related debt obligations. However,
arrangements which involve prior claims on foreign exchange,
such as coffee barter deals, should be avoided.
17.       On the Ugandan side, every effort must be made to strengthen aid
coordination and administration. To this end, the Government has now
reaffirmed that formal responsibility for aid management, including signing
agreements and approving disbursements, lies with the Ministry of Finance.
To facilitate this function, an aid coordinator has been appointed at the
Permanent Secretary level and he is to be assisted by a staff of twelve.
In addition, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED) has a
vital role to play in assuring that aid mobilized is in line with the
priorities of the Revised Recovery Program and in monitoring aid



-9-
utilization and project Implementation. Therefore, appropriate staff,
facilities, and technical assistance should also be allocated to the MPED
so that these functions can be performed effectively and working level
contacts between MPED and the Ministry of Finance can be strengthened.
18.       Uganda-s external debt outstanding and disb--sed had reached an
estimted US$661 million by the end of 1983. Of this amount, 3.5% was due
to the Bank/Association (for Uganda:s notional share of EAC loans) and
13.5% to the Association alone. Fortunately for Uganda, the terms of new
aid commitments since 1979 have been highly concessionwl, with about half
being grants and the balance being loans with a grant element of 60%.
However, other debt obligations, such as war-related assistance and IMF
purchases, have helped to ralse the overall debt service ratio to around
50% during 1981-83. Under the base-case scenario in the Coumtry Economic
Ilmorandun, the debt service ratio is projected to fall back to 46X in 1984
and 31% by 1990. This, however, is still cause for concern. The down-side
risks are very real. Ugandars export structure still depends heavily on
coffee earnings, which could be constrained by further quota restrictions
and unfavorable price movements. Also, the Government may find reduction
in import requirements for security-related activities difficult. Finally,
adequate amounts of assistance on concessional terms may not be forthcoming
to support recovexy. This outlook reinforces the importance of external
debt management. Progress has been made over the past year in Improving
debt recording and an External Debt Management Office has been
established. The real priority now is to develop an appropriate borrowing
program for Uganda.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS2/
19.       Uganda joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in 1963. Between 1967 and 1971, the Association
provided seven credits to the country totalling US$48.0 million for
projects in education, roads, and agriculture (tea, tobacco, and beef
ranching). In addition, Uganda benefitted from 10 loans amounting to
US$244.8 millon for the development of comnm  services of the East African
Community and for the East African Development Bank. IFC-s first
investment in Uganda, in a textile company, was sold to the Government in
1970. The second, to help finance two lodges in the national parks, was
cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC approved new investments
in the Sugar Corporation of Uganda and in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company
in FY84 and in the Development Finance Company of Uganda in FY85. Annex II
gives further details about IFC investments in the country.
20.       Operations of the Association in Uganda were interrupted because
of the military regime from June 1971 until February 1980 (paragraphs 4 and
5). Since February 1980, the Association has provided 13 credits to Uganda
2/   Part II is essentially the same as the one included in the President-s
Report for the Agricultural Development Project (P-3912-UG) of
December 11, 1984.



- 10 -
totaUling US$473.5 million. The credits were based on a lending strategy
consistent with priorities identified in the Government's Recovery Program
and were designed to help restore the economy to a fully functioning level
through: rebabilitation of basic infrastructure and productive capacity;
strengthening of administrative, institutional, and technical capacity; and
implementation of appropriate sector policies.
21.       To wLet urgent rehabilitation needs, the Association has been
providing funds under three reconstruction credits. The first
Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 983-UG of 1980 for US$72.5 million)
included a participation of US$17.5 million by the Government of the
Netherlands (Credit No. 983-1-UG). It also was complemented by a European
Economic Community Special Action Credit (54-UG for US$20.0 million). In
addition, the Government of Canada provided a grant of CanS3.0 million and
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund made
available a program loan of US$5.0 million. Although the Reconstruction
Program originally experienced implementation delays and slow
disbursements, it now is fully disbursed. A Program Performance Audit
Report is under preparation. The Second Reconstruction Program (Credit
No. 1252-UG of 1982 for US$70.0 million) is under implementation. The
Governments of Canada and the Netherlands made grants in the amounts of
Can$5.0 million and DFL 15.0 mLllion, respectively, in supplementary
financing for the Second Program. The Third Reconstruction Program (Credit
No. 1474-UG of 1984 for US$50.0 million) became effective in November
1984. An amount of DFL 20.0 million is being provided as supplementary
financing by ,he Government of the Netherlands.
22.       The Association also has been supporting technical assistance to
key Institutions through the First Technical Assistance Project (Credit
No. 1077-UG of 1981 for US$8.0 million) and the Second Technical
Assistance Project (Credit No. 1434-UG of 1984 for US$15.0 million).
Disbursements are nearly completed for the First Project. Conmmitments are
being made more quickly for the Second Project. Although small in
financial terms, technical assistance represents an essential component of
the Association's lending strategy, both to strengthen the Government's
administrative/institutional capacity as well as to facilitate project
preparation and implementation. It also serves the vital objective of
assisting training, both directly and through upgrading of facilities.
23.       In addition, the Association has been providing rehabilitation
credits, which total US$268.0 million, for engineering related to water
supply and phosphate exploitation operations and for agricultural,
education, highway, industry, telecommunications, and water supply and
sanitation projects. These projects also include technical assistance
components. Annex II gives further details about the projects.
Implementation has been somewhat slower than expected, largely due to the
shortage of Government counterpart funds (paragraph 25).
24.       For the immediate future, operations of the Association will
remain focussed on rehabilitation projects, including the proposed Second
Power Project to be presented to the Executive Directors in FY85. In
addition, this Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project is designed to help



- 11 -
relieve expected bottlenecks in energy supply in support of economic
recovery as well as to provide a potential for foreign exchange earnings.
Operations of the Association are expected to shift gradually into
traditional projects in the agricultural, energy, industry, and transport
sectors. This shift will help support the continued recovery of the
economy and its further development.  The Association intends to coatinue
to provide technical assistance in these sectoral projects.
25.       Disburse_ents from the Association to Uganda grew from US$1.2
million in FY80 to US$41.2 million in FY84. A comparison with other
portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates that the disbursement
rate for Uganda was higher than the average for the Region, ranging as a
proportion of outstanding commitments from 44.4% in FY80 to 30.3% in FY83
(compared with 20.4% and 27.2% in the same years for the Region as a
whole). In FY84, the disbursement rate for Uganda declined to 17.7Z,
mostly because of lack of local funds to be provided by the Government,
while that of the Region declined to 23.1%.
26.       In addition to its own lending portfolio, the Bank Group is
administering for the International Fund for Agricultural Development an
Agriculture Reconstruction Program (Loan No. 80-UG for US$17.6 million and
Grant No. 85-UG for US$0.94 million of 1982) and an Agricultural
Development Project (Loan No. 159-UG for US$14.5 million of 1984; for the
UNDP an Assistance in Economic Planning Project (No. UGA 79/011 of 1981 for
US$3.3 million) and a Line of Credit to Assist the Uganda Development Bank
(No. UGA 80/017 of 1983 for US$2.0 million) and for the OPEC Fund an
Industrial Loan to the Uganda Development Bank (Loan No. 301-PG of 1983 for
US$15.0 million).
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Energy Sector
A. Resources
27.       Uganda has sufficient water and forestry resources for develop-
ment as energy resources. No petroleum or gas has been discovered, but the
Government is supporting the identification of prospective areas and
promotion to oil companies for exploration.  While no coal exists in the
country, peat is available although not in sufficient quantity to justify
exploitation. Geothermal sources and uranium prospects have been
identified. Development of geothermal sources is considered a low priority
in view of other less expensive energy sources, such as the considerable
hydroelectric potential. Assessment of uranium prospects is currently
underway.
28.       Fuelwood.  In Uganda, as in many African countries, fuelvood
constitutes the main source of energy for the population. Forests and
woodlands are estimated to cover 2.76 million ha, or 12% of the country's
total area. Preliminary estimates indicate that the sustainable annual
yield of fuelvood of about 10.9 million tons was exceeded in 1983 by
consumption of 13.6 million tons (excluding non-energy sources). This
represents a consumption increase of 4% over 1982, which is explained by



- 12 -
the increasing conversion to fuelwood by households because of the high
prices of kerosene as well as of electrical cookers and their spares. As a
result, a serious shortage of fuelvood is developing particularly in urban
areas.
29.       Rydroelectric Power. Uganda is well-endowed with hydroelectric
potential. The country-s main potential is concentrated on the Albert Nile
with its unlimited storage provided by Lake Victoria. The Albert Nile
falls into three sections in Uganda, namely Lake Victoria to Lake Kyoga,
Lake Kyoga to Lake Albert, and Lake Albert to the Sudanese border. The
last section is remote from the load centers and has the least power
potential. The difference in elevation between Lakes Victoria and Albert
is abi.at 516 a, of which 103 m lie between Lakes Victoria and Kyoga, and
413 m between Lakes Kyoga and Albert. The available head is concentrated
in seven locations, with a total potential capacity of about 1,745 NW and
an annual firm generation capability of about 10,200 GWh. Although the
hydroelectric potential is substantial and relatively low-cost by world
standards, the potential can be developed only in increments that are large
relative to the size of the Ugandan demand. Therefore, the potential for
substantial exports to neighboring countries is a significant factor in
determining the economics of development.
30.       Petroleum.  Uganda imports all of its petroleum requirements in
the form of finished products because the country has no refinery. Some
products are imported directly from the Middle East and some after refining
at the Nombasa, Kenya refinexy. Petroleum products are transported from
Nombasa to Nairobi by pipeline and on to Kampala by rail or road (more than
90% were transported by road in 1982 compared to only 20Z in the early
1970s). The six oil companies operating in Uganda (paragraph 44) maintain
their own storage facilities as well as retail outlets. In line with the
pattern of econaoic activity, distribution and consumption of petroleum
products is concentrated around Kampala (which accounts for 60Z of all
gasoline and auto diesel sales) and Jinja (which accounts for 80% of fuel
oil sales). In 1983, the transport sector accounted for about 74% of
consumption of petroleum products while the industrial and domestic sectors
consumed 1S and Ilt, respectively.
B. Energy Consumption
31.       Per capita energy consumption in Uganda is estimated to have been
0.35 toe in 1980, of which only 0.06 toe was commercial energy, i.e.
marketed fuelwood exclusive of fuelwood gathered as a free good,
electricity, and petroleum products. This level of commercial energy
consumption, while exceptionally low by world standards, is comparable to
estimates for some other low-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. In
Uganda, the low level of commercial energy consumption reflects not only
the country s low per capita income but also the dominance of the
subsistence sector and the significant decline in the industrial and
transport sectors during the 1970s. For the same reasons, energy
consumption is concentrated in the household sector and supplied primarily
from fuelvood. In 1980, non-commercial usage represented 82% and
commercial usage 18% of total energy consumption. Of the energy consumed,
90.7t was fuelvood, 4.O0 charcoal, 4.8% petroleum, and 0.5% electricity.



- 13 -
32.       Since 1980, the level of consumption of commercial energy has
remained low due to continued low levels of capacity utilization in the
industrial sector. The trend of commercial energy consumption, which was
declining during the 1970s, is now reversing. Statistics show that sales
of petroleum products increased by 15% between 1981 and 1983. In addition,
domestic power consumption (billings) increased by 52 between 1980 and
1983.
C. Main Issues
33.       The UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program completed a
report entitled Uganda: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (No.
4453-UG) in July 1983. This Energy Sector Assessment identified the
following main sectoral issues: (a) high cost of petroleum imports; (b)
distortions in retail prices of petroleum products and shortcomings in the
retail pricing formula; (c) relatively low efficiency in the use of
petroleum products and fuelvoods; (d) insufficient supply of fuelvood,
especiaUy in the Kampala/Entebbe area; (e) inadequate level of stunpage
fees; (f) unreliability of power supply and high power system losses; (g)
shortfall in power generation capacity to meet forecast demand beyond the
mid-1980s; (h) low level of power tariffs and inappropriate tariff
structure; and (i) lack of sectorwide coordination and planning.
34.       The Government has taken important initiatives to address these
issues, as discussed in the Uganda Energy Assessment Status Report (No.
020/84) prepared by the UNDPIWorld Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) in August 1984. In the case of petroleum, the Government
bas diversified supply sources, confirmed the viability of a supplementary
supply route through Tanzania, begun to switch to the railway as a less
expensive means to transport petroleum products, and introduced a new
pricing formula in an effort to reflect the economic costs of premium and
regular gasoline, kerosene, and diesel. For these petroleum products,
retail prices were adjusted several times to keep them close to world
market levels (paragraph 38). With respect to energy efficiency, the
Government has initiated studies to introduce efficiency measures in a
number of industries and initiated efforts in the transport sector, such as
road rehabilitation and railway track repair and regrading, which would
yield a reduction in fuel consumption.
35.       In the case of fuelwood, the Government was able to attract
assistance from a number of international donors for rural social forestry
projects to expand plantations on the basis of supply and demand. The
Government is considering an increase in the stumpage fee in order to
reflect economic costs more closely (paragraph 36). In addition, the
Bank's proposed Second Power Project (paragraph 24) would finance a
forestry and plantation inventory in main population and industrial areas
together with fuel marketing and household energy surveys in major towns.
The Government also has proposed a Forestry Project, emphasizing fuelwood,
to the Bank. As far as power is concerned, the Government has obtained
assistance from the Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
for a Power Development Study, which is intended to prepare the least cost



- 14 -
development plan for the subsector. The proposed Second Power Project will
support, inter alia, rehabilitation of Owen Falls Power Station and of
transmission and distribution networks, and a study of the tariff structure
and level. While the Government has increased tariffs, further increases
are needed to bring rates more into line with economic costs. Finally,
with respect to institutional arrangements in the energy sector, the
Government has decided to establish an Energy Department within the
Ministry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications (MPPT) to facilitate energy
policy coordination and integrated sector planning. Upon the Government's
request, technical assistance was provided under ESMAP to design an
investment and technical assistance package for the establishment of the
Department (paragraph 39). A provision for this package is included in the
proposed Second Power Project.
D. Energy Pricing
36.       Fuelvood. In the fuelwood subsector, the high level of retail
prices of fuelwood for households, especially in Kampala, is a matter of
concern to the Government. The most effective way to reduce retail prices
for fuelwood would be to improve supply, and efforts are underway in this
regard (paragraph 28). To allow fuelwood prices to reflect the economic
value of wood as a fuel, the Government has been taking first stee s and is
considering a proposal to raise the stumpage fee from a USh 200/m3 to USh
500/m3.
37.      Electricity.  Until mid-1984, tariffs were among the lowest in
the world and far below the long run marginal costs of supply despite three
increases each of 50% since early 1982. The average sales to resident
consumers in 1983 was equivalent to USh 1.0/kWH (USS.03/kWh). On August 1,
1984, tariffs were increased to a level sufficient to meet operating costs
and to service debts. The tariff rate still remains low by world
standards, yielding an average revenue from residential consumers of about
USh 8.0/kWh (US$.02/kWh) in late 1984. Preliminary estimates of the
long-run marginal cost amount to roughly US$.05lkWh. A firm estimate of
the long-run marginal cost will be made under the Power Development Study
(paragraph 35) and a tariff study to be included in the proposed Second
Power Project. The bulk tariffs for exports to Kenya are also far below
the economic costs of supply. However, the Government intends to
renegotiate the existing export contract.
38.      Petroleum Products.  Retail prices for all energy sources in
Uganda declined in real terms during the 1970s. This decline contributed
to a general deterioration of efficiency in the energy sector, and
escalated the smuggling of petroleum products to neighboring countries.
The Government, which sets the prices of the four major petroleum products,
has increased petroleum product prices to reflect their economic value
since 1982, and has succeeded in keeping retail prices in line with
economic costs, despite the high devaluation of the exchange rate during
the period. As of December 1984, prices for gasoline were set slightly
above their respective economic costs while prices for kerosene and
automotive diesel were set marginally below, as shown in the following
table which also includes Bahrain spot market prices:



- 15 -
Uganda                               Bahrain
Petroleum Product            Retail           Economic Cost      Spot Market
_           ~~~(US$Jliter)-
Premium gasoline               .53                .47                .23
Regular gasoline               .49                .46                .23
Kerosene                       .44                .46                .22
Diesel                         .44                .45                .21
Source: Bank of Uganda and World Bank.
E. Institutions
39.       Many Government institutions are involved in the energy sector.
Among the sectoral ministries, the MPPT has been given the lead
coordinating role for energy matters. To facilitate energy policy
coordination and integrated sector planning, the Government decided to
establish an Energy Department in the MPPT and this has been reflected in
the Revised Recovery Programme. Sufficient staff positions to allow the
start of operations have been approved, and recruitment of staff has been
initiated. In the interim, energy policy is being coordinated by a nucleus
staff within M4PPT, the MPED, and the subsector institutions. To assist in
putting the Department on a sound footing, the Government requested
technical assistance from ESMAP for an Energy Sector Institutional Review
focussing primarily on the formation and operation of the Department. An
ESMAP mission visited Uganda in June 1984 and prepared a report outlining
the technical assistance required, which is to be provided under the
proposed Second Power Project. Other ministries have substantial and well
established interests in particular aspects of the energy sector, either
operationally as in the case of the Forestry Department under the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry or representing major consumer interests such
as Housing, Industry, and Transport.
40.       In addition to the sectoral ministries, the Ministries of
Finance and of Regional Cooperation include the energy sector under their
purview;. In particular, the Ministry of Finance determines the prices and
taxes for petroleum products imported and marketed by oil companies.
Closely associated with the ministries is the Bank of Uganda, which, in
addition to its general monetary responsibilities, has a Petroleum Desk
that plays a special role in energy matters through its control of the
foreign exchange required for imported fuel. The Ministry of Foreign
Affairs plays an important role where energy matters involve interaction
with other countries, e.g., the export of power or import of petroleum
products. The Geological Survey and Mines Department (GSMD) in the
Ministry of Lands, Mineral, and Water Resources (MLMWR) is charged with
setting up and implementing policies for exploration and development of
petroleum and geothermal resources. Finally, the Uganda Electricity Board
is responsible for power generation and transmission.



- 16 -
F. Government Strategy for the Sector
41.       The Government's Recovery Programme, which was prepared in 1982
and updated in 1983, presents a coherent strategy for the rehabilitation of
the economy and embraces macroeconomic and sectoral policies as well as
individual projects. The basic objective of the program is to revive the
productive sectors through rehabilitation and improved utilization of
existing capaclty. The total cost of the program was US$1,722 million, of
which US$70.7 million was for the energy sector. Energy projects include:
uprating of Owen Falls Power Station (US$24.0 million); rural power
distribution (US$17.5 million); geophysical surveys and petroleum
exploration (US$16.2 million); power line rehabilitation (US$9.0 million);
and power demand and expansion studies (US$4.0 million). To reduce
Government expenditures for the geophysical surveys and petroleum
exploration, the Bank Group suggested that an seromagnetic (airmag) survey
should be carried out jointly with neighboring countries and efforts made
to attract oil companies for exploration.
42.       The main objective of the Government is to increase the supply of
energy to help sustain economic recovery. Another objective is to curb
excessive demands on scarce foreign exchange resources for energy
purchases. This strategy dictates the following policies, which are
specified in the Revised Recovery Programme: (a) control of fuel
consumption through the price mechanism; (b) promotion of the conversion of
industry to electricity and discouragement of the use of oil; (c) transfer
of the bulk of freight transport to rail; (d) connection of remote areas
served by diesel stations to the national electricit) grid; (e) development
of additional hydroelectric capacity; (f) implementation of fuelwood
management measures; and (g) initiation of the development of new and
renewable sources of energy. The Government is addressing these issues, as
discussed in paragraphs 34-35.
43.       The basic challenge facing the Government in the energy sector
today is to ensure adequate supply and to meet future increases in demand
required to sustain the country's economic recovery. The Government
intends to use Uganda-s abundant hydroelectric potential to continue to
export electricity to neighboring countries, notably Kenya, and possibly to
Tanzania, thereby earning foreign exchange. It also is dealing with the
heavy burden of the oil import bill through pricing, energy conservation
and, with a long term view, promotion of prospective acreage for
exploration.
The Petroleum Subsector
A. Organization
44.       The organization of the petroleum subsector is geared to the
marketing of imported products because Uganda has no oil production and no
refinery. Six oil companies are operating in Uganda. They are (with their
respective market shares): Shell (30%), Total (18%), Caltex (15%), Esso
(15%), Agip (14%), and Mobil (8%). Since 1970, the Uganda Government has
had a 51% share in the capital of Shell, Total, and Agip.



- 17 -
B. Institutions
45.       The MLMWR is responsible for supervising exploration and
development of petroleum resources (paragraph 40). The Permanent Secretary
of the MLMWR oversees the GSMD, which is charged with regulating petroleum
exploration and development. The GSMD is headed by a Commissioner and his
Deputy. The department has two sections, one headed by the Assistant
Commissioner Geology and one by the Chief Inspector of Mines. The GSMD
has about 40 professionals, including geologists, geophysicists, chemists,
and mining engineers, as well as about 50 support staff, such as typists,
drivers, and mechanics. The staff is well motivated, but the turmoil of
the 1970s made it difficult for the professionals to keep in touch with
developments in science and technology worldwide. In addition, much of the
physical infrastructure, including vehicles, laboratory, and office
equipment, was destroyed. The Association has provided some emergency
assistance to restore GSMD's infrastructure (paragraph 62). The proposed
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project would focus on the strengthening of
the GSMD through its new Petroleum Unit (PU), which was established by
Presidential Decree on October 26, 1984 (paragraph 68). This would enable
the Government to deal competently with oil companies that are being
attracted to investing risk capital into petroleum exploration.
C. Imports
46.       In volume terms, Uganda's imports of petroleum products peaked at
about 450,000 tons in 1970 and declined during the 1970s until they reached
189,600 in 1983. However, in value terms increasing oil prices pushed the
country's oil import bill up by 680% from US$14.3 million in 1970 to
US$97.2 million in 1983, while exports of goods and services grew by about
40% from US$261.6 million in 1970 to US$367.6 million in 1983. Therefore,
petroleum imports have absorbed an increasing share of export revenues,
growing from about 5% in 1970 to about 26% in 1983.
47.       The availability of foreign exchange to pay for imported
petroleum products is ensured through an agreement between the Government
and the oil companies. According to this Agreement, the Government commits
itself to making available foreign exchange as required to meet the cost of
importation of bulk liquid products and other petroleum related
commodities, oil company services in lTganda, and repatriation of dividends.
D. Legislation
48.       In 1982, the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Assistance (CFTC)
agreed to the Government of Uganda's request for assistance in drafting
petroleum legislation and model exploration/production agreements. The
Government published a Petroleum (Exp'oration and Production) Bill in 1984,
which would govern petroleum activities under a specific framework separate
from the Mining Act. The Association reviewed the draft of the Bill and
recommended that, before enactment, the Government invite comments from oil
companies interested in explor'-%t .a in Uganda. However, oil companies did
not express any objections ab.LJ  the Bill, which they consider clears the
way toward concluding exploration agreements. The National Assembly passed
the Bill in mid-January 1985.



- 18 -
49.       The Bill vests the property of petroleum in its natural condition
in the state and provides general guidelines and principles to follow in
contracting petrolcum operations with oil companies. Exploration periods
will be four years, with two possible extensions of two years each, and
production contracts will cover 25 years. Contractors will be subject to
annual rental charges and royalty payments in case of production. The rest
of the terms and conditions and contractor obligations will be negotiated
with the companies by the Minister of the MLMWR, on the basis of a model
Petroleum Agreement which is being prepared by CFTC for the Government.
Although the Bill provides for a possible natinnal oil company, the
Government has confirmed its intention to exEL.LJse a policy determination
and supervisory function and to promote acreage for exploration by private
oil companies interested in investing risk capital. The Government has the
option to participate in the development of a commercial discovery.
E. Geology and Exploration
50.       The most promising areas in Uganda from the viewpoint of petro-
leum exploration are located in the Western Rift Valley, which includes
Lake Albert, Lake Edward, and the Rhino Camp area (Map IBRD 18617). Around
Lake Albert, a sedimentary section, including oil shales and several oil
seeps, has been identified. Adjacent to Lake Albert are the sedimentary
basins of Lake Edward to the south and Rhino Camp to the north, altogether
forming the Albert Rift. Lake Victoria is an area of modest interest for
petroleum exploration. The rest of the country appears to have no oil
potential. Uganda's petroleum geology is explained in Annex IV.
51.       Oil seeps identified in the 1920s led to the drilling of about 30
exploratory wells near Lake Albert with an average depth of approximately
350 ft, although one well reached 4,043 ft. One of the shallower wells had
oil shows, while the deep well had oil sands and numerous black shales.
Thereafter, interest in petroleum exploration in Uganda was minimal until
the oil discovery in Southern Sudan in 1979 sparked interest in exploring
adjacent areas.3/ When the liberation war ended in 1979, stability began
to return, and a constitutional Government took office, Uganda became a
better country risk.
F. Government Strategy for Petroleum Exploration Promotion
52.       Although keen to attract oil companies into exploration, the
Government of Uganda was uncertain about how to pursue the matter in view
of its lack of exposure to the oil industry, of man-power trained and
experienced in petroleum geology and exploration, and of petroleum
legislation. The Government, therefore, established that a high priority
was to obtain technical assistance for the identification and promotion of
prospective areas. This was confirmed in the Recovery Programme. The
3/ The sedimentary basins of Sudan and Uganda are adjacent, although they
are separated by a major geological fault (the Aswa Shear Zone). The
possibility that the formations in both basins may be related has
enhanced the attractiveness of Uganda's Albert Rift basin.



- 19 -
Government further decided that a definition of the legal frasework would
assist in the execution of exploration agreements, and it obtained the
necessary support from CFTC (paragraph 48). During preparation of the
Energy Sector Assessment, the Government and the Bank concluded that
specific promotion efforts were justified to attract major oil companies,
none of which had by then shown interest.  In 1982, the Government asked
the Bank for assistance in the promotion efforts.
53.       Efforts to promote prospective acreage for exploration by oil
companies were to include technical assistance and additional geophysical
work to enhance Uganda's prospectiveness. At the reqluest of the
Government, the Bank briefed local representatives of oil companies on the
objectives and &cope of the planned promotion efforts. Because prospective
areas extend beyoad Uganda's borders, the Government decided, on the advice
of the Bank, to promote these areas in cooperation with its neighbors.
Therefore, Uganda invited Kenya, Tanzania, and Zaire to participate in an
airmag (aeromagnetic) survey over the Albert Rift and Lake Victoria.
Uganda's share in the cost was financed as part of the UganLda Technical
Assistance Project (Credit No. 1077-UG of 1981 for US$8.0 million)4/. The
regional airmag survey was completed in November 1983. It identified
thickness and structure of sedimentary basins as indicators of oil
prospectiveness. Preliminary interpretations were reviewed in August
1984. Thereafter, the Governments of Uganda, Tanzania, and Zaire decided
to promote jointly the areas surveyed, except Lake Victoria.
54.       During mobilization of the airmag survey, two major oil
companies, followed soon by others, had indicated interest in the Albert
Rift area. Because draft petroleum legislation was not yet available and
because open promotion seemed likely to improve competition and be more
efficient politically, the Government of Uganda suggested that the three
countries should invite oil companies to participate in a promotion round.
On November 29 1984, the countries sponsored a meeting in London to offer
promotion reports for sale and acreage for exploration to interested oil
companies.  Response from the oil industry was quite good-23 oil companies
attended the meeting. Interested companies have until April 15, 1985 to
submit bids for the acreage offered.
55.       Over Lake Victoria, the regional airmag survey had included only
some reconnaissance lines to test the possible presence of sediments under
the lake. The reconnaissance survey was successful in detecting sediments
of 1,500 m thickness, apparently getting deeper toward the areas not
covered by the airmag survey. The airmag review meeting in August 1984
(paragraph 53), therefore, concluded that additional geophysical work would
be justified and necessary to promote Lake Victoria.
4/ The shares of the other countries were financed under the Kenya
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit No. 2065-KE of 1982
fcr US$4.0 million); the Tanzania Second Technical Assistance Project
(Credit No. 1060-TA of 1980 for US$11.0 million); and the Zaire
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 1409-ZR of
1983 for US$4.5 million).



- 20 -
56.       This work on Lake Victoria could be coordinated with Project
Probe, which In a seismic survey over Lakes Malawi, Tanganylka, Turkana,
and Victoria sponsored by a dozen oil companies and the Bank Group and
carried out by Duke Unlversity of Durham, North Carolina. Project Probe is
planning a few reconnalsance seismic lines over Lake Victoria In 1985,
which should expand on the preliminary results of the airmag survey and
confirm the presence or absence of a relatively thick sedimentary section.
If these reconnaisance lines are promising, the Governments of Kenya,
Tanzania, and Uganda consider that Project Probe should carry out a seismic
survey.  This survey would cover about 5,000 line-kms at a cost of about
US$1.3 million. The cost would be shared in proportions of about 45% each
for Uganda and Tanzania and about 1OZ for Kenya. Because the oil companies
have not manifested any direct interest in Lake Victoria, Duke University
is polling the Project Probe sponsors to maximize private sector
participation in the possible extension of the survey over Lake Victoria.
Contingent upon encouraging results from the reconnaisance, a decision is
expected to be taken by May 1985 as to whether the Lake Victoria survey
would be financed by the original Project Probe sponsors alone and/or the
Governments (paragraph 72).
Bank Group Support for the Energy Sector
57.       The Bank initiated its support for the energy sector through the
Energy Sector Assessment Mission of October/November 1982 (paragraph 33).
A subsequent mission of June 1984 reviewed the progress being made by the
Government in addressing the energy sector issues. The Bank is currently
assisting the energy sector through project lending and through technical
assistance under ESMAP. With respect to project lending, the overall
upgrading of the country's infrastructure, including airfields and roads,
through the Second Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 1252-UG of 1982 for
US$70 million), the Third Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 1474-UG of
1984 for US$50 million), and the Third Highway Project (Credit No. 1445-UG
of 1984 for US$58 million), will facilitate petroleum exploration. The
proposed Second Power Project (paragraph 24) will assist the electric power
and forestry subsectors. Other support to rehabilitate Uganda's power
generation and distribution system and to increase the supply of fuelwood
through production incentives is under consideration.
58.       As a follow-up to the Energy Sector Assessment, ESMAP completed
an Energy Assessment Status Report and prepared a proposal for
strengthening the country's energy sector focussing on the establishment of
the Energy Department. ESMAP is also proiriding technical assistance for
improving energy efficiency in selected rural industries, for a preliminary
industrial energy audit, and for a power loss reduction study. In
addition, the Government is considering ESMAP support for the preparation
of a forestry/fuelvood project (paragraph 35).
59.       In the petroleum subsector, the Bank identified the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project in August/September 1982. Since then, the
Bank has been providing a wide range of assistance, in particular to
encourage the Government to limit public sector investments in high risk
activities. During preparation of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion



- 21 -
Project, the Bank encouraged the Government to scale down the geophysical
surveys, to maximize the role of the private sector, and to collaborate
with Kenya, Tanzania, and Zaire in the preparation and implementation of
the regional airmag survey. The Bank's main contribution was to assist in
bringing together the Governments of the four countries, in preparation of
specifications, and in procurement of consultant and contractor services.
This opened better possibilities for geologic interpretation and
exploration promotion because structural features may extend across
political boundaries. The Bank also assisted in the preparation and
organization of the promotion meeting of November 1984. According to
various oil company representatives, the strength of their response was
partly due to the involvement of the Bank. The companies see the Bank as
instrumental in enhancing the attractiveness of areas shared among several
countries, which would present difficult issues of unitization if
commercial discoveries were made that straddle borders.
60.       Because the most prospective sedimentary basins in Uganda (Lakes
Edward and Albert) are relatively narrow (about 40 km across) and are
shared with Zaire, the Bank assisted in the promotion of communications
between the two countries. These communications included, in particular,
exchange of information and views on the prospects of the shared area as
well as consultation on the coordination of promotion efforts and on terms
proposed for exploration concessions. As a result, iegular consultations
are being held now between the two countries with a view to interesting oil
companies to apply for licenses in adjoining areas on both sides of the
border. Continued assistance in this respect would be given by consultants
under the proposed project (paragraph 68).
61.       The Bank's efforts to assist in the promotion of areas on a
coordinated regional basis have been generally appreciated by the oil
industry because, otherwise, only very narrow strips of acreage would have
been offered separately by each country. The companies also have been
impressed that the entire promotion effort came to fruition in only about
18 months and with rather different countries. Several companies indicated
that they would not have responded to promotion efforts if just one of the
involved countries had presented its share of the basins. They also
suggested that the Bank should continue to work jointly with the
participating countries to address the problems inherent to exploration in
and across border zones and particularly the potentially serious issues
that could arise in the case of a commercial discovery straddling boundary
lines. These issues were addressed at the airmag review meeting in August
1984. The consulting services included in the proposed project (paragraph
69) also would cover these issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
62.       This proposed project, which is intended to promote Uganda for
exploration by oil companies, was identified by the Energy Sector
Assessment (paragraph 33). To help finance the cost of initiating



- 22 -
petroleum exploration promotion, including the airmag survey (paragraph 53)
and equipment for GSMD (paragraph 45), the Association agreed to the
Government's request to provide US$385,000 in 1983 under the First
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1077-UG of 1981 for US$8.0 million).
The Association also agreed to provide a further US$141,000 under the
Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1434-UG of 1984 for US$15.0
million) to finance continued efforts. These efforts include the
Government's cost of the promotion meeting and consultants' services for
evaluation of bids, preparation of a strategy proposal and position papers
in preparation for discussions with oil companies, until the present
project becomes effective in mid-1985. Consultants were appointed in
December 1984.
63.       The GSMD prepared this proposed project, with the assistance of
consultants and in consultation with the Association. Appraisal took place
in August 1984. Negotiations were held in London from February 7 to 8,
1985. The Government of Uganda was represented by a delegation led by His
Excellency E.R. Kamuntu, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. A
Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of this Report, and a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Rationale for the Involvement of the Association in the Project
64.       The Association's support for this project is in the context of
its broader support for exploration promotion in the East African Rift
System,5/ through wl.ich oil companies have already concluded exploration
agreenents with Burundi and Kenya. For an area like the East African Rift
System, which is landlocked, logistically difficult, and spread over many
countries, an international organization like the Bank Group can play an
important role in facilitating promotion programs in individual countries
which in turn coordinate their mutual efforts.
65.       This project, in particular, would allow the Association to
continue its support for the Government of Uganda's efforts to promote
prospective areas for exploration by oil companies as the followup to an
airmag survey. The importance of developing new energy sources in the
country was identified by the Energy Sector Assessment and confirmed in the
Revised Recovery Programme (paragraph 42). The support from the
Association would assist the Government in building up its capabilities for
the promotion of virgin areas with hydrocarbon potential and in continuing
its cooperation with neighboring countries in exploration and development
of prospective areas.
Project Objectives
66.       The project would continue promotion efforts to attract oil
companies which have appropriate technology and sufficient capital to carry
5/   Includes the following countries:  Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia,
Tanzania, Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia.



- 23 -
out bydrocarbon exploration in Uganda. It also would strengthen the
capability of tne GSHD (the project ixplementation agency) in the
administration and supervision of exploration promotion, exploration, and
deve.opment of petroleum resources.
Description of Components
A. Technical Assistance
67.       This component would comprise:
(a) consulting services by a petroleum exploration consulting
firm (64 man-months);
(b) a second promotion meeting, as appropriate, upon completion
of the geophysical survey to promote prospective acreage to
oil companies;
5c) rehabilitation of the GSHD;
Cd) proJect administration; and
Ce) training abroad.
68.       The petroleum exploration consulting firm would assist in
coordinating the implementation of the project components. It also would
assist in the setting up and strengthening of the new PU in the GSHD
(paragraph 45), including the design and implementation of a training
program- This program would be submitted to the Association for review by
September 30, 1985 (Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The consulting firm also would assist the PU in all matters of procurement
related to the project. In addition, it would assist and advise the PU on
the design, implementation, and interpretation of geophysical surveys and
other data gathering to be conducted (paragraph 71). Moreover, the firas
would advise the Government on the preparation of a promotion strategy
report on Uganda's geological prospects, assist in the preparation of a
second promotion meeting (September 1986), as appropriate, and advise on
petroleum exploration matters, in particular exploration agreements with
oil companies. If this second promotion meeting is required, the
Government's cost of the meeting would be financed under the project.
Finally, the firm would review progress reports from companies exploring
for oil in Uganda; monitor exploration activities in the region; liaise
with neighboring countries, in particular Zaire, for coordination and
execution of exploration programs; and maintain contact with the oil
industry.
69.       The consulting firm would provide for a team leader (about 28
man-months) and specialized services (another 36 man-months). The team
leader would spend about 6 months each at both the beginning of the project
(to assist the PU, advise the Government on preparing a promotion strategy,
and agree on arrangements with neighboring countries to assist in
exploration efforts across national boundaries) and toward the end of the



project (to assist the Government in interpretation and evaluation of
exploration results, drafting a further promotion strategy). In between,
the team leader wou'aI  pend about four months per year in Uganda on the
balance of the projecc related activities. The 36 man-months for
specialized services would be for geophysicists, other geoscientists, and
petroleum accountants, and for assistance in design and coord nation of
exploration in areas of interest, especially near national boundaries.
70.       Rehabilitation .-: the GSMD would include restoration of physical
infrastructure (transpol t vehicles and office and laboratory equipment) to
enable the Department to provide necessary support tu exploration companies
and to carry on its own work. Projv:t administration would comprise
consulting services to audit ':he project accounts (six man-months) and
related overseas travel for Government officials in relation to petroleum
promotion. Training abroad would cover approximately two staff years for
key local staff in petroleum related matters, including petroleum geology
and interpretation of geophysical surveys,through attendance at seminars
and special training with petroleum engineering or exploration firms.
B. Surveys
71.       To facilitate the gathering of additional information on
prospective areas, this component would provide for:
(a) geophysical surveys:
(b) geologic field work, as appropriate, as wele as geochemical
studies; and
(c) photogeologic studies.
72.       The compor_nt would be targeted at areas identified in the airmag
survey as sufficiently prospective to justify further work in order to
attract oil companies' investment in exploration activities. The focus of
the component would be on the Ugandan part of lake Victoria, where an
offshore seismic reflection survey of about 2,000 line-km would be carried
out by September 1985 if the Project Probe sponsors decide not to pursue a
larger seismic survey (paragraph 56). There is the possibility that the
focus of the survey component could be shifted to the Albert Rift area,
which was the subject of a promotion meeting in November 1984. This would
happen only if oil companies do not target blocks by the bidding deadline
of April 15, 1985. In this case, the component would be adjusted
accordingly i.e., th- geophysical survey would consist of a gravity
survey. Depending on the availability of financial resources, the Lake
Victoria survey would then be reduced in size or postponed until
alternative financing could be obtained from other (private) sources. In
addition to the geophysical survey, detailed field work and geochemical
studies would be carried out at the same time as photogeologic studies.
Costs and Financing
73.     The total project cost, net of duties and taxes (from which the
project would be exempt), is estimated at about-US;6.1 million equivalent



- 25 -
(see Credit and Project Summary). The cost estimate for the consulting
services reflects the recently signed contract between Uganda and the
exploration consultants, while the costs of the remaining project elements
are based on data obtained from recent similar projects. Physical
contingencies total about US$0.5 million, which is about 15% of the base
cost.  Price contingencies amount to about US$2.1 million, or about 59% of
the base cost. This assumes price escalation of 3.5% for 1984, 8% for
1985, 9% for 1986-88, and 7.5Z thereafter for foreign expenditures and 35%
for 1984, 40% for 1985, 30% for 1986, 20% for 1987, 15Z for 1988, and 10%
for 1989 and 1990 for local expenditures.  Cost estimates are expressed in
US$ of September 1984.
74.       The IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange component of
the project, which is USS4.0 million equivalent, and US$1.1 million of tie
local cost component, or 84% of the total cost. The Government would cover
the US$1.0 million balance of the local costs.
Project Implementation
75.       The project would be implemented over about five years by the PU
in the GSMD. The PU would be maintained at least until completion of the
project, and would be headed by the Commissioner of Geological Surveys and
Mines. He would be assisted by a Project Coordinator, geophysicists,
geologists, an accountant, and an administrative officer whose
qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to the Association and
with an adequate number of support staff (Schedule 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The GSMD would employ consultants and
survey contractors, who would report to the project coordinator.
76.      Implementation of the technical assistance component of the
project is tailored to overlap the first 4-years of an exploration license
under agreements expected to be signed in 1985. The assistance would be
provided under a 2.5 year contract renewable for another period. It would
help the Government evaluate the results of the exploration program and
help plan the next phase of exploration promotion. Because there are no
oil production activities going on, full-time assistance may not be
*        required once the PU is operating and exploration activities are underway.
Therefore, it is considered more efficient and cost-effective that the
exploration consultant (assisted by experts in other fields as required)
would not be a full-time resident adviser.
77.      The GSMD is expected to sell some of the reports or inf:irmation
produced or obtained during the project, including the results of the
geophysical surveys, to interested oil companies. A separate account for
all proceeds from the sales would be maintained. The proceeds would be
made available for further studies, surveys, or petroleum exploration
promotion in Uganda or for strengthening the GSMD up to an amount at least
equivalent to the aggregate sale proceeds (Section 4.02 (a) and (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 26 -
Procurement and Disbursement
78.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
International         Local
Competitive      Competitive
Project Element      Bidding (ICB)     Bidding (LCDB)   Consultants   Total
(US$ million)
Exploration
consultants             -                 -                1.9       1.9
Rehabilitation of GSK,   -                   .9               -         .9
Project administration    -                 -                 .7        .7
Training                  -                 -                 .5        .5
Geophysical survey       1.1                -                 -        1.1
Geological
data gathering          -                 -                 .3        .3
Photogeology                                -                 .2        .2
Promotion                 -                                   . .5      .5
Total                  1.1                .9               4.1       6.1
Of which Association
financed              (1.1)              (.9)             (3.1)     (5.1)
79.       Goods under the project would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Association because
they are estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and are not
attractive for ICB, even after bulking of orders. The geophysical survey
would be procured under ICB.6/ Consultants would be selected in
accordance with the guidelines of the Association.  All bidding packages
6/   If, however, a seismic survey is carried out over Lake Victoria
(paragraph 72), the survey would be carried out by Project Probe
without bidding as the crew is on site and its costs have proved very
competitive.



- 27 -
goods and services estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation, resulting
in a coverage of about 80% of the total estimated value of contracts for
goods and services.
80.       Disbursements (Annex VI) for consultants' services and for
geophysical surveys would be made against 1002 of expenditures. For goods,
disbursements would be made against 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and SOZ of local expenditures for
other Items procured locally. Disbursements for training and project
administration would cover OOZ of foreign expenditures. To expedite the
flow of funds for disbursements, a Special Account would be established In
the Bank of Uganda. The total value of the Account would be US$310,000
equivalent. Expenditures under all categories would be eligible for
disbursement from the Special Account. However, the ceiling on contract
value to be financed under the Special A'ccunt would be US$150,000.
Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
81.      The GSMD would keep separate project accounts.  These accounts
would be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Government and the
Association. The GSMD would submit audited accounts to the Association
within five months after the end of each financial year, beginning with
1985. It also would submit quarterly and annual reports on project
implementation in a format acceptable to the Association.
Environmental Impact
82.       Although an exploration promotion project as such has no
measurable environmental impact, successful promotion would lead to
exploration and possibly to developmental activities potentially disruptive
to the environment. However, satisfactory environmental safeguards are
included in the Petroleum Bill (paragraphs 48 and 49) and would be enforced
by the PU assisted by consultants.
Project Benefits and Risks
83.      The main benefit of the project would be to attract oil companies
to invest risk capital for exploration in the areas surveyed. In case of
successful exploration, the project would have helped to initiate
hydrocarbon production domestically, to replace expensive imports, and/or
to generate new export revenues.
84.      The main risk associated with the project is that the results of
the surveys might be insufficiently attractive to spur widespread industry
interest. Uganda is addressing this risk by (a) moving in steps that incur
expenditures only after a previous step is successfully completed, and (b)
maximizing the involvement of the private sector and minimizing cash
outlays on behalf of the Government. While promotion, and not cost
recovery, is the main project objective, the sale of airmag reports
(totalling US$120,000 as of February 8, 1985 for Uganda alone) would help
recoup part or all of the survey cost. In addition, local expenditures by
oil companies during exploration would offset some of the project cost.



- 28 -
85.       Some political risks could be involved In the project.  First,
relations with neighboring countries, which are very good, could change
thereby diminishing, although by no means eliminating, the attraction of
promoted border areas. The countries are collaborating at present and
recognize the mutual benefits from continuing such collaboration. Second,
security in some parts of Uganda is still an issue. However, the acreage
promoted is free of banditry, although isolated incidents have been
reported in the nearby towns of Hoima and Manindi. Local representatives
of oil companies have been closely following the situation, and they do not
feel that security is an impediment to exploration activities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between The Republic of
Uganda and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
87.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1985



- 29 -                                              ANNEX I
Page I of 5
Um                     - SOCIL INDICATORS A  sR
UGANDA                              REPERENGE GROUPS WEIlHTED AVERAGRSI la
MOST                (MOST USER  ESTIMATE) /b
RECK f       LOW INCOME ARICA        MIDDIE ICOME
1960/b    19701b    UTMTEI           SOUTH OP SAHARA     AICA S. OF SARA
ADJUSTED EDROLINuE RATIOS
PRIMAR:   TOTAL                   49.0        39.0        54.0              69.2                    91.0
HAE                     65.0       48.0         62.0             78.8                    90.5
FEUALE                  32.0       31.0         46.              57.6                    73.6
SECOMARY: TOTAL                    3.0         6.0         5.6              13.1                    17.4
MALE                     4.a        6.0          7.0             17.6                    23.7
FEMALE                   1.a        2.0          3.0              8.3                    14.8
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECoSN)            11.6         7.4         3.7               7.Z                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACEIE RATIO
PRDItAR                           31.0        34.0        34.0              66.1                    38.6
SECONDAR                          18.0        20.0        21.0 /L           25.9                    24.3
ADULT LrERACr RATE tS)             2S.1 /f       ..        52.3              44.3                    35.6
PASSENCER CARSITHOUSAND POP          3.5         3.0          ..               3.8                    20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        12.4        23.6        21.8              41.                    100.8
TV RECZIVERS/THDUSAND POP            0.1         1.4         5.8 'A            2.0                    18.5
NEWSPAPER (MILY GENEAL
IND rES  )  cuWATIN
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            7.3         8.5         1.6 /1,           5.4                    17.2
CINDIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA    0.3          ..         0.1 jd            1.4                     0.3
LAM FORCE:
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUS)         3Z55.0      4187.0      5427.0
PEAE (PERCENT)                    35.1        34.6        33.6              36.5                    33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             89.0        86.0        83.0              77.4                    57.1
INDUSERY (PERCENT)                 4.0         5.0         6.0              9.8                     17.4
PARCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             44.7        42.9        40.3              41.0                    36.3
NUUI                              58.8        56.8        54.1              52.1                    47.6
EKALIE                            31.0        29.3        26.9              30.2                    25.1
ECOER[I}C DEPENDENCr RATID        - 1.0          1.1         1.2               1.2                     1.4
PERCET OF PRIVATE DIUN
RECEIVED B
HIGHS 5E OF IIWSEDOLDS               .        20.0 /h
HIGHESr 20X OF WOUSEDOLDS           ,,        46,6 lb       ..
LOWEST 202 OF NHOSEHOLDS            ,,         6.2 /h
LoEsr 40Z OF HOUSEWLDS              ..        16.6 Ii       .
-OE    TAXCET UCUS
ESTIMATED ABSOLJTE POVERTf DCME
LEVEL C$SS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ,.             168.3                   525.3
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..              90.5                   249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
IEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ,.          ,,          ..             107.7                   477.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        87.0 /d           65.0                   186.0
ESTMAUED POP. BELOU ABSOLUTE
POTErY XINCOE LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                .          ..          ..              34.7
RURAL                               _.          ..          ..              65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 t E S
la  The group averages for each Inditcaor are population-weghted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countrics among the
indieators depends on availability of data and is not unifors.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970U between 1969 nd
1971; and data for Nbst Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; Le  RegiStered, not all practicing in the country; /f Ages 16 and over; I& 1979; th African
population only.
JUNE. 198



-30                                             AN= I
Page 2 of 5
IOISA                 - SOCIAL TIWICAOSC STA sun3
wr:(usu          ET m Gc TDmRnUs) lb-
Ricca INcer AnreO                " 
1960/b    1970/b    LSTZIAZEb       SOSII OF 5A363A    eisa   . wr SANARA
am (soul   q Ma)
TOTAL                             236.0      236.0       236.0
AGRICULTURAL                       893        99.8       107.6
cp m  cam (ONS)                      100.0      160.0       230.0           249.1                  1112.9
(EILGCAIS OF OIL rUIYAIE)          27.0       58.0        23.0             62.8                  529.0
U S  TAL STATIfusT
POPULATn.o 1o-1A (TnOUsmn)    7286.0        9758.0     13651.0
MUN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)         5.2        8.0         8.7             19.2                   29.7
POPULATIS0  PrOJEONS
POPULATIN I TER 20W WILL)           ..         ..        24.7
STATIOlARY POPUlATION (HILL)       ..         ..        8S.5
POPULATION HWWW                    ..         ..         2.0
POPUTAT1 DENsITY
PRt SQ. 34.                      30.9       41.3        5j.2             32.5                   55.S
Pu SQ. 31. AGI. LAND            81.6       97.B       121.1            119.2                  111.5
POPULATON AGE STRUCTU  (I)
0-14 TRS                        63.3       44.4         5.0             45.6                   45.4
15-64 TRS                        53.6       52.6        51.6            51.5                    51.7
65 AND ADM                        3.1        3.1         3.3              2.9                    2.9
POPULATION 0109  RATE (Z)
TOTAL                             2.8        2.9         2.7              2.8                    2.8
u-EA                              7.1        7.1         3.4              6.2                    5.2
CRUDE NIIIIt  RATE (PEl TDlOS)     49.4       49.9        50.1             48.6                   47.0
CRD  DEATH RATE (Pu  HOUS)         21.2       18.4        18.7             17.7                   15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4        3.4         3.0              3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLAliIG
ACCPTORS. ANDaAL (THOUS)           ..        3.8        16.1 c/.
USERS (Z OF HAURIED  MCEI)         ..
IIIEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CPrIrA
(1969-41-100)                     107.0       ".0         86.0           - 85.3                   91.6
PER CAITA SUPPLY OF
CA*ORIS (r OF REQG_RIETZS)       96.0       98.0        80.0              6.4                   98.2
PROTENzS (GRAMS Pu DAY)          51.0       55.0        50.0             49.9                   56.7
OF 931H AM"L AID PULSE           21.0       24.0        27.0 /d          18.3                   17.0
CHILD (AGES I-4) DEUI RATE         28.0       17.0        22.0             23.8                   18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT *IRTH (TEARS)      43.0       46.8        46.6            48.4                    51.7
INFANTr HOH. RATE (PERM TIIO)     138.9      113.2       120.0           117.5                   102.7
ACCESS 70 SAFE UATOt (2POP)
TOTAL                              *-       22.0        35.0 /i          21.8                   35.6
URN                                         3.0        100.0 /c          61.5                   54.1
PUtAL                              *-       17.0        29.0 Cc          14.2 Ic                27.3
AS   TO E lA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       76.0        94.0 ic          32.0
URAN.                                       84.0        82.0 Ic         69.2
RURAL                              ..       76.0        95.0 1;-         24.8
POPULATION Pu PHYSICIAN         15050.0     9160.0 ie  26810.0 Id       27477.8                11946.3
POP. Pu  NINRS   PERSO          10030.0     5120.07o   4180.0 rd         3396.2                 2248.9
POP. Pu HOSPITAL BED
TOAL                            750.0      640.0       610.0 Ic        1069.0                  986.9
URBAN                            80.0       80.0       100.0 IF         395.2                  368.7
RUlAL                          1710.0     1820.0      1600.0 iF        3094.0                 4012.1
ASIISSIONS Pt HOSPITAL BO            ..      154.1
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIOLD
ToTAL                              ..        4.8
RU                                 ..
EtaN                               ........
AVERAGZ NO. OF PERSONS/ROCK
TOTAL                              ..
m                                  ........
ACCESS TO ZLECT. (2 O FIWLLMNS)
TOAL                               ..
a                                  ..



-31-                                                                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
hocu. iltail h           Seur  it-Ie ire ceata  g trcl judged t. nut -ucwutttatr  ar. tlefa  it aSci it.. b. used tht 1 b-V   eela. tuta. -taulty
aupatble  ucuacut t t teaI ci uccdctdtd deIluttlac-  ad rn$ta ceu  by itltccuo  scuttle. tu etletle  thu an..  It. data  n    st.ta,ccu  ta
d..clucda.? butee  ttat-ftc., ant cle-tatn. curtta   sic   di tut... bt-E.. quen.-
iTM tuift..  jeep. te  It) th.  -s  sctty great ci t%. caljea  scatt  -i (l) a acuit  11toup  itll eeasht htsher  -.S.c luu. die the macicy gasp. cith
cubjuat cecutry (.-.Pt lee-0& MI Cue.  It  guu     -ce  gas chut 'Ildla tur   Scyth Aftti  au  ltisl  Xtac   I. el-uu  Waraeu  ci uteuegc  cu1t-et-1
011flieIa).  It thu tueCuec utu   dat thu .eu .u   r  pupultla ocighic  nacthtic san  1.. -uc  leiteau  sat uhue  uly ala eujutity at tic ecetluc Icc
greu  hue data ie thee tudLett. UcLe the aceuauc ci -otscela   -M th. ftitil -t4. dpud  -c thu  -cutlllity ci dart cad tc   -ct-,eu   -casle et hu
ustlucd Ic -tubtg cocugu  Mi -   lclsior te cauhu.  Iacn..                   arc -mg   cc!,2 ucutlt Beu ce  the -cte ci -   1ledt-ac  5- ttc. tct thu   atty cad
(Ic d c.le.~IEMI1 !i! f,f    BrIe   ftpl.lc  ilcidd by crahu  at peccltugI
~ at -Tutal uttuc  crc.  upellug  au  atu  .Ar  tuta  -sit-  Itil.                    1ttlccclttd   iu  eedlt.i ccl! at curatett  lust.
I  s  il  datu.                                                                     :ctlato  -t  teectu   Iccc  - tcpla,tle dIrtied he -cau at prattielr
krtcltrl-tiatlc     at egtlcutccl tea. aca  trurectly -  p.sccutly                   cu         out guat  cc,  retceut  pruateul ear   a
Brc       Pastat.  =re   a  kitale gatic  at ta IL. tulle! tIl).                          ucutig  st iel
- t GN P.t -aPIt. outlast. atseuiate prtccc                                     atuliab   is sltte  a  pflatu gaceit1 A  upualutuad Icupitul A
% mmm        -   ucceel  suthad as ieLd ucel isle  (100042 helubI                         tautlut   aer.;  -eecl   r  c-blltutct  pcrc- tly ataiud
till, Bot        cc  c.b at                                                                       b betasphlyca. - iacsbllieett. seetiteg peiclptlly   tds
eate ate cat teelcici.weta hu blae.hect  L_tlad  healtha
ustet       selo. Po eatn  -  at apuatot aecaptL- ci tgstla                                    all   cents us puetutly ctciid by . pbycitL-n (1c  by a  VdSta
peita  terc  (act a1 lrigultu      " pI-clEa eaal cas a  byit- cdau                           uueu.  a           hft, at..)  UItS aIf- I.-scelct aeeat 
a  =as -Iea  claettlt) Ic   I=ag      at all aictulel Pue -plec, tlow.                    prucd. a  a1tted tcc ci -dl-I rtactlca-
ti,  d  ot duo..                                                                      ah.tcts  teasltu  hed - Totl cabn ci u                    tltts . ct-ilalutr
Tota l Pt-atelc. Oldea Ic Wu.u) - Ag .1 lily Ii lOll. Ott,. as tit                       lmeant
datb.                                                                                     Lautufic ha!ci a_ehILi rtrsa rev-cu-atcldt    ted    tlas,a  ruS
dne   etta.taeo .   el      a,a  au  I. _teal puuats-Alcldesut am.e.                                                              tilidateth  thee.-c   hocs  ustar
-Ve auErtaa; til. It!  -ad til data.                                                    the h.iackuhl le -a:tct It putrcat
frpairttaiAerjceit-   _J~l                                                          Lacta tem   eZ  M etoaac   e  -rrl.ehr,cdn-    reue.
i~~liij~7ijj    "PYliu   isrcl  eplamtta   ajoo    at. head as tiNt                     ait ptaupar                       .-t   i chc  I.nrc  eacut-dcst t-el -
est-ca.        l Pootepateglat.c  er ftaty tae  -W."t. at ethea                          -septad Pane.
laoul atuatg 11l. u.Potscay at Iftec  1otrsle  etch seycPar..                                 ,atrae              Et ieartc  daulltrcal   teal uti. a  rra  -
..Ptee ltus bet. ad las. ILi. cepaec  atclttltg1.  at 77.1                               Cectatthtlgaec  tettty I.Ioa   aecaaptacg
asecale   hul.  I tattit  aetaifte t cc  eau b.t. adm past talty-.-4-    4t
p- 'lu  putiasos. h.atli sauty I  CIs. edge   as1 et Pcla  sIn 5lC
Vteltotttas  .ci  eta        itty aV-"tlt7teS  ice prejettat P-rea.                     S  etSiedIrbtas
Occeaycualca  - Ia as ccabl as.- ad ec-saitcttitMeor uha    el ala aW teelt - Cta-  tutt. asl*  a  ts.u
eseeheeoc   Wgd aeecbe  perad. .111. ugu-spaetlc terltt y                          curLt-t  Cf .11 ags Stthe et-cat  trea  - pa-tauaOcf ci tptatec
eats hu. iltc eytatd at raptatuasot 1.0L (us                                            pel-ty .eiui-agp pa1tet-s  celt  t1c1ahe rttcldt   egd  -1.1
-aPtahtias   -Ia).  Ic act% . PpagtLela  tubIr   eat. -_    naa.                           tasee_ hut .teta   u ittitari teeib. ci pet-st  u*rtte  ta
aW aqot tee    duatb tea  tit "P actuate  Ic .1. rntc-t. ad the.                             -Eacutet   t11 asce--I ahtaseautet sy  -ceac  tti  ttc
gerath et. Ia  i    Tire et:titty pupaias_ tIar us aa1ttic  -  the                         ate  rn  Fpepti ar  huts. u  ahu  tic aittelut tehuc  'P.
Paslate thats - u thecauhup tatptpuleta  stasi  ca st-t..                          peclh  gret   actts. atcce                  It   atctu   C-
laI-i the  L-a thee ttsas-ael fatltty has hec unl-ce; uct                                 pe1,tIc  -U,ll  ar Ei ea It ra-e  ci cg;  aecpocdc    ca    t
t.. coc  utiu  the at reptdatti  eat he  -tcuu   -It,. ?he                                 uc-2alt  eacldud.
-Ctta   ci 5pupeacasto cia yas. c-. L. sc o   e a re.a  the                        Ocetleau a.tetss  (V-_co atecudet    Vuratase  Itastictt
utst  tattcae  pagatite  ta the papclccls  Ic the 1    _u.r3  cst.                   I-I.l"ahta.tdetll       te  9tagru  Actoruat
tic aastethee tfrttltty teta   cc epl-tus  tara  ls tot  t                               tchcdul        sdptcata  uait   atiot
scued, tog, data.                                               triatl-tscler eat!. - unset, ad stued-= Iat_ e - T-ta  uchcuueLld to
Dula -eUrtt.                                                                            pIZ-7t  ad cc-"-y  taset dtrthd by erehet  .  taaeher  It the
tec. S. -%   197d0ua   roultt  per equat. ttaster(li- SIt.ue)  tbeO                                                                        C.ap-dteclacela
at,; tote. ii. a  till dc c. ld   t-47-.(s
pacltas  tl. 1170. cud Bill it.                                                       r  cclgIe        hh lit peceas aerlada   -bta .  uctu. ad
tuualsIshrt  (ecca)  tae      sa  gec  uu  at tea   Ld-                             uIlt-tryeila
_.epeuata ice ti!=l0   till-it. ci  l(v-.sit  eetecC te haau   untrt                                                             At! tyP- ci eaete  iE- taL.
rue  th ettib. 6cr ti-.ci  - intilIt 1       eh p-u.p- tb ehcaa  cici                      raa    ccit;dr  c   .                a     s usA   c ea..reta  t        a
teec htectatis rae - Aeccua  cale  e d.sheec  c sat 11 lus  cc                           tc recta_ cud tI Fca-  etho telca               TV cur u       te   iet
hue maca  tetuettr ptt ed" ti Sth  eaetu   etac  -ga ..apctitc                           hassse  tteeaci tea r -aae oatct                   M-    tch. --rs
fictttt   eaa   caly     tt1eI-yat useage   dIug to tlow. torn, cud                        et"u&taa   h!  tacari cter.. ocpuut.' deited as.  uttaIta
till.                                                            pnhtlestec iceta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d-d recactlr Cu turete A_-ta    a. i  cc Patcu
Pett taeta -Areycae. .aL te     Acei)-          1a caSe at  -ePcte-                  ta he rprlfi ti It attr  at tea  tac t1es c  ah
cilct-reotdte-eL             t  acu  a eattauc  tally plusiug                            Clocu  -ana iceicce r Crete re Vee - bed. a  thecaerc
Ptrrc                                                                                       tattettalgtepue  olae  eaclsc   n-Ic  etse  a
Pr-,teccig ac  trt- ci rstta ttocc  cIt stelad Sc             hte                      rWrtr
is. AM %MTytiir                                                                                e1pnw;  il. tot0 ad till dac.
rite  f tea tret.et Lo re  Caelu Crio-iatO) -Ceda .4pt  eatctse ceai -P-eal  lalbt teen as   eet                                  Ci trial tLe. ta .
acuci ericeticect al ied rhatte.   erdutta  ottduc teda dcteluc taecc  - Isle  tee   I, tatat. itctey. hett:g a1
tedad: It. ascld-a tearSal. tacti    rc  eae   ahCe.                                        ihe1 eeraaa  tota  tact t=rt  I-GO, 1oin ..A lotdc
eagteee tcced c  aeueldith  -e  Sitll.a    eaescec e.                             ruduee (erat   lathe Ieee. toceu.t  cutturtc. caseceetie   a
ecett  aS te at etc udei.  tare-Pat  peitl   tcat    .ci Iaeeetre   aa  mdgea    roe    ietL bit  tar: 100. tilt
Z=e     strtlaag   -ed- er tel   ee4ghr: tll-At.L role, a  1012                   ad  Ilt Ist...
5  dare.                                                                                  terclttearree caic recereoti - teed, sir, aS tacitt F-. - p.teteputt-ta
day. ara-ttchlc      Pa-tic  ei .pic   tece.  reatta  tq-terta- b,ar                      tfil  f00 a    5    dat.  tee =c   ed-C0eputpta   t
e-ara  ad c- a-s tu etAth   he. fepis    .th   us  teat saeValete   ag-acute                                            . at the  p       -elei.,a IS1 ttas6 tra.  A
rettcte   adtota   tecete,citrcel -ttrethurtas  -thett-                                    tcslst   r   r             Ertat estee.
ot   pply af tad put ds.  V- eapply ri tad ta dutad -s ale.  he-                         terc,r-Pe 0tera.toeti  ats.a   p-cccI  ptrrc
clcetea  tIias cit Ietpemrtt pet day a1 0 gu  ci .utat set
pasprco   ot arh tO gs-  tbucld he ."-I preat.1   tlatttT't ar et
cE astas  Pruet.1 ac      a     Feaoc  ett aseld,  tpce  ItP-   tai I0 rhe                 eat4 he9 toecrre-e  cUt  -la-oiula cetc-
Ztite  hel .iedt IT; tiM-A!, tilt -a  101 date,                                           lactatd sIaactere1eo   art(I.e  tcel-tth    sna 
tee CctI. rsatoeutt ire arts! ad eat.. - imtutm  aepp,  Et fred                         ihelue  uate  ttee  tact r tha  los  Curl helce- aitti a Sotn
li tri-1) bac  rat (tee  he.aoi  -   .is.a  Carte-s put0 e-au    to7               tetttSeee  u              t.t Zeros bet itS! -e.r ectcl  alu   as   -tr
usl greet I-) atar  t..e iilteI  tt  g   te;tesrialee                                         etrlca  parrey isess...      teedL- I.oathidc astue pe  rer--a
irel   -dt darot" eo  It  eats;BuS.  1-0 cod liltd.. tar.                               eIea  tEs c  mte e.,te ....a.!t dne  to   hen
te.! etc  cijaase  in  hIther eelS    1ele  te -rasurte
mean                                                                  tAr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ultaed ea 8atrS..- Ableolce  P-eylt    ae Ieee     rc
trec -sr  t    ftc   r..-) - ocagep oFhtc  ur at  ile ecatute                    -W net-Ittt    at eual   olcarthuht.chte
cc1 -ctrItri, til  ad1 lit d-ata."-    4cl
pucaS    t   a  ti- oc   It-ie. lnh; tiWA. lilt ad til dar..
iccee ai tut the  teco   teaeull   ue.  urSa  a nat
-Est   eapply itteledu  e.-es arta  Stee  - .t- t~.4 hut                                                                     ft.e-act LstyLe  ad  .t-uectu  D.patas-
-aru 9aatd ase   -'hl a  tl.t ire pete d heec-ict. epetog. ad                                                                                   Put  l`iLa
eadttar  aXle) u . . p teaccge .2 chute  -p-etlo  pupaflsoca.  Be -
ari  eaccpalc  tetat   t acaip-t tI--ta  -    -r  the 2t0 -turt
las.   . un  eac  na.tal!.  trna  ash  t57ce  h   cata
-d Z.. :!to toe eta Maycalicctc  at ec tat.  -   CePit. unIte. ac tr



-32-                                             AIM I
Pae 4 of 5
B0UC        -        TEC D    -W
GP PIR CAPE IN 1983 al - USS2
t NATNAL   lr IN 1983 bl d/                             MDEUL U2E CF  u  m    . PCommt Pric.)
IES Nlfi       Z              1970-75   1975-81    1982 d     1983 d/
QP at Market Pric            8081s M0                      -         -3.2      8.2        58
Glos Dmeti Inebwn              689       8.6             -l1.9      -4.7      27.1-
(kes Nional Svings             433       5.4             -16.9      -10.4     44.7
Qwmt, ACCQ:t Balance          -151      -l.9                           
llt of PE1os, NFS              379       4.7             -11.3      -7.3      36.0        3.9
Tmprt of Goods, NFS            509       6.3             -9.2       -59        3.1        5.0
W=i  AE  IN 1983 CAt 1983 Prlces) b/ c/ d/              GDWENMW  PINAE
Cental Cauerset
U$ Mllia       Z                                            (E(fsh Hli,)     (Z of GiD)
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W9ZS3 d/   1983 d/ 1971/72
Algriwltte                   5,853      76.0            Owrent Beceipts                   52,822       4.2      13.5
11dustrY                       3D7       4.0           Gwrest Expesiture                  43,871       3.4      13.5
servics                      1,539      2D.0            Oirenr Srpls                       8,954       0.7       -
Total                      7,699      100.0           (ptal fhexlite                     8,817       0.7       8.6
Uf,           A'ND PM                   1979      198D      1981      1982 dt    1983 d/
MM" suply                             13,166      17,435    30,849    38,512     54,422
Ban Credit to Goert                    9,485      14,848    29,332    34,111     40,868
.kc redt to Oier Sectos                3.371      5.951    11,459    21.371      35,186
1979       1980      1981    1982 d/    1983 d/
nage or lc N s)
myas 2 of GD                            11.9        8.0       6.9        4.1       4.3
General Prim rndex (1966 - 100) e/     1,702      3,527     6,800    13,104    16,616
Im--L percentae cB     In
teeral Prime Idex                    85.6       107.2      92.8      92.5      26.8
u.k (kut to Rzbdl  Sector               3D.1       56.5      97.5       16.3      19.8
Bwk Ceit to Private Sector               4.7       76.5      92.6      86.5       64.6
al Caloiatei by tebp same cuaierso  tedmiqce as tie World Bank Atlas (aIjusLng for tbe overvalued exohe rate but not for
any underr i  of 'magendo- tranaction).
bJ QG, InP   e l t and Seftr4s ca-1lated at the offirLal wi _o-e eulwhe rate. The estinites of GE at meket prices are
therefore bl  r   tim  te per Cwta GE estismte (whidh is aijusted for tie overvalued  g  rate)      popuatic.
c/ up-o-date figures on emploent ad pructivity are unavailable.
d/ Est eate
G P delato.
Mbt aplicable.
tewer 11, 1984



- 33 -                                              Am  I
0Vaf 5
E C          nSM      DA  -   w
A.AN   i' PMM                                                                      MAHM    EXE R (Averag  19D-83)
US$ MLfLi     Z d/
1980     1981      1982a/   1983a/
iS Mlli)                      Coffee                          315       96,4
Cbtton                            5        1.5
E.parts of Goods. NFS                      332       250      354         379      Tea                               1        0.3
Thq,wrts of Mods, NFS                    -572      -508      -512        -509      OtJmr hq2wts                      6        1.8
Resource Gap (deficit --)                 -240     -258      -158        -130       Sb-btal                        327      100.0
Factor Services and  musfers (net) b/      -9         3       -2D         -21      ddjusbiA s el                   4-4       4.3
Balance on Otrrnit Acmt                  -248      -256      -160        -151       IbtAl.                         313       95.7
Oficial Grants                             93       106        91          79
abl  lk.J7 Loan (jet)                      83         8        64          27         E        DrE, n       31, 1983
Disursemwts                 (135)      100     (121)        (94)                                        I=$ Mllai
AmotizUs                                (-52)    (-92)    (-57)        (-67)
Use of Fbad Credit                          27      125        92         101     Iblic Debt, hid. Q 1rteal              661 a/ f/
Odm Itm  n.e.i (net)                     -107        85       -66         -22      Nan-Q.rateid Private Debt
Oeal Balance of _aynm                    -154        61        12    Z      )      Tbtal Qitst l  aid Dlsblaed           661
Rerves (end yer)                            4        25        60          88      NEr IZ  SE= RAMI PM  1983 g
P2aat Arrears (end year)                   257      217         -           -                                                 2
Pt etr n Tipos                             124      116       101         105        blic lDebt, id. Qtaat_                  38.7
:treum EKPorts                              -         -         -                  NeOantead Privae Debt                        ..
otl Oitstndfrg and D in-sed               38.7
_M           __ EAWD el                                                            MIRD/M  TEmi     (Dec. 1, 19S3) (M$ Mlim)
I_ff  ID
Amk i Average
1983     1981      1982      1983        O a          acd Dlsbursed         37.5    123
US$1.00 = U.Sh.                           7.4      50.0     9.0    156.9                                               -      212
UEh 1.00 - US  s                         13.5      2.0       1.1       0.6            t      i cl,  . Undisharsed    37.5    335
a/ Fstlznars.
'/ FIlues offical gs-
c/ At win  one. The w _ndkw-taD exdi  rate was llE  270 - US$1 at tle erd of April 198.
7 X of utnausted mrdmdise exports.
' Tncludes errors and omissions, and adjusents for valuation, covera  and tintng for 19OD-8
l Inldudes tpdrs nodUrnl share (26w) of EAC I1, but  mcludes DF.
Debt sevice paysr  (inchdlin  IF oblUgatis) as a perentage of exports of goods and servics.
.. 1bt available.
Decewber 11, 1984



-34-                               ANNEX 1I
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1984
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower      Purpose                          Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                      8.40   120.531/
1077-UG   1981      Uganda     Technical Assistance                       8.00      2.44
1110-UG   1981     Uganda      Water Supply Engineering                   9.00      2.99
1228-UG   1982      Uganda     Phosphate Engineering                      4.00       .53
1248-UG   1982      Uganda     Industrial Rehabilitation                 35.00     31.40
1252-UG   10O2      Uganda     Second Reconstruction Program             70.00     21.57
1328-UG   1983      Uganda     Agricultural Rehabilitation              70.00      60.59
1329-UG   1983      Uganda     Third Education                           32.00     27.66
1367-UG   1983      Uganda     Posts and Telecomunications               22.00     10.47
Rehabilitation
1434-UG   1984     Uganda      Second Technical Assistance               15.00     14.06
1445-UG   1984     Uganda      Third Highway                            58.00      58.00
1474-UG   1984     Uganda      Third Reconstruction Program              50.00     50.00
Total                                                8.40   493.53    279.71
of which has been repaid                           8.40      2.77
Total now outstanding                                0.00   490.76
Amount sold:                        17.50
of which has been repaid          17.50
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       0.00   490.76 1/
Total undisbursed                                                       279.71
1/ Includes exchange adjustment.
Note:  Two further credits have been provided.  The Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (Credit No. 1510-UG for US$28.0 million) was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 19, 1984 and was signed on November 28, 1984. The Agricultural
Development Project (Credit No. 1539-UG for US$10.0 million) was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 8, 1985 and was signed on February 12, 1985.



35                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1984
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor               Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1965    Nulco Textiles, Ltd.      T.-xtiles and              2.80    0.71      3.51
Fibers
1972    Tourism Promotion         Tourism                    1.11      -       1.11
Services (Uganda) Ltd.
1984    Sugar Corp. of Uganda    Food and                    8.00      -       8.00
Food Processing
1984    Toro and Mityana Tea      Food and                   1.53      -       1.53
Co., Ltd. (TANTECO)       Food Processing
1985    Development Finance       Development Finance        -       0.37      0.37
Company of Uganda
Total gross commitments                            13.44      1.08     14.52
Less cancellation, termination,
repayments and sales                              4.41     0.71       5.12
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                            9.03     0.37       9.40
Total undisbursed (including participants           9.53     0.37       9.90
portion)
Source: IFC Disbursements Section.



- 36 -                      Annex III
UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                         24 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:           GSMD
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Association and first mission:               August 1982
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:      August 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:          February 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:               May 1985
Section II.   Special Bank Group Implementation Action
None
Section III.  Special Conditions of the Project
(a) preparation by September 30, 1985 of a training program
for review by the Association and subsequent
implementation of the program (paragraph 68 and Schedule
4 of the draft Development Credit Aereement).
(b) maintenance, at least until completion of the project,
of the PU in the GSMD headed by the Commissioner of
Geological Surveys and Mines and assisted by a Project
Coordinator, geophysicists, geologirts, an accountant,
and an administrative officer whose qualifications and
experience would be satisfactory to 'he Association and
with an adequate number of support scaff (paragraph 75
and Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
(c) maintenance of separate accounts for the proceeds from
sales of project generated data to oil companies and
provision of the proceeds for further studies, surveys,
or exploration for hydrocarbons in Uganda or for
strengthening the GSMD up to an amount equivalent to the
aggregate sales proceeds (paragraph 77, Section 4.02 (a)
and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



_ 37                        A Annex IV
Page 1 of 5
UGANDA
PETROLEUM E$PLORATION PROMDTION PROJECT
Summary of Petroleum Geology
General Geology
1.        Uganda is a landlocked country of about 235,036 km2.
Approximately 85% of the territory is made up of Basement rocks of
Precambrian Age, such as granites and metamorphics.
2.        Sedimentary basins are known to exist in two areas: the first is
the Semaliki Riverltake AlbertlAlbert Nile River Valley area, and the second
is the area around and south of Entebbe extending into Lake Victoria. The
first basin is the elongated northern part of the Tanganyika Graben, also
called the Western Branch of the East African Rift System, and the second
one is the Kampala - take Victoria basin.
Stratigraphy
3.        The northern end of the Tanganyika Graben, which is known as the
Albert Rift, runs the length of Uganda on the west. It constitutes the
Semliki River Valley, Lake Albert, and the Albert Nile River segment, as
well as the Ruwenzori Mountains (5,120 m) horst block. The graben ends
sharply to the north against the Aswa Shear Zone where the north-east
flowing Albert Nile River detours abruptly to the north-west. This is at
Niimzle on the border with Sudan where the river becomes known as the White
KLle (Bahr el Jebel). To the south, the graben extends into Zaire and
Rwanda where it is filled by a chain of active volcanoes, the Virungas.
4.        The outcrops within the entire graben are of Recent to
Pleistocence age with deposition continuing at this time around and in the
lakes. Away from the lakes at higher elevations, rocks of Pleistocene age
crop out. The sediments of Recent age in the Lake Albert area are gravels,
sands, and lake terraces. They may be as thick as 200 m and have been
named the Epi-Kaiso or Semliki Formation.
5.        Underlying the Epi-Kaiso is the Kaiso Formation of
Plio-Pleistocene age with the rocks of the Pliocene age seen in the
subsurface only. The section is made up of silts, sands, gravels, and
muds, all of which are very soft. Approximately 503 n of these sediments
are present in the B-1 well near Butiaba.
6.        The Kisegi Formation is seen only in the subsurface below the
Kaiso and in the Bl well, where it is 488 a thick. The upper 778 ft (237
m) is made up of alternating sands and gray-brown to gray-green shales.
The lower 820 ft (250 m), vhich begin at 2,500 ft (762 m) in the Bl
borebole, is composed of alternating sands, clays, and oil shales. The age
is thought to still be Pliocene. If buried deep enough to generate
petroleum, this section could be both a source and reservoir.



-38-                        Annew IV
Page 2 of 5
7.        In the Bi well, the section below the Kisegi Formation, which is
thought to be of Miocene age, consists of blue-green shales and oil shales
with subordinate sandstones. It has a basal conglomerate resting upon
basement. This section, which was encountered at 3,333 ft (1013 m) and is
698 ft (210 m) thick, appears to be an excellent potential source rock.
8.        It is assumed that the above formations will aIl thicken to some
degree westward into the depocenter in the Semliki River-Lake Albert sub-
basin, where gravity maps have been interpreted to show a total sedimentary
column of more than 3,000 m over a rather large area.
9.        There is no information on the nature of the stratigraphy of the
Lakes Edward and George sub-basin. But to the north in the Albert Nile
sub-basin, records demonstrate that a well located 8 mi west of Rhino CaWmp
was drilled to a total depth of 500 a without reaching basement. To this
depth, the section is made up of sands and clays, oil shales have not yet
been encountered.
10.      The total known sedimentary section in the entire graben is of
continental, fluvial (river), and lacustrine (lake) origin.
II.      Karroo Series are reported from some scattered down-faulted
outliers in the Entebbe area and on Dagusi Island in Lake Victoria. Black
shales on the basis of their Glossopteris flora content, are attributed to
the Ecca Shale Formation of Carboniferous age. Some oil and/or gas
indications were reported from shallow drilling in these outliers. Though
Karroo sediments are not mentioned as possible occurences in the graben,
nevertheless they could well be preserved in the depths of the
depocenters, together with Upper Jurassic shales as the Kisangani
(Stanleyville) equivalents.
12.      The total sediment thickness is expected to reach more than 3,000
a in the graben depocenters, ample to create adequate conditions for
bydrocarbons generation.
Oil Shows
13.       There are two oil seeps at Kibiro, on the eastern shore of Lake
Mobutu at about 100 a from a fault separating the eastern edge of the
graben from the crystalline basement. Shallow wells drilled near the seeps
encountered some heavy asphaltic oil shows (about 15 API). An oil and gas
seep has also been reported from the Kibuku area south of Lake Albert n
the northern flank of the Ruwenzori faulted basement fold. An analysis
shows a 25 API gravity oil. Shallow wells were not successful for
discovering additional shows. Farther to the north, along the lake near
Butiaba, a borehole has encountered oil shales with some petroleum
indications in sand lenses. Oil seepages about 8 km and 22 km south of
Aswa on the Zairian shore of Lake Albert (across Butiaba) have been known
since the first foreigners visited the region and were the reason for the
initial steps to explore the graben that took place in Uganda around the
early 1920s. No geochemical analyses are yet available, they will be
carried out under the proposed project.



39                       Annex IV
Page 3 of 5
Source and Reservoir Rocks
14.      Source Rocks are known to occur in the formation below the Kisegi
Formation (paragraph 7) and are referred to as -oil shales-. These dark
shales are assum-d to have generated the oil and gas sbows encountered in
the thin sand streaks scattered through the section. If a Miocene, rather
than an older age is confirmed, it is quite possible that older source
rocks exist at greater depths, such as the equivalent of the Kisangani
shales of Late Jurassic age. Similar shales of approximately the same age
are commonly mentioned as sources of the large hydrocarbon reserves in the
Coastal Basin (Angola, Zaire, Cabinda, etc.)
15.      Still older and deeper shales, equivalent to the Karroo Ecca with
remains of a Glossopteris flora, could well be preserved in the depths of
the graben. These shales could bave generated gas and possibly some oil.
Ecca Shales are reported in Uganda from the Kampala area (paragraph 11).
16.      In the absence of a deep well through the entire graben rock
section, the presence of locally well developed reservoir rocks can only be
surmised. It is quite conceivable that some of the sands which are thinly
developed near the eastern edges of the graben for instance near Butiaba,
can increase considerably in thickness in the depocenters which seem to
exist basinward within the graben.
Structural Set-up
17.      As already indicated (paragraph 3), the Western Rift Depression
or Western Rift Valley corresponds to the northern portion of the
Tangayika Graben which abruptly ends at the Sudanese border against an
important tectonic feature, the Aswa Lineament or Shear Zone. This Shear
Zone can be traced along hundreds of kilometers up to the Indian Ocean near
Malindi. The graber extends southward in a roughly north to south
direction (180 ki) before sharply turning into a northeast-southwest trend
(450 ka long) up to the border with Rwanda, where the Recent Viruaga
volcnitc system takes over and hides the continuity between the northern
portion (Lake Albert) and southern portion (Lake Tanganyika) of the
Tanganyika Graben.
18.      The graben, a typical pull-apart structural feature, is boond on
each side by gravity faults. In a cross-profile, it is usually
asymmetrical, in that the faulting is alternately more pronomnced in one
flank than in the opposite. The width of the graben at the surface varies
from around 30 km to 50 km, and its depth can reach more than 3,500 m.
19.      So far, the graben has been poorly studied and few structural
details are known. The recently completed regional airmag survey indicates
the occurrence of several depocenters, which may correspond to structural
elements within the graben. The most important feature appears to be the
Ruwez ori Mountains bDrst block, along the northern and western flanks of
which oil seeps are reported. Only the results of a general reconnaissance
seismic survey will unravel the various structural elements which can be
expected along a major graben. The oil industry has clearly indicated its
desire to uadertake seismic surveys soon, as a first step for petroleum



-40-                        Annex TV
Page 4 of 5
exploration. Hopefully, the results vill provide the information necessary
to the understanding of the Western Rift Depression often referred to as
the Lake Mobutu/Albert graben.
Previous Exploration Efforts
20.      The Kiboro oil seeps were first visited in 1919 and reported in
1925. The Anglo-Persian Co. applied for a concession over the Lake Albert
area in 1926, but as a result of a geological inspection in 1928, the
concession was relinquished in 1930.
l
21.      The African and European Investment Co. of Johannesburg was
granted a concession in 1937 of approximately 1,384 sq mi of flats around
Lake Albert and in 1938 an additional area of about 1,190 sq mi of the lake
itself. Eleven structure tests were drilled near Butiaba, and later a deep
test, the B1 well, went down to 4,043 ft. Finally, an additional string
of nine wells was drilled before the core drill rig was moved southward of
the lake near the oil sand outcrops. There another ten holes were drilled;
the two deepest ones were K1 to 2,245 ft, and K2 to 855 ft. Only wells 4
and 4a located near the oil sand outcrop found hydrocarbon shows.
Subsequent to this unsuccessful effort, the company relinquished its rights
in 1940.
22.      The Geological Survey of Uganda carried out an exploration program
between 1948 and 1951, which consisted of field geology, gravity surveys,
and drilling of 13 shallow stratigraphic tests averaging about 1,000 ft.
This program was halted when it became clear that deeper drilling was
necessary.
23.      In 1971, Comoro Exploration Co. of New York signed an exploration
agreement and carried out some work, but failed to live up to the work
program and thus the concession expired.
24.      Thus, the drilling of some 45 wells, most of which (95%) were
shallow and only one of which went through perhaps the upper 15-20Z of the
expected stratigraphic section, has not tested the graben, particularly in
its depocenters where appropriate structural features combined with
adequate lithology can be expected.
Petroleus Potential
25.      The occurrence of oil and gas seeps are a certain indication that
thermodynamic conditions were favorable to the generation of hydrocarbons.
An oil shale analysis which gives a total carbon content of 6.7X indicates
the occurrence of an excellent source rock; also some free oil with a 0.7X
content in sulfur was extracted from the same sample of the Bi well.
26.      With a rather low thermal gradient (2.05 C or 1.125 F) for the B1
well, the top of the oil window (the interval in which oil is thought to be
generated) is reached around 2,000 m or 6,560 ft. With expected depths in
the graben greater than 4,000 m or 13,000 ft, there are indeed extensive
areas with a large rock volue sufficient to have the capability of
generating bydrocarbons in commercial quantities provided appropriate traps
and reservoirs are available.



-41 -                       Anex IV
Page 5 of 5
27.      The five prerequisites for a sedimentary basin to be declared
prospective are known to exist in the Western Rift Depression: (a) source
rocks; (b) reservoir rocks, (c) protective rocks; (d) sedimentary thickness
over 10,000 ft to ensure proper maturation conditions and sufficient volme
of potential oil resources, and (e) appropriate structuration for trap
development. Even if the big picture is still sketchy due to lack of
detailed studies, the presence of the prerequisites in combination with the
graben situation makes the Western Rift Depression a very attractive area
and a prime prospective feature.



-42-                        Anex V
UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PRONOTION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Provision of Exploration Licenses
Closing Date, Submission of Bids for Licenses       April 15, 1985
Completion of Bid Evaluation                        May 1, 1985
Signing of Licenses                                 September 1, 1985
Evaluation and Renegotiation of Licenses            September 1, 1989
Execution of Lake Victoria Survey
Project Probe Decision on Seismic Survey            May 1985
Completion Seismic Survey                           September 1985
Second Promotion Exploration Meeting                     September 1986



-43                          Annex VI
UGANDA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA                Quarter                Quarterly           Cumulative
Fiscal Year            Ending               Disbursements       Disbursements
US$ million
1985186        September 30, 1985              .2                   .2
December 31, 1985               .2                  .4
March 31, 1986                  .3                  .7
June 30, 1986                   .3                 1.0
1986/87        September 30, 1986              .3                 1.3
December 31, 1986               .3                 1.6
March 31, 1987                  .3                 1.9
June 30, 1987                   .3                 2.2
1987/88        September 30, 1987               .3                 2.5
December 31, 1987               .3                 2.8
March 31, 1988                  .3                 3.1
June 30, 1988                   .3                 3.4
1988/89        September 30, 1988              .3                 3.7
December 31, 1988               .3                 4.0
March 31, 1989                  .2                 4.2
June 30, 1989                   .2                 4.4
1989/90        September 30, 1989              .1                 4.5
December 31, 1989               .1                 4.6
March 31, 1990                  .2                 4.8
June 30, 1990                   .1                 4.9
1990/91        September 30, 1990              .1                 5.0
December 31, 1990               .1                 5.1
I



UGANDA                                                                                             /
S U D A N                                              /
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
PROMOTION PROJECT  ,.
_Xooslo~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 'K''u                                                                 ) 
-  ExpIovtIon Blocks Offewed                                  /NQRT E R 
" Edge of Graben                                               / ;
-Areas Surveyed bY Alrmag                                                        Al p'
S  Oryhole (e500m Deep)                                                                           I
A  Diesel Generating Stations                         J, |
A  Hydroelectric Generating Station    /       u       -U                 LU" 
-Main Paved Roads                                                                                            K)A
-        Other Main Roads         I                                                                    L    K/A
-Railways                                                     (I
International Airport  -             I                   v4 
*  National Capital
*  Provincial Headquarters                                 |                                        J
---ProvIndial Boundadie                                                          -
-  .IntemnatIonal Boundaries 
'~~ ~'  -.  I~ M,M AKi     /I                                 it t 
T   RN      >                ,                 -      t-  i
)/   D  w     \       _ _ _._2_.M   ._.  v_._._._.L
fE 17             1ig'g
k / /  #/ > / <~~~~~~' /  \<u s   o o> 
)    / JaiF ~~~~'   RwA Is D A   6     C 3  Jl h} ANI_A _            MIES a     2__W            d
>^ c r  v               1zzXr                       _       r    3r                       3r



D~~~ A 
<~~~~~~~~~i                                                                        K E N   Y A 
_Nrr.E,R
;S                        ,  _ , . ..   , ,    S  A~~~~A
}~~~~~~                      U O'-  N D /^U       A'iVc0t
SOUT r    Z VAN                               I AK     vrTOSI o  D 4        0         3N 
Z  T_  _/D Tb _-__t __> d f 8 !L S _ e r~~~SUDA
-b  y  ~~~~F_u_ _nS_ d !>a__f _S } } PUIL                               N.    t      r v.--
fJto } - -W r_ldl_*_____s~~~~AIRE                                      e D-  ._r  GAz  saf{
g[~~~~~a -T __d                20    er_        d_                    |      f40_ w2 Ro
NOEME  18






