CREDIT NUMBER 1561 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   30           1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1561 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    301'  3O          , 1985,
between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THLREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MLMWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Lands, Mineral
and Water Resources;
(c) "GSMD" means the Geological Survey and Mines Department
within MLMWR; and
(d) "Petroleum Unit" means the Petroleum Unit established
by the Borrower in GSMD on October 26, 1984.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Bank of
Uganda on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of $ection 4,02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1995, and ending November 1,
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2004 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MLMWR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and petroleum industry
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to by
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect i1
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
showing all proceeds from the sale of reports or information
produced or obtained under the Project; and
(b) make available funds for financing further studies,
surveys or exploration for hydrocarbons in Uganda or for the
strengthening of GSMD, if justified, up to an amount at least
equivalent  to   the  aggregate  sale  proceeds  raferred  to  in
paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINSEC                              61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vicehredent
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods                      490,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2) Consultants'             1,660,000          100%
Services
(3) Geophysical                620,000          100%
surveys
(4) Training                  310,000          100% of foreign
expeditures
(5) Project Adminis-           123,000          100% of foreign
tration                                    expenditures
(6) Special Account           320,000          Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 5 to
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated              1,677,000
TOTAL              5,200,000


﻿-8-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures-prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) the promotion of hydrocarbon exploration in Uganda by the oil
industry; and (ii) the strengthening of GSMD in the administra-
tion and supervision of exploration promotion, exploration and
development of petroleum resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Petroleum Exploration Promotion
1.   Preparation of promotional reports and documents on national
petroleum potential for sale to interested parties.
2.   Definition and preparation of an exploration strategy and
carrying out of a promotion meeting, as appropriate.
3.   Evaluation of proposals of, and preparation for discussions
of proposals with interested parties.
Part B:   Surveys
1.   Carrying out of geophysical surveys, geologic field work,
appropriate, geochemical studies and photogeologic studies.
Part C:   Training
Training of the Borrower's staff involved in the carrying
out of petroleum-related activities and the administration and
supervision of such activities.
Part D:   Rehabilitation of GSMD
Rehabilitation of transportation, office and laboratory
equipment of GSMD including the acquisition of vehicles and
materials.
Part E:   Project Administration
1.   Carrying out of audits of the project accounts.


﻿- 10 -
2.   Carrying out of contacts with oil industry representatives
including visits overseas by the Borrower's staff involved with
petrole=m-related activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- - 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Gravity survey work shall be procured under contracts,
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August
1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods shall be grouped in bidding packages to
the maximum extent practicable and may be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the


﻿- 12 -
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ exploration consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected   in  accordance  with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory-to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   In order to assLst the Borrower in the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain at least until the comple-
tion of the Project the Petroleum Unit established by it in GSMD
headed by the Commissioner of Geological Surveys and Mines and
assisted by a Project Coordinator, geophysicists, geologists, an
accountant and an administrative officer whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association and with an
adequate number of support staff.
2.   For the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the exploration consultants referred to in
Part II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement to
prepare, by not later than September 30, 1985, for approval by
the Borrower and the Association, a training program for the
Borrower's staff. Upon review and approval of the program by the
Association, the Borrower shall implement the training program as
so approved.
3.   In order to assist the Borrower in the auditing of Project
amounts required pursuant to Article IV to the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall employ auditors in accordance with
the provisions of Part II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) to (5) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 15 -
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) to (5), and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the B6rTower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragrqph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) to (5) for the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) to (5) for the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of


﻿- 16 -
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments f or
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
tequired to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    0       day of  LL      ,
198 5
FOR SECRETARY


