TDue  ct
The World Bank
FOX OMCAL USE ONLY
Rewi No. 5747
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 580-TA)
June 28, 1985
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
Thi iocmmt k a rutuckd dtLudem m_d  y be used by uekdples Y mli  the peufonmc of
tbdr gUru d h Ias eomob my dM  eise be d_da ed witha Wod BDak 2uihodimn



ABBREVIATIONS
AI       =     Artificial Insemination
CDL            Coastal Dairies Industries
DAFCO    =     Dairy Farming Company
DANIDA   =     Danish Aid Agency
ECF      =     East Coast Fever
EEC      =     European Economic Community
ERR      =     Ecovomic Rate of Return
Fl       =     First Generation from Cross Breeding
FMD      =     Foot and Mouth Disease
FRR      =     Financial Rate of Return
GDP      =     Gross Domestic Product
GOT      =     Government of Tanzania
IBRD     =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      =     International Development Association
KG       =     Kilogram
KNCU     =     Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union
KUC      =     Kilimanjaro Uremi Corporation
LIDA     =     Livestock Development Authority
MIFUGO   =     Livestock Development Division, Ministry of Agriculture
MOA      =     Ministry of Agriculture
NAIC     =     National Artificial Insemination Center
NARCO    =     National Agricultural and Food Corporation
NCCO     =     National Cold Chain Operation
NMC      =     National Milling Corporation
PCR      =     Project Completion Report
RMEA     =     Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (World Bank)
SAR      =     Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA     =     Swedish Aid Agency
TAC      =     Tanzania Audit Corporation
TDL      =     Tanzania Dairies Limited
TSA      =     Tanzania Sisal Authority
TRDB     =     Tanzania Rural Development Bank
WFP      =     World Food Programme



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Abbreviations
Preface ..............................
Basic  Data    Sheet   .........  .  .......... 00 6........................... (i
Summary of Highlights ....................................... . (iii)
I.     INTRODUCTION ...................  ..o.................. a............  I
II.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .o..   2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE ...... 4
IV.    PROJECT IMPACT .......................... 19
V.     FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE o .    ...............................   21
VI.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ...-   ....... 23
VII.   BANK PERFORMANCE ........... ...... .         ...... o.... 24
VIII.  ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ............................... 25
IX.    CONCLUSIONS ...............            .......................... 26
TABLES
1.    Credit and Project Summary
2.     Summary of Annual Project Costs: (a) Project Components
(b) Category of Expenditure
(c) Summary
3.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.     Key Indicators - Targets
5.     Production Co-efficients : Parastatal Farms
6.     Fully Stocked Parameters : Actual vs. Appraisal
7.     (a) Milk Prices
(b) Farmgate Prices in Real Terms
8.     Summary of TDL Plant 1976-81 : Fresh & Reconstituted Milk
9.     Grant of Imported Raw Materials from 1975 to Date
10.    TRDB Loan Portfolios : Smallholders and Ujamaas
11.    TRDB : Loan Status of Parastatal Dairy Farms
12.    Operating Statement Summary : Parastatal Dairy Farms
13.    Analysis of Operating Costs (1981) : Parastatal Dairy Farms
Map
This document has a resticed distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performanoe of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This PCR is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 765-TA, May 23, 1975); the President's Report (No. P-1661-TA,
June 18, 1975); the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement
dated August 15, 1975; supervision reports; internal reviews of project
progress by the Ministry of Agriculture (1980) and LIDA Technical Services
(1982); relevant correspondence and information co-.tained in the RMEA
files; and a mission to Tanzania in April-May .984 to collect additional
data and discuss preliminary findings w%.ch officials in concerned
agencies.
The PCR was submitted to OED for review but the Project was
not selected for audit. The PCR was sent to the Government for comments on
March 4, 1985 but none were received.



PROJWCT PERF0r _C5  AUDIT RSC DATA SWLET
DAIRY DWVtLOAPEM   PROJECT (CCDIT 540-TA)
KEY PROJZCT DATA
Appraital             Actul or               Actal an  of
C tiate            Litiated Actual *l  Aspraiml Betilate  a/
Project Coats (USS million)                      15.3                     n.&.                    -
Cre4it Aount (MO mill. on)                       10.0                     h.8                     an
Dieburmed   )                                  10.0                     8.6                    8sx
Repaid      ) to March 31. 1963
Outstanding )
Cancell.d                                                               1.2                     122
Date N gotiatione
Date Board Approval                            6/30/71                  6/30175
Date Effactivana.                              9130175                 11113175
Date Physical Coopow.nte Completed             4130/J1                  3/31183
Closing Date                                   4130/61                  3/31/83
Proportlnn then completed (E)
Economic Rate of Return (2) a/                   18S              probably negative
CUMULATIVE DISBURSSEErNTS
FY75    FY76     nn7      FY73     n 79    FY80       nu       FY82      FY63
ApDriesal Eatiqate (USS million)                  1.0     4.7      7.9       9.1     10.0    10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0
Actual (IlLS million)                             -       0.1       1.3      2.8      3.4      4.0      4.4       5.4      8 
Actual me 2 of Appralmal (S)                      Ox      2S       162       312      342       ns      44        542     844
Date of Final Diabursauent: March 4th, 1963
MISSION DATA
Month/       eNo. n       Kandays      Speciallzationo          Porfar _                      Type of
Miasion             Year           Per on     i n  ield     pay-rcntd b/              Ratiag C/      Trand dA      Problem  I
Apuraioal          09/10/74           6         168        FA(2)EC. LIV(2). EKC
Superw1sion I      11/75. 06/76       2          19          LnT/rC                      2              2           M. T. P
Supervision 1I     01/77              3          is          LII/DAI                     2              2           P. F
Supervielon III    06-08/77           2          Is          LITADU                      2              2           P. M
Supervision TV     02-03/78           1           9          LIV                         2              1          P. M
Supervision V      11/78, 01/79       3          23          LIV/DAI/FA                  2              3           F. M
Supervision Vl    04-05/79            2          24          LIT/lWI                     3              3           F. M. T
Sunerviajon VII   12/79               2          14          ACIR/D&                     3              1           F. H
Supervicion VIII  05/80               1          14          am                          3              1           F, M. T
Supervidson IX     11/80              2          24          ACR/FA                      2              1           F. M
Supervislon X      07161              2          28          AOl/IA                      2              1           F. II
Supervision XI    01/82               2          28          ACR/IC                      2              2           F. N. P
Supervision Ul   07-08/82             2          36          "IX/IC                      I              2           P. M. T. P
Supervision X111    01/83             2          14          ACIVDC                      2              I           F. K. T. P
CTM  PROJECT DATA
BorroCer                           Government of Tanzania
Execucing Agecies                 'Unietry of Agriculture. Tanzania Imral Developmmnt Rank tTRDII and the Datry Parring Coeany
Fiscal Year of Borrower           April I -Mrch 31
Name of Carrency (Abbreviation) - Mob.
Currency Exchange  ates:          OSSI.00   7.1
Appraisal Year Average         USSL.00 - 6.2
Inervening Years Average      USS1.00 - 12.4
Pollow-on Project:
a/ Me 1-iformtion available from COT on final project eAet-; It baa therefore not been poasible to re-calculate the financial and
economic rates of return.
b/ ACR - Agricultualist; EC - Agricultural Economist; 5A -    inancial Amalyat; LM  - Livestock SpecIaliet; DAI - Daisy comealtant:
ENc - Dairy Proceaaing Engineer.
cl I - Problem free: 2 - !arate problems; 3 - Major peoble.
d/ I - Improving; 2 - Stationary: 3 - Detertorating.
el F - Financial: M - Management: T - Technical; P - Political.



-iii -
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.        The Project was the tenth Bank Group supported operation to
assist agricultural development in Tanzania and the third in the livestock
subsector. It was conceived as an integral part of the Government's
long-term program for the improvement of dairy farming in Tanzania. The
Project, to be implemented over a five year period, comprised
rehabilitation and expansion of commercial dairy farming on nine
parastatal farms, improvement of milk collection, processing and
distribution facilities, development of the traditional dairy sector in 50
ujamaa villages, breeding of improved dairy heifers, technical services
and applied investigation work for animal disease control, and future
project preparation. It was an Import-substitution project designed to
reduce the increasing amount of foreign exchange being spent by Tanzania
in importing milk and dairy products to meet a rising urban demand.
2.        The Project, prepared by the Government, was appraised in the
field in September-October 1974, and negotiated in Washington in May
1975. The IDA Credit of $10 million was to finance 65% of total project
costs ($15.3 million), including all foreign exchange costs and 33% of
local costs excluding taxes and duties. The balance was to be financed by
GOT, parastatal corporations and ujamaa villages.
3.        The Project encountered major problems throughout its
implementation. It was executed against the backdrop of a rapidly
deteriorating economy, where the general climate for increased
agricultural production was extremely poor (para. 3.28[g]). Parastatal
farms under tl.e Project consistently operated at a loss, with high
overhead and administrative costs (para. 3.27). As the supply of
concentrates, food, fuel and spare parts worsened, farm managers often
spent considerable portions of their time away from their farms searching
for these essential items. This distracted them from day-to-day farm
management and contributed to low productivity. Moreover, with increasing
scarcity of commodities in an inflationary environment, the only way
parastatal farms could make a profit was by selling milk on the parallel
market. This, in turn, provided opportunities and inducements for
misappropriation of official funds. In fact, the parastatal farms'
financial records were so poor and questionable and the quality of their
management so deficient that an RMEA supervision mission in 1979 seriously
considered recommending termination of the Project, and finally in 1982 an
independent financial analyst had to be brought in (at IDA's insistence)
to improve on-farm record keeping and the general standard of accounting
(para. 3.25). The state of accounts, however, continues to be poor: no
financial statements have been prepared so far for 1982 and 1983, and it
is impossible to obtain an accurate breakdown of total Project costs.



iv -
4.        At the same time, the Project's ujamaa component never really
took off. Peasant producers, demoralised by the villagization policy
which tried to force them to produce officially-controlled cash crops
under unfavorable conditions, had retreated into food production. They
were not receptive to any further government intrusions into their
economy, and it is hardly surprising that the ujamaas did not show much
enthusiasm in taking up loans for dairy development (para. 3.28[e]). Once
this was apparent, the Project was redesigned to allow TRDB, as the
on-lending channel, to support a number of i-adividual smallholders, but
again with limited success. Other improve,rtents in the collection,
processing and supply components of the Project were effected smoothly hut
became less important as there was little increase in commercial milk
production.
5.        IDA supervision missions from 1976 to 1983 correctly identified
technical and other constraints impeding project implementation and
repeatedly suggested corrective actions- (paras. 3.06-3.27). The
constraints included: a lack of locally available cattle to stock dairy
farms, poor husbandry which reduced the quality and output of available
stock, low milk prices, poor on-farm training, improper record keeping and
cost budgeting on farms, non-existent financial controls, few incentives
for staff motivation, ineffective technical assistance and high overhead
costs, among other factors. However, many of these constraints were also
symptomatic of general government policies and of larger cAses in the
Tanzanian economy and hence were beyond the scope of the Project to
resolve. Even where solutions were applied, such as four successive
increases in milk prices, they were conceded with reluctance by GOT and
were too little and too late to have much of an impact. Given the
consistently higher price of milk on the parallel market over that paid by
TDL (Tanzania Dairy Limited), the milk-buying parastatal, there was little
incentive for producers to sell at official prices. Consequently, the
financial viability of the ProJect remained precarious and the parastatal
dairy farms showed few signs of being able to support themselves.
6.        Under the circumstances described above, it is hardly surprising
that the formal market sector could not capture significant portions of
any food produced, including milk, for distrihution to urban consumers.
Tncreases in commercial milk production during the period of Project
implementation were much smaller than targets and are prohably not
sustainable. The appraisal goal was to iacrease the contribution to
domestic commercial milk supply from 3 million liters in 1976 to 5 million
liters by 1985, with an annual incremental project production by year
seven of 9 million liters. As of 1982, the parastatal farms were
contributing only an incremental 3.1 million liters to the domestic
commercial supply. TDL's total intake of fresh milk actually decreased by
20% from 1976 to 1983, while imported milk products as a percentage of
total throughput increased by 7% over this period (para 4.01).



-v -
7.        In the absence of reliable accounts, it is, of course, difficult
to say what part of milk production on parastatal farms was understated
and heifer mortality over-reported to hide sales on the parallel market.
The &ignificance of these factors in comparison, say, to technical
constraints, husbandry and poor management, is difficult to quantify.
Nevertheless, it is probably fair to say that the Project has not had a
significant impact on smallholder incomes and nutrition. Project costs
were higher than originally estimated and any benefits that are likely to
accrue will come over a much longer development period than anticipated at
appraisal. The economic rate of return on project investments is
therefore low at best and possibly even negative.
8.        It is possible to argue that: (a) the Project turned a number of
run-down dairy farms into functioning entities; (b) there has been a
spillover of dairy cattle from the parastatals into the smallholder
sector; and (c) the existence of large-scale farms allowed for the
importation of cattle and an upgrading of the domestic stock wnich could
not have been undertaken by smallholders and may improve dairying over the
long run (para. 4.03). Nevertheless, it remains true that dairy
development through parastatals has proved to be too expensive and
cumbersome to justify the costs, especially given that most of Tanzania's
domestic milk supply is still produced by smallholders. If smallholder
production near urban areas had been supported and the price had been
right, it is possible that the commercial supply of milk to the cities
could have been increased with fewer costs, lower overheads, and with a
minimum of management problems (though the difficulties of providing
extension, health and marketing services to small farmers should not be
minimized).
9.        A major lesson of the Project is that attempts to appraise or
implement projects without carefully taking account of the likely effects
of the general economic environment may lead to false assumptions,
unrealistic expectations and ultimate failure. The Bank shauld be
particularly cautious about developing large-scale, technically demanding
projects in situations where the absorptive capacity of the economy is low
(para. 7.01). A more feasible approach under such circumstances might
have been: (a) to have developed a small-scale pilot project in an area or
areas where the supporting infrastructure was available; and (b) to phase
further project development so that heifers were available, pasture was
developed, and management was trained, before expecting the dairy farms to
operate as individual profit units. Had the Project been approached more
cautiously, it is unlikely that the appraisal report would have assumed
that sufficient heifers were available locally to stock the dairy farms or
would have expected them to attain so many challenging targets (para.
9.01-9.03). Moreover, though the appraisal report correctly identified
the -principal risk  of the Project as management, it did not offer much
in the way of remedies. More attention to this issue at appraisal could
at least have led to closer examination of the existing management
structure (including the role of parastatals) and more specific proposals
for allowing project managements reasonable autonomy in operational
decision making and staffing policies.



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT FROJECT (CREDIT 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Introduction
1.01     Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. At the time of appraisal, roughly 40%
of GDP was derived from this sector, of which 50% constituted subsistence
production. Agricultural products accounted for 80% of total exports.
About 94% of the population lived in rural areas, and 90% of the
economically active people were engaged in agriculture.
1.02     Tanzania's development policy as it evolved in the late 1960s
and early 1970s aimed to provide increased support for agricultural
production, with emphasis on rural development and equity. Policies
intended to improve agricultural production during this period included,
directly productive investment to develop parastatal farms, compulsory
villagization of the rural population, administrative decentralization,
and changes in the marketing of crops through government parastatals.
The overall result was a profound dislocation of rural life, with
resulting declines in output.
1.03     Within the agricultural sector, dairy development was accorded
priority for economic, social and nutritional reasons. The dairy
industry was relatively underdeveloped, but was viewed as having high
potential due to geography, climate and past experience with cattle
husbandry. A small commercial dairy sector was engaged in modern dairy
farming, using almost exclusively non-indigenious dairy cattle. A few
farms were privately owned, but most were run by parastatal farms,
serving commercial dairies primarily in the Arusha-Kilimanjaro-Dar es
Salaam areas. Commercial dairy production had declined to approximately
10 million liters in 1973 due to the departure of non-African farmers and
low milk prices, with many farms in need of urgent rehabilitation. The
largest volume of milk (approximately 475 million liters) was produced by
traditional cattle owners, with half going to cattle and the remainder for
human consumption. A few traditional cattle owners and a limited number
of ujamaa villages also produced milk for sale.
1.04     Despite rapidly rising urban demand, raw milk sales to the two
major dairies declined from 8 million liters to 5.5 million liters
between 1969 and 1973. At the same time, imports of dairy products had
increased from TSh 19 million (US$ 2.7 million) in 1962 to TSh 70 million
(US$ 9.8 million) in 1973, and accounted for 24% of all food imports.
The Government's strategy for dairy development sought to reverse these
trends by developing large scale parastatal dairy farms to substitute for
imported milk products and, over the longer term, developing dairy units
in villages throughout Tanzania to provide milk for the rural population.
The Project was designed to be in line with this strategy and, at full



-2-
development, was expected to save the country TSh 20 million (US$ 2.7
million) annually in foreign exchange spent on imports.
1.05     Responsibility for implementing the dairy development program
rested in the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo), whose Livestock
Development Division (Mifugo) had policy responsibility for all matters
relating to livestock and dairy. Mifugo carried out its policies through
its research, training, husbandry, extension and veterinary departments
and through parastatal corporations these parastatals were under the
management of the Livestock Development Authorith (LIDA) the National
Ranching Company (NARCO), the Dairy Farming Company (DAFCO), and Tanzania
Dairies Limited (TDL). DAFCO had responsibility for developing
large-scale dairy farms, and TDL for developing and managing commercial
milk collection, processing and distribution. NARCO operated beef ranches
and breeding ranches. In addition, the Tanzania Sisal Corporation (TSC)
operated beef ranches and dairy farms in the Tanga region as part of its
diversification program. The Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union (KNCU)
and the National Agricultural and Food Corporation (NAFCO) also operated
dairy farms. The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was the primary
financial vehicle for promoting agricultural credit. Operating on
commercial principles, TRDB handled short and medium-term credit to
farmers, provided some technical assistance to farmers, and had
historically served as the main channel for IDA funds in previous Credits.
II. Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
IdeniAfication and Preparation
2.01     The project was prepared by the Government, which submitted a
loan application to IBRD in june 1974. The Government's original project
proposal included 41 large-scale dairy units, clie purchase of 5,000
imported friesian dairy heifers, and the estab_ishment of a pilot Disease
Free Zone to control foot-and-mouth disease (FMD).
Appraisal
2.02     The Project was appraised in September/October 1974 by a team
comprised of five Bank staff and a consultant from FAO. During
appraisal, it was agreed that for technical, financial and management
reasons, the first phase of the Project should develop only 17
large-scale units. The mission recommended against any cattle
importation, because of the high death risk involved. It was assumed
that the proposed heifer breeding unit would be able to provide an
adequate supply of upgraded cattle within a few years. The mission also
concluded that the establishment of a Disease Free Zone was not justified
in economic terms at the time, due to lack of evidence on the impact of
FMD on productivity in the traditional herd. The program of applied
investigation work included in the Project was designed to address this
issue.



-3-
r
2.03     The Project was to represent the first stage of a long-term
program to develop dairy farming in Tanzania. It would, over five years,
support dairy production on parastatal farms, improve milk collection,
processing and distribution facilities, and provide the basis for dairy
development in the traditional sector by supporting a pilot ujamaa dairy
program and by producing upgraded dairy heifers. Specifically, the
Project included the following components:
(a)      Large Dairy Farms.  Seven new dairy units were to be established
and ten existing units rehabilitated and expanded (each with about 350
cows) at a total of nine locations near existing or planned dairy
processing plants. The farms would be run as commercial ventures by DAFCO
and other parastatals (see para. 2.05), following modern intensive dairy
farming practices with predominantly non-indigenous cattle and a high
degree of mechanization. The farms were to serve as a rucleus for
development of farming techniques applicable to different regions and
geographic conditions, and for training managers and farmers in dairy
farming. Items to be financed included buildings and installations, water
development, equipment for pasture development, fodder production and
preservation, milking machines, cooling equipment, vehicles, cattle, and
working capital.
(b)      -Ujamaa' Dairy Farms.  20 small dairy units (each of about 20
cows) -were to be developed on a pilot basis in 50 ujamaa villages. The
units would be based on upgraded cattle from the heifer breeding unit and
run as commercial ventures. TRDB would be responsible for preparing
investment plans and supervising the units. Since the development
entailed the risk of animal death, alternative sources of cash revenue
were to be used to service the loans.
(c)      Heifer Breeding Unit.  A breeding unit was to be established to
produce 1,800 dairy heifers for sale to parastatal dairy farms,
individual farms and ujamaa villages. The breeding program would be
based on artificial insemination with imported semen from pedigree dairy
bulls.
(d)      Milk Collection and Processing.  Milk collection systems in Dar
es Salaam and Arusha were to be improved by locating collection centers
on dairy farms which would also serve small producers. Processing and
distribution facilities were to be expanded, obsolete equipment replaced,
production bottlenecks removed, and vehicles provided to improve milk
distribution.
(e)      Technical Assistance.  A total of 30 manyears of technical
assistance were to be provided, including: (i) within LIDA, the services
of dairy farm group managers, a manager for the heifer breeding unit,
specialists on machinery maintenance, dairy husbandry and pasture
improvement, a dairy economist, and consultants on irrigation, processing
and farm structures; (ii) within TRDB, a project preparaEion team
consisting of a livestock specialist, an agriculturalist, an animal
resources and extension specialist, a pasture specialist and other
experts; and (iii) within the Ministry of Agriculture's Livestock
Development Division, a veterinary economist to conduct a program of



-4-
applied investigational work for animal disease control. Specialists
recruited under (i) above were to be specifically charged with training
Tanzanian managers and developing management systems and administrative
procedures.
2.04     Detailed lists of Project components and costs are presented in
Tables 1 and 2, and the estimated disbursements schedule is shown in
Table 3. Total Project costs were estimated at US$ 15.3 million
equivalent. The IDA Credit of US$ 10.0 million was to finance 65% of the
total Project costs, including all foreign exchange costs and 33% of
local costs excluding taxes and duties. The balance was to be financed
by GOT, parastatal corporations and ujamaa villages.
2.05     The Ministry of Agriculture had overall responsibility for
Project implementation. The proposed dairy units were to be owned by
DAFCO (8 units), KNCU (3 units), TSC (5 units) and NAFCO (1 unit), while
LIDA was to be responsible for coordinating their management. TRDB with
the regional livestock staff was to be responsible for the ujamaa dairy
program, NARCO would establish the heifer breeding unit, and TDL was to
be responsible for the milk collection and processing component. The
Ministry of Agriculture, L!DA and TRDB would direct and coordinate
technical services. LIDA would oversee and monitor project
implementation through a iroject Coordinator, and LIDA's Board of
Directors, which had members from all agencies involved in the Project,
was to serve as the Project Coordination Committee.
Agreements Reached
2.06     During negotiations in Washington in May 1975, assurances were
obtained that all the parastatals involved in the Project would maintain
separate financial records and accounts for Project-related activities.
Each dairy unit was to be treated as a commercial enterprise or profit
center. Assurances were also obtained that farm investment plans and the
development plan for the heifer breeding unit would be subject to IDA
approval, that detailed plans for ujamaa dairy development and for
applied investigational work on animal disease control would be submitted
to IDA for comment, that LIDA would consult with IDA on the appointment
of group managers and farm managers, and that consultations on milk price
levels would be held with IDA on at least an annual basis. Execution of
a subsidiary loan agreement between GOT and TRDB and recruitment of at
least three group managers for dairy farms were conditions of Credit
effectiveness.
III. Project Implementation and Operating Performance
Effectiveness and Start-Up
3.01     The Credit was declared effective on November 13, 1975 and a
start-up mission visited Tanzania in November-December 1975. Four farm
managers who had been identified were interviewed and found suitable.



-5-
LIbA had prepared plans for the development of various dairy farms which
were criticized by TRDB as 'desk exercises" on which the parastatal
boards and farm managers had not been consulted. TRDB also complained
that LIDA was not complying with many of its lending procedures,
including a clause requiring proof of land ownership by the parastatals.
This was the beginning of a major bottleneck to disbursements and also
reflected the difficult relationship between the two major parastatals
handling the Project. LIDA was making plans to import a large number of
cattle possibly from Kenya, Zambia and Australia, but indicated that it
was not convinced that cattle could not be procured locally. There was
also some disagreement over the need for milking parlors and milking
machines: LIDA's Managing Director wanted them on all 17 farms while the
mission felt they were suitable for only four farms. As a compromise, it
was agreed to procure the original eight included at appraisal. LIDA had
not yet prepared plans for the heifer breeding unit, the artificial
insemination unit (on which the Project depended) financed by SIDA was
behind schedule, and little other progress had been made. In retrospect,
the start-up mission's findings were a microcosm of many problems which
later came to haunt the Project.
Implementation
3.02     Summary.  Tables 4-6 summarize actual physical achievements
every year under the Project in comparison with appraisal targets. Farm
development proceeded satisfactorily but most of the other Project
components lagged well behind appraisal targets. Of the 17 large-scale
farms to be established at nine sites, 15 units (representing 12 farms)
were actually developed at eight sites. However, for a long time TRDB
did not disburse f=nds to DAFCO because the latter did not have title
deeds as security for loans to its dairy farms. Two further units were
also approved but were not financed by the Credit. The original heifer
breeding unit was considered financially non-viable for a TRDB loan and
dropped from the Project (plans for a smaller breeding unit were later
approved in 1981 and implemented through bilateral aid). Of the 50
proposed ujamaa village units, only six were eventually implemented.
Changes in the Credit Agreement in 1981 added a smallhold'- component of
80 beneficiaries. By January 1983, TRDB had approved 57 loans for 87
cattle, but only 45 cattle had been supplied to 32 farms (a further 26
loans were approved by November 1983). TRDB also approved a loan in
March 1976 of TSh 4,286,000 to TDL to rehabilitate the Dar es Salaam milk
plant and double its daily processing capacity to 90,000 liters.
Additional loans amounting to TSh 790,700 were approved to purchase a new
ice water plant in 1979 and to install a new boiler in 1982. A further
loan of TSh 4,162,000 was approved for the Arusha plant. Twelve of the
16 technical assistance posts were filled but were all financed by
bilateral sources outside the Credit. Funds originally intended for
technical services were used to finance accounting services and
vehicles. Three short-term courses of 3-4 months each and one long-term
course were also funded. A team of four veterinarians, including two
Tanzanians, examined the possibility of establishing a Disease Control
Zone in the Lukwa region. The fieldwork was complemented by training two
Tanzanians abroad.



-6-
3.03     Progress in Disbursements.  At all stages, disbursements from
the Credit lagged well behind the planned schedule. Initial reasons for
this included delays of up to two years in preparation and approval of
farm plans and in procurement and distribution of farm machinery,
inadequate security for TRDB loans, delay in completion of management
agreements between farm beneficiaries, change in ownership of KNCU farms
to KUC (see para. 3.05 below), lack of budgetary provision for working
capital for DAFCO in 1976 and 1977, and IDA's initial reluctance to
approve the external purchase of cattle and subsequent delays in
importation (especially due to closure of the border with Kenya). From
1980, non-payment of interest by the parastatal dairy farms on TRDB loans
led it to suspend further disbursements on these loans. Finally, between
June and November 1982, the Project was affected by the temporary
suspension of all World Bank Group disbursements to Tanzania.
3.04     Due to the delays in release of Credit funds for one or more of
the above reasons, GOT grants and World Food Programme (WFP) funds were
often used to prop up the Project through the financing of not only
operating and maintenance expenses on parastatal farms but also a good
deal of investment in farm infrastructure (staff housing, farm building,
and water supply). This reduced the amount ultimately contributed by the
Credit. Thus, only US$ 4.8 million (48%) out of the Credit had been
disbursed by the original Closing Date of April 30, 1981. Additional
procurement (mainly of heifers and spare parts) and followup on
disbursement applications from TRDB and other agencies increased total
disbursements from the Credit to US$ 8.8 million by the extended Closing
Date of March 31, 1983. The major share of Project investments went into
farm machinery and the purchase of cattle.
3.05     Amendments to Legal Agreements.  A number of amendments were
made to the Credit and Project Agreements in the course of
implementation. Originally, IDA had agreed to finauce 80Z of all subloan
disbursements by TRDB. Because of Tanzania's serious foreign exchange
constraints, the Credit Agreement was amended on June 24, 1976 to allow
IDA to finance 100% of TRDB's disbursements in foreign exchange (and 60%
in local currency) so that procurement of imports would not be held up.
An amendment to the Project Agreement at the same time required each of
the five dairy farm group managers to report directly to the management
of the respective parastatal beneficiary. Later, the functions of the
Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union (KNCU) were taken over by the
Kilimanjaro Uremi Corporation (KUC), which also assumed responsibility
for two dairy farms. The Project Agreement was amended on July 5, 1977
to reflect this change. On April 12, 1978, the Credit Agreement was
again amended to reflect the need for importation of dairy cattle.
Another amendment on August 15, 1980, recognizing the financial plight of
the parastatal farms, allowed them 20 rather than 15 years to repay their
loans, with a grace period of five instead of four years. At the same
time, smallholder dairy units (in addition to ujamaa villages) were
allowed to become recipients of TRDB loans and two new dairy production
units at Kitulo and a milk plant at I4beya were brought under the Credit
(subject to satisfactory farm plans and feasibility study,
respectively). A final set of amendments on January 14, 1982 extended
the Closing Date from April 30, 1981 to March 31, 1983, phased out three
problem farms (at Gararagua, Bagamoyo and Ngerengere) following a review



-7-
of their performance in April 1981 and alleged financial mismanagement,
reduced the total number of parastatal farms from 17 to 12, and
redirected the funds allocated for the Mbeya milk plant to the
replacement and renovation of equipment at the Arusha milk plant.
Chronology of Implementation
3.06     A -farm evaluation' mission in June 1976 was followed by a
supervision mission in January 1977. By this time, eight groups of
parastatal dairy farms had been established (compared to four estimated
at appraisal), milk production was in line with expectations, and
satisfactory progress had been made in building fences, water
reticulation, land clearing and fodder conservation. However, most other
components of the Project were experiencing serious problems. The major
difficulty was a lack of adequate working capital for which no provision
had been made in DAFCO's budget; TRDB, on its part, was refusing to
disburse until rights of occupancy were established for each beneficiary
farm. The ujamaa component was also not doing well: no projects had been
submitted to IDA for approval, neither villagers nor regional livestock
staff seemed interested, and regional authorities were using subjective
criteria to identify potential project villages. There were already
doubts whether, in the absence of understanding of the basic principles
of milk production under sound management and the lack of essential
inputs and the funds to buy such inputs, the villages were capable of
handling investments under the Project. The mission therefore suggested
that alternative forms of village dairy development should also be
explored.
3.07     Progress on the dairy processing component in Dar es Salaam was
also slow: the local contractor had difficulty obtaining cement, the t-wo
milk trucks which had been ordered had not yet arrived, and the Dar plant
continued to rely on skim milk powder and butter oil purchased from WFP
and EEC funds. The planned TRDB positions had been only partially filled
and the employment of another livestock specialist was recommended as
TRDB's livestock unit was understaffed. The veterinary investigation
component had not begun, though there were plans to contact Reading
University. A proposal for the heifer breeding unit was rejected as
financially unviable. Additional problems concerned the supply of
inputs. The national shortage of cement was holding up civil works on
the farms, and suitable cattle were found to be in short supply. Some
farm machinery had been procured, though clearing, assembly and transport
to remote farms were causing delays. The mission was unhappy with
DAFCO's accounting system for its farms, but DAFCO insisted that anything
more sophisticated was beyond the capacity of local bookkeeping. It was
suggested that to improve farm management, the herd size should be broken
down into units of 100-125 cows with managers responsible for day-to-day
operations of milking, ploughing, cropping, grazing, calf rearing, etc.
These units would, in turn, be supported by a group 'service unit-
handling technical problems such as artificial insemination (AI), water
supply, major repairs, marketing and finance.
3.08     By the time of of the July-August 1977 supervision mission, a
number of problems pertaining to the role of parastatals were becoming
increasingly apparent. These included coordination among parastatals,



-8-
large overhead and administrative costs, and poor relations between DAFCO
and individual dairy farm managers. TRDB had stopped disbursing to the
parastatal farms because occupancy/title rights had not been obtained for
seven out of the 10 areas, involving 12 out of 17 planned farms. TRDB's
unwillingness to bend its rules on this matter soured its relations with
DAFCO. Delays in payments due to DAFCO by the National Cold Chain
Operation (NCCO) also reduced DAFCO's working capital and raised doubts
about the marketing prospects at Mbeya, where NCCO had a factory and was
the main purchaser of milk. Finally, some parastatal farms were having
difficulty in obtaining a regular supply of feed concentrates from the
National Milling Corporation (NMC), which was adversely affecting milk
production. Though alternative supplements were available in Tanzania,
the farm managers did not have an adequate knowledge of the nutrient
value of available concentrates and received no assistance in this matter
from DAFCO.
3.09     Progress in development of farms was still in line with
expectations, but their operating procedures and costs were showing up as
problems. The average deficit per farm was TSh 252,000 compared with a
surplus of TSh 17,000 per farm expected at appraisal. While the general
level of farm managers was satisfactory, there was little on-farm
planning and costing of different activities. The mission recommended
much more emphasis on training and fewer transfers of staff: in the
previous 18 months, only two of the nine farms had the same management
they started with. On the ujamaa component, TRDB had circulated
guidelines to all its officers and other interested parties at the
regional levels. It required that basic infrastructure (i.e dip,
handling facilities and fences) should first be supplied by the village
and then reimbursed by TRDB. However, the basic commitment to do this
was lacking; almost all villages nominated by regional officials were not
enthusiastic.
3.10     By March 1978, the ujamaa component had had its first
beneficiary, though prospects were still considered poor and TRDB was
investigating alternative ways of assisting smallholders. The Mara
region had formed a regional and district task force in March 1977, with
six ujamaa villages being planned and in their early implementation
stage. However, other regional authorities were still inactive.
Thirteen of the planned 17 parastatal farms had been started and the
dairy development program was more or less on track. Production
coefficients continued to improve with fewer mortalities, higher milk
production per cow, but low calving figures. DAFCO's overhead costs of
TSh 300,000 per farm were, however, imposing an undue burden on farm
finances. Lack of occupancy rights and a shortage of working capital had
been resolved for DAFCO farms, although some prs.blems still existed for
other beneficiaries. TRDB had begun disbursing against the security of
DAFCO promissory notes. However, KUC and NAFCO had still not signed
promissory notes and TRDB responded by halting disbursements to NAFCO's
farm at Bagamoyo and refusing to disburse loans to the KUC farm.
3.11     The March 1978 supervision mission noted two main problems:
(a) a shortage of suitable cattle which was adversely affecting
production, and (b) a lack of adequate milk pasturizing facilities at
Mbeya to handle the excess of production over local demand. Though



-9 -
cattle were expected from New Zealand, they could only be used at a
higher altitude. Five hundred additional cattle were therefore still
needed for the Coast. Procurement of cattle from Kenya posed a problem
because of the border closure. The issue arising from Mbeya's surplus
production was to decide that if the pasturizing facilities were
expanded, who would finance it and who would carry the financial losses
as the costs of production (i.e. purchase, pasturizing and transport to
Dar es Salaam) were expected to be higher than the fixed wholesale price
of milk in Dar. Otherwise, the milk processing and disease control
components were progressing satisfactorily, though both had started
somewhat behind schedule. Three Tanzanian veterinarians had started
training at the University of Reading, while a number of technical
positions were being funded by bilaterals. GOT had increased producer
prices: the new farmgate prices ranged from TSh 1.50-1.80/liter (versus
TSh 1.25 used by the appraisal mission). In fact, although the farmgate
price had nominally increased by about 32Z on average, it had actually
declined in real terms.
3.12     By the end of 1978, there had been a marked deterioration in
Project implementation, with some major problems, including poor
financial performance and prospects, inadequate farm management, and a
shortage of suitable dairy cows which restricted development on eight of
the 15 units. The performance of the only one ujamaa village involved
(Isana) was disappointing: cattle purchased were not pregnant and milk
production was consequently delayed; also, for want of transport, milk
was either being consumed locally or spoiled. The alternative of lending
to other smallholders was not being seriously pursued. GOT also appeared
to be procrastinating on the contract for disease control. The Dar es
Salaam milk collection and processing component was completed somewhat
behind schedule. Finnish aid had been arranged for a pasturizing unit at
the TDL's Mbeya plant.
3.13     Financial projections indicated that only four of the proposed
17 parastatal farms would have a positive cash flow, while the other 13
were expected to have large sustained negative cash flows. Record
keeping was poor, problems were not being followed up, farm managers were
generally apathetic and lacking a sense of direction, and two of the
General Farm Managers' positions were vacant. Understanding of all
aspects of farm management, including grazing management, animal
husbandry and production economics, was poor. LIDA's on-farm supervision
was inadequate and the overuse of project vehicles by LIDA administration
was at the expense of the Project. Total milk sales revenue was expected
to be 27% higher than appraisal estimates, but this was more than offset
by 91% escalation in total farm costs (mainly overheads, salaries,
pasture and crop input costs). Despite higher inputs into pasture crops
and concentrates and higher numbers of cows (4,490 vs. 4,272) than
estimated at appraisal, the yield per cow milked was lower (8.6 vs 10.1
liters/day) and the total yield per lactation had been reduced from 3,032
liters to 2,487 liters. LIDA recommended a series of remedies including
an increase in the price of milk and a provision for Government
subsidies. The supervision mission however argued for a much more
concerted effort to reduce the operating costs of the farms and bring
them closer to cost levels of similar operations in Kenya. It also felt
that the rate of development (i.e. building, fencing and water supply)



- 10 -
should be scaled down to enable the herd size to build up rather than
purchasing more cattle.
3.14     The May 1979 supervision missiun came close to suggesting that
the Project be abandoned. The financial prospects for large-scale
parastatals looked bleak: in 1978, DAFCO and its eight farms had
accumulated a total deficit of TSh 3.3 million. GOT's decision to turn
the Kitulo plateau into a major milk producing center under a new
parastatal threatened to take away DAFCO's two most profitable units,
thereby ensuring its bankruptcy. TSA and KUC also faced serious
liquidity problems. Both technical parameters and financial status had
further deteriorated on the large-scale farms, with low production, high
costs and subsequent financial difficulties. The mission observed
declining milk yields, despite high concentrate feeding and genetically
improved cattle, unacceptably high average mortalities, poor grazing
management, and a high percentage of cows which were not in calf. It was
estimated that 300 females had -died' in 1978 inspite of available
full-time veterinarians. The possibility that mismanagement and
unauthorized diversion of resources (such as theft of feed and milk) were
at least as widespread as poor farm management made the mission somewhat
hostile to the Project Coordination Committee's suggestion of solving the
problem by increasing the milk price, injecting Government equity, and
restructuring the parastatal farm loans. While not opposed to an overall
increase in milk prices, it felt that the priority should be to correct
gross production inefficiencies: lowering on-farm operating costs and
tightening up on farm management and controls. There was evidence of
substantial overstaffing, over-use of concentrates on some farms, and
lack of controls over vehicle use and farm office overheads. The mission
recommended cancelling the uncommitted funds if GOT insisted on creating
another parastatal. The Isana ujamaa was experiencing operating
difficulties: 7 of the 25 cattle had died, milk yields were low, cattle
prematurely dry, transporting milk to sell in Mbeya was difficult, most
milk was consumed without charge in the village, and overstocking was
becoming a problem. The mission approved a TRDB plan for individual
smallholder loans. The agreement with Reading University to conduct the
veterinary disease control investigation was finally signed and work was
expected to begin in July 1979.
3.15     The December 1979 supervision mission felt that, while financial
prospects for the parastatal farms remained poor, there was an improving
trend due to stricter budget cost controls. There was some improvement
in the physical parameters and production costs per liter of milk.
However, there were still 10 fewer cows, a 20X lower conception rate,
and a 67% shorter lactation period than had been expected earlier. The
mission pointed out that if the same number of cows had achieved a 77%
calving rate (instead of 61%), a 300 day lactation period (instead of 283
days) and a daily milk yield per cow of 8.7 liters (instead of 7.3
liters), total production would have been 8 million liters worth TSh 16
million; the extra TSh 3 million would have solved the farms' liquidity
problems. There was thus no technical, genetic or environmental reason
why the appraisal estimates could not be achieved with good management.
The mission also recommended that more attention be paid to pasture
control and fodder conservation, and that bulls be used as a backup to
Al. GOT planned to review the milk price situation and was seeking ways



- 11 -
to provide adequate working capital through equity financing and the
restructuring of loans, so as to get around the vicious circle of
diminishing production and income ensuing from a lack of funds for
essentials such as fertiliser and feedstuffs. The mission recommended a
capital grant to each farm to lower its debt burden and noted that,
adjusted for inflation since appraisal, the farmgate price of milk should
"ave been TSh 2.10/liter (instead of TSh 1.80). GOT also requested a
reduction in ujamaa village lending and an increase in lending for
smallholder dairying. At this stage, TRDB had approved six loans to
ujamaa villages but disbursed to only two of them, as there was a
constraint on the availability of heifers. It had already approved loans
to four smallholders and another eight were under study.
3.16     The May 1980 supervision mission reported a persistence of most
of the above-noted problems. Contrary to Section 4.02 of the Project
Agreement, no acceptable audited accounts had been received from DAFCO or
any other project beneficiary. Because of structural changes in the
Ministry of Agriculture, the responsibility for the Project had been
changed to the Ministry of Livestock and Natural Resources; this had
delayed consideration of issues in farm management and milk pricing. A
milk price review was long overdue. With the milk price stagnant at TSh
1.80 per liter since 1976, all farms were running at a deficit,
notwithstanding decreases in production costs per liter from TSh 3.88 in
1978 to TSh 2.43. Although the overall volume of milk production had
increased, a large proportion was fed to calves rather than sold. Milk
production reported on all parastatal farms had increased from 3.0
million liters in 1976 to 6.4 million liters in 1980. The mission felt
that, notwithstanding the managerial, technical and financial
inefficiencies of the parastatals, milk production could further increase
if the farms were fully stocked and substituted high yielding cows for
lower yielders.
3.17     There were still only six villages under the ujamaa component
Isana, and five in Mara district - with 65X of disbursements completed.
In addition to the loans, all villages had received grants of TSh 50,000
each to help initiate work and boost their equity in the dairy
enterprise. The Mara villages did not seem overly keen, since most owned
cattle on an individual basis, extracted only a liter a day from selected
cows, and did not wish to lose ownership or incur debts to embark on
cooperative ventures. Isana was the only -truly ujamaa operation".
However, while village cows produced only three liters a day, individual
cattle produced up to 12 liters. Poor water development, weak veterinary
and feed supply services, shortage of qualified dairy workers and of
suitable cattle, and lack of transport for Ministry technicians were
additional constraints.
3.18     At this stage, it was realized that no spectacular increases in
commercial milk production could be expected from either the parastatal
sector or the ujamaas, and the mission argued for a long-term strategy to
support the smallholder sector. TRDB had so far approved 55 smallholder
loans in the Arusha/Kilimanjaro area. However, only 28 out of 70 cows
had been procured and TRDB felt that the Project had reached its limit in
the area. Shortages of suitable cows, poor communication and lack of
support services such as extension, AI and veterinary assistance were



- 12 -
uajor constraints holding up development of the smallholder dairy
sector. The milk collection component at the Dar es Salaam and Arusha
plants had been dropped and funds were reallocated to install an
additional yoghurt making unit and to order equipment, two trucks and 400
additional milk cans. A GOT request to reallocate some of the Credit for
the relocated Hbeya milk plant was held up, pending a feasibility study.
An interim report on the animal health study had been received and
recommended against establishing a disease-free zone.
3.19     The November 1980 supervision mission supported GOT's request to
extend the Credit Closing Date by two years to March 31, 1983. TRDB
interest arrears had improved to TSh 940,000 from TSh 1.6 million at the
end of 1979. The July 1980 increase in farmgate milk prices from
TSh 1.80 to TSh 2.70 per liter was estimated to boost farm incomes by
67Z, though operating costs were also soaring. During 1980, GOT had also
injected TSh 12.8 million of WFP funds into parastatal farms. Apart from
Ngerengere, the DAFCO farms showed prospects of breaking even in 1981 and
could have done even better with additional cow and heifer purchases.
However, although three problem farms among the parastatals had been
identified, nothing had been done to remedy the adverse financial and
technical situation on these farms. The mission advised strict controls
over farm labor and vehicle operational and maintenance expenses,
elimination of low-yielding cows and breeders, disposal of most bull
calves, and adequate budgetary provision for fertiliser for pasture and
bought feeds for high yielding cows.
3.20     NARCO had objected to the last three supervision missions'
suggestion that its ranches be used for the production of heifers for
Project farms, on the ground that its own ranches were still
understocked. However, three heifer breeding units had been established
with bilateral funding capable of producing 2,000 heifers a year at full
development. All items for the new TDL operations at Arusha and Dar es
Salaam had been purchased and installed. The proposal to establish a new
milk plant at Mbeya was still under consideration but GOT was now seeking
bilateral financing for this and requested use of Project funds for the
replacement and renovation of worn-out plant and equipment at the Arusha
milk plant. A further Government reshuffle removing the Project from the
Ministry of Livestock and Natural Resources and placing it with the
Ministry of Animal Husbandry had resulted in many critical delays in the
endorsement of the reallocation of Credit proceeds, increased GOT equity
financing, higher milk prices, and a host of other decisions. The
consequently weak and delayed decision making was manifested in the slow
rate of disbursements: as of October 31, 1980, only US$ 4.2 million of
the Credit had been disbursed.
3.21     The July 1981 supervision mission had more cause for optimism
about the status of the Project as farmgate milk prices had just been
raised to TSh 3.70/liter thus improving the parastatals' cash flow
position. WFP had provided further equity financing, the problem farms
identified earlier had been eliminated from the Project, and there had
been some improvement in parastatal farm management. However, DAFCO and
TDL audited accounts had still not been received and the audited accounts
of other beneficiaries (KUC, TSA, NAFCO) were virtually useless as their
dairy activities were lost in their overall budgets. Moreover, since the



- 13 -
real producer price of milk had actually decreased since appraisal and
was 2-3 times lower than the price in the parallel market, the most
recent price increase was unlikely to provide much of an incentive for
marketing through the formal system of TDL. Thus, there remained a
question as to how much the Project had really improved since its worst
low of 1978 and how sustainable were the improvements given the utterly
dire state of the Tanzanian economy.
3.22     TRDB had so far approved 40 loans to smallholders for 60 cows
and disbursed TSh 179,000 (out of TSh 366,000) for 34 cows. It was
finding the exercise costly. There was no assistance from the local
extension staff. AI and veterinary services were also scarce as were
reliable sources of supplementary feedstuffs. TRDB had already d[sburSed
TSh 4.5 million for the Dar es Salaam milk plant and the balance of rSR 5-
million was being used for the installation of recently arrived
equipment. The shortage of tetrapak material was limiting the plant's
utilization to only 50% of its full capacity of 90,000 liters/day. GOT's
proposal to renovate the Arusha milk plant was judged to be feasible. A
report was received on the animal health study and it was agreed to
further extend Reading University's contract by one year.
3.23     The January 1982 supervision mission noted that average milk per
cow had fallen from 7.8 liters to 6.9 liters/day. The new farm managers
appointed in 1981 had made some improvements but were still not using
their records for decision making. Unfortunately, even when farm and
project accounts were well kept, there was no standardized format and
hence the results were not comparable - furthermore, the Tanzanian Audit
Corporation continued not to produce timely audits of project accounts as
it was required to do. Improvements could have also be made in the
technical aspects of pasture improvement, maintenance and dry season
fodder conservation. Slow procurement and a centralization of decision
making in LIDA, DAFCO and other parastatals were continuing to hinder
day-to-day management and long range planning by farm managers.
Government policy on milk marketing and its insistence on retaining male
calves, overstaffing and limited powers to hire and fire, and lack of
incentives for better productive performance also reduced the efficiency
of the parastatal farms. Farm managers complained of being forced to
attend political rallies and much time was taken up in court over staff
litigation. The employment of new group farm and farm managers had led to
suppression of certain abuses and significant rises in milk yields on some
farms. However, some farm managers were still selling milk on the
open/parallel market and generally attempting to improve their cash flow
by not conforming to GOT policy that all milk be sold to TDL at the
official price. This tendency was also encouraged by TDL's reluctance
and/or inability at times to collect milk. DAFCO farms as a group still
generated a surplus of only TSh 604,000 excluding debt service, even
though the increased milk price had been expected to increase revenues by
about TSh 2.6 million. TRDB was advised by the mission to conduct more
frequent field supervision of borrowers, especially those in arrears.
However, it had not yet hired adequate technical staff to do this
effectively or to pursue the development of smallholder dairying. The
Coordination Committee still met infrequently and the overall leadership
of LIDA and TRDB left a great deal to be desired. There had been a
general reluctance to use Credit funds for technical assistance, relyirg
instead on FAO or bilaterally financed staff who had the drawback of rapid
turnover.



- 14 -
3.24     The July/August 1982 supervision mission did not give a
particularly promising view of the Project. Milk output in 1982 was
likely to be even lower than the 1981 production of 5.8 million liters
due to continuing management and technical problems. These included
fewer cows in milk, extremely high apparent calf mortality, and lack of
fuel and spare parts to operate machinery for fodder conservation, which
had held down the stocking rate to 60X of the appraisal expectation.
Farms were ill-prepared for the forthcoming dry season as they were
overstocked relative to feed/fodder supplies. Reduced stocking through
heavy culling of unproductive animals was therefore necessary, especially
given the unreliable supply of concentrates which otherwise could have
been used to sustain milk prod-ction during emergencies. Poor herd
management on farms was manifested in slow breeding, high death rates,
theft and other diversions of resources. The increase of the official
price of milk to TSh 6.20/liter in July 1982 (the first increase which
put the real price back at the 1975 level) could have offset financial
losses only if costs had been held down and tight financial controls
imposed. Procurement of cattle, fuel and spare parts was falling further
behind, due in part to the general suspension of IDA disbursements to
Tanzania in June 1982 and also to TRDB's reluctance to finance investments
on farms with debt servicing problems. The mission suggested giving
incentives to managers under DAFCO and LIDA, authority to match their
responsibilities, and required adherence to internal controls and
reporting procedures. Only one ujamaa farm out of six was doing well,
while smallholder development was being held back by a shortage of dairy
animals.
3.25     The parastatal farms' financial records were so poor and
questionable that an independent financial analyst had earlier (March
1982) been hired at IDA's insistence to report on the situation and
conduct a 'performance' audit of the farms' operations.   His report,
which was received at RMEA in September 1982, concluded that
mismanagement, poor farm management and low milk prices had all
contributed to high farm losses and relatively small overall increases in
milk production and sales. The financial analyst's recommendations
covered budgetary and cost controls, deterrents against various forms of
fraud and unauthorized sales of animals and milk, inventory controls,
disposal of unproductive animals, excessive labor costs, overheads,
regular and uniform financial reporting including timely preparation of
accurate farm income and expense statements, timely payment for milk by
TDL, improved debt servicing plans for the future, and less reliance on
expatriate farm managers. These recommendations were fully supported by
IDA. The financial analyst was subsequently retained for several mcnths
to implement his recommendations and to train farm accountants and
DAFCO's principal accountant (also see paras. 5.02 - 5.05 'later).
3.26     The final supervision mission, in January 1983, still classified
the Project as having major problems, though with an improving trend. A
further extension of the Credit Closing Date was not -ecommended and the
mission actively discouraged proposals to prepare a second phase of the
Project. Audits had not been brought up to date, and 1981 and 1982
accounts of the dairy parastatals still needed to be sent to IDA.
Continuing technical problems included an inadequate number of breeding
animals available to the Project for herd expansion, lack of pasture
improvement, and mediocre husbandry practices.   The estimated total milk



- 15 -
production for 1982 was 6.139 million litres, 5% higher than earlier
forecast and up from 5.8 million liters in 1981, as shortages in fuel hind
spare parts for fodder conservation were temporarily overcome.
Production was also boosted by the importation of 250 in-calf heifers
from Zimbabwe. The number of cows in milk increased. Reported daily
milk yields/cow on six of the 11 parastatal farms also went up, due to
better controls and/or better reporting. The results of the 1980 audit
and the financial analyst's report (see above) had apparently raised the
awareness of DAFCO, TSA and KUC management of the need to hold down costs
and impose stricter financial controls at the farm level. However, in
spite of the greater volume of milk output, an increase in the milk price
and sale of excess cattle, debt servicing to TRDB was still in arrears
for six out of 11 farms. TRDB performance of debt management was quite
inadequate, it had no data on the aging of debts in arrears, and its
accounts on debt servicing still required reconciliation with those of
the parastatals.
3.27     The 11 parastatal farms as a group expected to earn a small
profit of TSh 500,000-800,000 in 1982 1/, after consecutive losses in all
previous years, including a loss of TSh 8.8 million in 1981.  Sales of
cattle were estimated to have increased from TSh 804,000 to TSh 4.2
million. Operating costs were about TSh 25 million, or about TSh 1
million less than in 1981. However, even with the forthcoming
acquisition of 1,000 heifers, the mission felt that neither the stocking
rate nor milk production would reach appraisal targets. Consequently,
project benefits would be reduced and the rate of return was expected to
be lower than estimates or even negative. The mission estimated that if
the parastatals had been fully stocked under the actual (versus the
appraisal) parameters, milk production in 1982 could have been 9.7
million liters instead of 6.1 million liters. However, though the
technical qualifications of farm managers were uniformly high, their
technical performances were highly variable. A particular concern was the
high percentage of dry or non-productive cows to those in milk. Owing to
understocking and low toLal milk production, farms tried to maintain
maximum milk output by retaining low yielding cows. Ideally, the
milking/dry cow ratio, based on a 300 day lactation and 100% calving rate,
is 82.2%. In both 1981 and 1982 the average for all parastatal farms was
50.4Z (with a range of 39Z-71Z). The mission felt that with a better use
of records and culling of slow breeders, a rate of 66% could be attained
(with 80% calving).
Issues in Implementation
3.28     The following were the main issues which arose in the
implementation process;
(a)      Milk Prices and Marketing.   A critical assumption underlying
the Project was that the price of milk would be raised sufficiently to
stimulate greater commercial production of milk, thereby also justifying
1/   Profit and loss statements for parastatal dairy farms for 1982 and
1983 are still not available. Hence, these figures are only
estimates.



- 16 -
the use of project funds for improving the collection and distribution
facilities in Dar es salaam and Arusha. In fact, as shown in Table 7,
official increases in milk prices until 1982 were always too little and
too late to maintain the price in real terms even at t.'e 1975 level; the
average decline in milk prices in real terms during 1975-82 was 21%. This
adversely affected the profitability and cash flow situation of the
parastatals: some half of the shortfall in revenue in 1981 as compared
with appraisal estimates was due to this factor (the remainder being due
to lower production levels and higher operational costs). Had the milk
price been adjusted in real terms, DAFCO would have earned an additional
TSh 13.6 million in 1976-81, which would have partially offset its losses
totalling TSh 25.1 million over the same period. Low milk prices also
reduced the incentive for both parastatal and other producers to sell
milk legally, particularly in the generally deteriorating economic
environment in Tanzania with growing shortages and emergence of a large
parallel market for food items such as milk (with 2-3 times higher
prices). Moreover, TDL was not always a reliable buyer or a timely
payer, further decreasing the incentive to sell legally. Throughout
implementation, supervision missions thus found themselves having to
address the problem of illegal milk sales. In fact, the only parastatal
farm to make a profit in 1981 sold part of its output on the parallel
market. Profitability could apparently be best achieved only at the
expense of the Project's objectives of import substitution and increased
milk supply to urban areas. Since the formal market sector was unable to
attract major portions of the milk produced, improvements under the
Project's milk collection and processing component also became somewhat
less significant.
(b)      Role of Parastatals.  The number of parastatal institutions
involved in the Project generated severe problems of coordination, which
were accentuated by the widely dispersed location of many parastatal
farms far from good roads and supporting services. The idea that
parastatals might actually impede good farm management and unnecessarily
add to overhead costs (as with other crop-buying parastatals in Tanzania
operating at a loss) was apparently not fully appreciated at appraisal.
In the event, decision making by Project parastatals was unusually
cumbersome, thus slowing down all levels of implementation and reducing
the initiative of individual farm managers. Spare parts could not be
obtained without going through LIDA, and regularizing the supply of
concentrates depended on NMC. The conflict between IfDA as the Project's
technical arm and TRDB as its financial (and somewkat restrictive) arm
continued to hinder achievement of the Project's aims throughout the
implementation period. No project management unit was set up as
originally envisaged. This left the work of running the Project with
LIDA's overtaxed Director and the Coordination Committee, which did not
meet regularly or take the initiative expected of it. Implementation was
also affected by the lack of continuity in Group Farm Managers, in part
the result of two-year contracts under bilateral aid. GOT's decision to
transfer the Project midstream to another Ministry also decreased the
momentum of implementation. There was, in addition, an unsuccessful
attempt to create a new parastatal for another GOT project on the Kitulo
plateau. This tendency to -solve' problems by rearranging the
administration or creating new organizations only resulted in multiplying



- 17 -
existing problems, generating new ones, and adding to overhead costs of
operation.
(c)      Farm Management Performance.  The appraisal mission had
correctly stressed the highly technical and managerially demanding
features of dairy development: this was the reason GOT's original project
proposal was substantially scaled down. It was probably still
optimistic, however, to assume that the gap in critical management skills
could be filled easily and quickly enough during the course of Project
implementation to ensure well run and economically viable dairy farms.
By 1981-82, there were apparently sufficient numbers of technically
well-trained (though inexperienced) farm managers, but supervision
missions continued to report a lack of attention to detail and a lack of
motivation to improve operating performance.   Farm records were poorly
kept and not used to diagnose problems, cows were not always properly fed
or monitored, lax controls created opportunities for theft and waste,
machinery was allowed to run down, and so on.   Since farm plans had to
be prepared and approved before ordering machinery, there was a 9-12
month delay in farm development (in addition to 6-9 months needed for
tendering, ordering and delivery): these delays were not anticipated in
the original Credit disbursement schedule.   The effective annual calving
rate during the Project was also well below expected levels. In 1981,
only 63% of mature cows were milking. This low performance (which
stemmed from low submission rates of cows to mating) slowed herd
build-up, the number of lactations and total milk production.
Supervision missions constantly advised that bulls be used as a back-up
to the AI service to improve calving; however, this appears not to have
been done systematically. The extremely high apparent death rates of
young stock and adults (22Z and 9.5% respectively in 1981) also
contributed to a slow build-up of herd numbers. Poor calf rearing
management (exarcerbated by the GOT requirement that all bull calves
should be reared for eventual sales to smallholders and ujamaas),
inadequate pasture grazing, too few veterinary diagnosis facilities, and
shortages of health supplies were among the factors cited as causing this
problem.   Finally, staff/cow ratios on farms were some three times
appraisal estimates.   Due to poor motivation, inadequate supervision and
an inability to fire workers, labor productivity was particularly low
among semi-skilled workers. In addition, outside pressures forced farm
managers to be away from their farms much of the time. As DAFCO's head
office expenses were levied against individual farms, this also hindered
the parastatal dairy farms from operating as independent profit units as
anticipated at appraisal.
(d)      Availability of Cattle.   The appraisal mission had assumed,
incorrectly as it turned out, that sufficient cattle would be available
within Tanzania to stock the parastatal dairy farms, and also did not
make any provision for pasture development on these farms. It was
assumed that the West Lake heifer breeding unit would produce about 1,800
upgraded heifers a year. However, there was in fact insufficient lead
time for this unit to contribute significantly to the stocking of Project
farms. Soon after Project start-up, the unit was abandoned as
financially unviable; as it was located far from most of the parastatal
dairy farms and ill served by transport, it was in any case not sited
optimally from the Project's point of view. Bilateral aid financed three



- 18 -
heifer breeding units in the late 1970s, but heifers from these units did
not become available until 1981. As of 1977-78, the large-scale dairy
farms were short of approximately 2,000 cows. Some cows from the U.S.A.
were provided for Kitulo in 1977, and 2,517 additional cattle were
imported under the Credit from New Zealand, Kenya and Zimbabwe during
1977-83. In addition to the inadequate availability of cattle, the lack
of initial attention to pasture development left the Project
unnecessarily vulnerable to the supply of feed concentrates. This again
contributed to the slow herd build-up and poor operating performance of
the parastatal farms.
(e)      Role of Ujamaas.  The ujamaa component never really took off
during the Project because it was unviable from its inception. At the
time of appraisal, there were no real 'ujamaaC villages. Communal
production had never been a common feature of village life in Tanzania.
Instead, the population was being relocated by the Government into
"development" villages, thereby causing a major disruption of the
agricultural sector. Peasants for the most part were tired of official
intrusions, which brought low prices, poor marketing, and debts. Also,
few villages could meet both the loan and other criteria for dairy
projects, such as previous experience with livestock, suitability of
location for dairying, capacity of regional livestock officials to provide
extension and veterinary services, and alternative sources of cash income
to pay TRDB charges. The few villages which did meet these criteria did
not perform very well due to lack of genuine commitment by villagers and
extension staff, shortage of qualified manpower and training facilities,
difficulties in obtaining and transporting cattle, and unavailable or
declining infrastructure such as water supply. In fact, it is
questionable whether TRDB would have considered the funding of village
dairies as viable if WFP had not given a grant to finance half of the
investment cost. While the appraisal mission had not fully appreciated
the impact of villagization on the proposed development of dairy
production, the early supervision missions also continued to believe for
too long that this component could be successfully implemented. When
ujamaa were finally given up as a lost cause, the emphasis was switched to
smallholder lending.
(f)      Smallholder Dairy Schemes.  By the end of 1983, 100Z of
projected loans to smallholders had been approved and close to 100%
disbursed, with most recipients concentrated in the Arusha/Kilimanjaro
area. However, their operating performance and impact have so far been
limited by the general economic constraints and the non-availability of
inputs and technical advice. Traditional husbandry practices are
inadequate to keep highbred dairy and there have been no means of
providing training for prospective borrowers. TRDB was also unable to
collect any technical or financial records from smallholders, and did not
hire adequate technical staff to appraise or supervise loans to
smallholders. Livestock extension staff lacked transport and other
services necessary to support the individual dairy farmer. Concentrates,
medicines, inputs and breeding bulls have been in short supply, leading to
prolonged calving intervals and dry non-pregnant cows. While smallholder
dairying may ultimately offer a more cost-effective means of increasing
the domestic supply of milk than parastatals, it can only succeed if
sufficient pasture, clean water, dipping facilities, good roads and
transport to supply feeds and other :nputs, nearby veterinary services and



- 19 -
good marketing facilities are available. These conditions are closely
linked to the general state of the Tanzanian economy.
(g)      General Economic Environment.  The appraisal mission had
identified a number of constraints which if improved or minimized would
allow Tanzania to develop an indigenous dairy industry to meet its milk
requirements. These included tae location of some high potential areas
far from major markets, low milk price levels, limited milk collection
services, low milk yields of traditional cattle, shortage of feed during
the dry season, weak dairy extension services, shortage of inputs, lack
of trained dairy managers, etc. In practice, however, the impact of
additional funds, improved cattle, inteinationally-recruited manpower and
machinery on the dairy system was severely limited by the general
deterioration of all services and sectors in Tanzania over the Project
implementation period, the full extent of which could not have been
reasonably anticipated in 1974. Some of the major constraints on dairy
production (such as availability of inputs and transport facilities) were
really features of the wider environment and as the economic crisis
worsened so did these constraints: it was impossible ;or dairy farm
performance to improve in isolation when everything on which it depended
was deteriorating. Moreover, the IDA Credit was supposed to primarily
finance investments, with GOT paying for most recurrent expenses and
capital replacement. The growing general scarcity of foreign exchange
caused a continuous shortage of veterinary medicines and spare parts for
farm machinery, with consequent delays in farm development work and high
rate of animal deaths. Thus, the many shortfalls between appraisal
estimates and actual results can be explained partly by severe shortage
of foreign exchange available to GOT for the purchase of recurrent inputs
and spare parts and, in a larger perspective, the rapid decline of the
general economy over the Project implementation period.
(h)      Financial Controls.  There are many indications that loose
financial controls and unauthorized diversion of resources substantially
affected the profit and loss situation on the parastatal farms and hence
delayed or impeded Project implementation. The supervision missions
regularly pointed to missing milk, missing feed, misuse of vehicles,
nepotism, and poor or doctored accounts. It appears that the more the
larger economy deteriorated, the more such malpractices became a feature
of the landscape. The question naturally arose as to whether
implementation was proceeding better than appeared to be the case, if one
could factor oit unofficial diversions of resources. In short, was the
problem of the Project technically poor farm management or mismanagement
(and manipulation of data)? This question was important in assessing
whether or not it was at all possible to implement the Project
successfully and profitably. Unfortunately, there is no easy answer to
this question, and the effect of these elements on the Project as a whole
must remain a conjectural point.
IV. Project Impact
4.01     The main quantifiable impact of the Project has been the
increased domestic commercial supply of fresh milk from the dairy
parastatals. By 1982, commercial milk production on the parastatal farms



- 20 -
had risen to around 6 million liters/year; additional quantities being
sold illegally on the parallel market are impossible to estimate. The
Project was undoubtedly instrumental in turning a number of run-down
dairy farms into functioning entities. Nevertheless, the incremental
production figures were still less than a third of appraisal targets.
Moreover, TDL's reliance on imported milk products actually increased over
the Project implementation period, while its intake of fresh milk
decreased by 20% (see Table 8). During the same period, imports of milk
products rose 53% and of butter oil by 71% (Table 9). The impact of the
ujamaa and smallholder components on milk production was also
negligible. Overall project impact on import substitution was therefore
not nearly as significant as anticipated, and the impact on nutritional
levels of the population was limited at best.
4.02     There also remain serious questions about the long-term
sustainability of the milk production levels already achieved. Milk
output and the ratio of milking cows on DAFCO farms actually dropped in
1983. Much of the equipment is now run down and in need of replacement,
for which there is no foreign exchange. Without replacement of this
machinery on a regular basis and its maintenance in good working order,
the farms will deteriorate and production will fall. It has been
estimated that the foreign exchange equivalent of some TSh 5.3 million
(in 1982 prices) is needed annually to replace machinery and farm
vehicles, maintain the supply of spare parts, import seed for pasture
development, and continue sending farm managers on training courses. At
present, much of this assistance is being provided by the Netherlands,
but there is no assurance of its continuation over the long term.
4.03     An important non-quantifiable benefit of the Project expected at
appraisal was the development and demonstration of dairy farm techniques,
which were to lay the basis for future dairy development in Tanzania. In
fact, farm management left a lot to be desired throughout the Project
implementation period. It is therefore difficult to say how much, if
any, spillover effect will come from dairy farming techniques that are
Project-related. The upgrading of the domestic stock through importation
of cattle could well improve deirying over the long run. Perhaps the
most important positive impact from the point of view of benefits to
individual producers has been the unintended spillover of some upgraded
dairy cattle from the parastatal farms to the smallholder sector. When
cattle disappeared from the farms, some were slaughtered while others
were thought to have gone to interested smallholders. Nevertheless,
while the Project as a whole had been expected to produce 2,850 dairy
heifers, the need to procure cattle from abroad after the heifer breeding
unit was dropped actually resulted in unanticipated costs rather an
increased output of local cows.
4.04     One clear positive impact of the Project was to initiate an
annual Government review of the milk price. Indirectly, this encouraged
systematic analysis and announcement of regular producer price
increases. These increases in turn have demonstrated that the demand
existed to sustaia higher prices for both the producer and the consumer.
It is possible that this could persuade the Government to decontrol milk
prices in the future.



- 21 -
V. Financial Performance
5.01     The appraisal report had estimated financial rates of return
(FRRs) on incremental investments at 18Z for dairy farms, 28Z for the
ujamaa dairy units and 33% for the heifer breeding unit. The Project was
expected to result in a net cumulative surplus of TSh 13.6 million by
year 5 and TSh 123.7 million by year 15, thus adding to the Government's
revenues. However, for all the reasons mentioned in earlier paragraphs
it is clear that the financial targets and projections made at appraisal
will not be achieved. Improvement of processing facilities at Dar es
Salaam and Arusha assisted in raising TDL's net profits from TSh 8.9
million in 1977 to TSh 28.5 million in 1982. But this performance was an
exception. Calculations by LIDA's Dairy Advisor in 1982 indicated FRRs
for the parastatal farms ranging from 2% to 9Z, while its consultant
financial analyst estimated a negative FRR of 12% for all parastatal
farms combined in 1981. Unfortunately, poor accounts, record-keeping and
differences in accounting systems on Individual farms, parent parastatals
and other implementing agencies make it impossible to realistically
assess the financial performance and FRR on Project investments eith r by
farm or for the Project as a whole. Production data is also generally
inadequate or inconsistent, and it is not possible to make causal
linkages between Project investments and production. Tables 10 and 11
show the latest avallable status of TRDB's loan portfolio and arrears.
The last supervision mission in January 1983 recommended that a
case-by-case review of TRDB's credit accounts be carried out and a report
reconciling these with the parastatals' accounts be submitted to IDA. To
date, this report has not been received.
5.02     In 1982, a consultant financial analyst was hired by LIDA at the
Bank's request to work in Tanzania for six months, focusing on the causes
of the parastatal farms' inability to generate sufficient income to cover
costs and their growing arrears in repaying TRDB loans. He found that
most of the parastatal farms did not pcssess up-to-date accounting
records, and reported systematic and sustained losses by the farms and
all four parastatals (NAPCO, DAFCO, KUJC and TSA) since 1976. In 1981
alone, tne parastatal farms lost TSh 8.8 million, or 48% on a turnover of
TSh 18.1 million. Only four of the farms were able to service their
debts to TRDB and only two of them from internally generated income.
Cumulative losses since 1976 had eroded almost half of the farms'
investment costs; without substantial capital grants from WPP, the
situation would have been even worse. Tables 12 and 13 present an
analysis of the parastatal farms' operating costs and income during
1976-81. (As of March 1984, only two parastatal farms had no arrears on
loans from TRDE; accumulated arrears for the other farms were TSh 4.97
million. In addition, all but one ujamaa village were in arrears on
their loan repayments, and the majority of smallholders were also unable
to meet their repayment schedules).
5.03     The financial analyst identified two main reasons for the
parastatal farms' poor financial performance: inadequate income, and poor
cost performance and structure. In 1981, a decline in both milk output
and the selling price of milk in real terms had reduced farm income: milk
sales declined 8% with an lIZ drop in yields/cow, 4% reduction in number



- 22 -
of cows in milk, and maintenance of a large number (40%) of unproductive
cows. The average farmgate milk price of TSh 3.20/liter compared unfavorably
with the appraisal price assumption of TSh 5.21/liter (TSh 1.80 expressed in
1982 shillings). Including non-milk income, all farms consequently lost an
average of TSh 1.70/liter of milk production in 1981. The operating cost
structure of the farms showed a definite bias in favor of unproductive (45%)
versus directly productive (28%) expenditures. On DAFCO farms alone, head
office costs ranged from 10% to 40% of total farm income, mainly as a result
of overstaffing: as just one example, five managerial posts in DAFCO were
found to be functional duplicates of those in LIDA. Labor was the highest
single cost item, amounting to 21% of total farm operating costs and 24% of
the average milk price received (vs. 15-16% standard). Excess labor costs
were reflected in high overtime payments and the employment of a large number
of casual laborers: both excessive in relation to farm activities and
requirements. Vehicle running costs were similarly excessive. A major
conclusion of the financial analyst was that the lack of internal stock
control and budgetary monitoring were major factors in explaining both the
poor income and the high ratio of unproductive to productive costs. The lack
of accounting procedures for the issue of stocks and a failure to reconcile
inventories with stock purchase and issue had resulted in an accumulated stock
shortage for DAFCO farms of TSh 1.6 million which had never been investigated
and was finally written off in 1981.
5.04     Only three of the parastatal farms were able to produce up-to-date
and accurate accounts for 1981. Hence, income and expenditure accounts for
management decisions, particularly cost controls, were non-existent. This
made it impossible for the parent parastatals to monitor the farms' financial
performance, especially sales of animals and revenue from milk sales to
non-TDL outlets. The financial analyst estimated that at least one half of
all milk produced by the farms was not sold to TDL but to private buyers at a
free market" price higher than the official price. Since there is no data
for 1982 and 1983 comparable to that collected by the financial analyst for
1981, it is difficult to say whether the situation has substantially improved
in the last two years.
5.05     The financial analyst's recommendations included: (a) budgetary and
cost controls, with head offices requiring uniform monthly and quarterly
operating statements and setting standard cost coefficients (per animal and
per liter of milk) for monitoring performance;
(b) inventory controls; (c) a reduction of the permanent labor force;
(d) a limit on private sales of milk to 10% and a maximum quota of 100
liters/month to farm employees; (e) sale of surplus male calves and
unproductive females; and (f) assessing charges of DAFCO overhead at a flat
rate of 11% of total sales per farm. While DAFCO, LIDA, TSA and KUC all
agreed to issue written instructions to their parastatals to comply with these
recommendations, in the absence of up-to-date statements of accounts for the
last two years, it is difficult to gauge how far they have actually been
implemented or to what extent parastatal financial management has improved as
a result.



- 23 -
VI. Institutional Performance and Development
6.01     At the time of appraisal, the quality of management
(particularly on farms) was identified as the principal risk of the
Project and the pivotal factor on which the economic and financial
viability of dairy farms hinged. The Project had no institution-building
objectives per se: all the parastatal institutions involved were already
in place and the Project did not envisage setting up any new
institutional arrangements. The Project basically aimed to turn run-down
dairy farms into productive and profitable units. Adequate provision for
technical assistance (30 manyears) was made for LIDA and TRDB in the
original Project design, including internationally-recruited financial
controllers, group farm managers and a training component. In the event,
the major part of the Project's technical assistance component came from
bilateral sources and the provision for a preparation team in TRDB for
ujamaa villages never materialized. Since the technical assistance
personnel who were hired could only play an advisory role, they did not
have any operational authority and therefore remained ineffective in
practice. Three short-term courses of 3-4 months each and one long-term
course were also funded under the Project and overseas training was
provided to two veterinarians: these can be expected to yield some
benefits over the longer term.
6.02     An implicit assumption at appraisal was that the Government had
the capacity to absorb the administrative, manpower and managerial
demands of the Project, with appropriate strengthening through technical
assistance and training. However, certain features of the Project,
including the large number and remoteness of dairy farms, made Project
management more difficult. This was exacerbated by the centralization of
decision-making in the parent parastatals located in Dar es Salaam, the
lack of identification of TBDB with the Project objectives, and the
increasing difficulties caused by the general deterioration in transport
and input supply services. Although the Project had sufficient numbers
of technically trained farm managers towards the end of the implementation
period, poor farm management performance continued under these
constraints. Project management problems could not really be dealt with
outside of their wider context of the overall economy. As just two
examples of the external policy constraints, low milk prices and soaring
administrative overheads of the parent parastatals both contributed to
demoralization, poor staff motivation, mismanagement, high non-productive
operating costs and poor bookkeeping practices. The institutional impact
of the Project was thus severely limited.
6.03     GOT's response to problems in Project implementation and
suggestions made by the supervision missions war often disappointing. It
did not comply with the clauses in the Credit and Project Agreements
requiring audited accounts, did not hold regular meetings of the
Coordination Committee, did not seriously investigate charges of
mismanagement, and did not produce final 1982 Project accounts by
March 31, 1983 or final parastatal accounts by June 30, 1983, as jointly
agreed in January 1983. Supervision inputs by 2MEA often went beyond
simple advice and bordered on direct management intervention, raising
again the issue of the Project's long-term sustainability, even at the



- 24 -
managerial level. It was only at IDA's insistence that the Government
finally called in a financial analyst (see para 5.02 above) to ascertain
the financial and management status of the parastatal dairy farms. Prior
to this, the Government had persistently maintained that there were no
problems except occasional sloppy accounting procedures, which would be
rectified. When this ultimately proved not to be the case, the
Government was verbally responsive to all the financial analyst's
suggestions including the need for standardized budgetary and accounting
procedures. The financial analyst's contract was extended to enable him
to implement his recommendations and to train farm accountants. The
contract of DAFCO's Chief Accountant was also extended for the express
purpose of providing up-to-date 1982 accounts. Nevertheless, as of July
1984, the initial response had not been translated into concrete action
either on the parastatal dairy farms or at the general manager'al level:
final accounts have not yet been prepared for 1982 and 1983.
VII. Bank Performance
7.01     Although the scope of the Project was substantially cut back at
appraisal from the original proposal by GOT, in retrospect it appears
that it might have had greater chance of success if it had initially
concentrated on even fewer (and more accessible) dairy farms and/or pilot
smallholder production near urban areas, given that this was Tanzania's
first experience with large-scale dairying and trained management was not
initially available. Indeed, the major constraints in establishing
600-700 dairy cow units in developed countries with a history of
progressive dairy farming, is usually the shortage of capable farm
managers. The institutional focus on both parastatals and ujamaas was
misplaced, since the former actually impeded good farm management while
the latter were a new and untried concept that proved totally unsuitable
for dairy management in the Tanzanian context. The appraisal mission had
rightly stressed the technically demanding aspects of animal husbandry and
dairy development. However, it had apparently not sufficiently researched
the local availability of suitable cattle, focused almost exclusively on
feed concentrates at the expense of pasture development, and probably set
the Project's targets (including production coefficients) in the context
of parastatal and ujamaa management which restricted the authority of farm
managers in relation to their responsibilities.
7.02     The Project was supervised regularly from RMEA, wih a reasonable
degree of staff continuity. Supervision missions consistently identified
the technical, management and other problems impeding Project
implementation, though there were limits to what they could achieve in
the narrow Project context while the general economic environment and
infrastructure were rapidly deteriorating. In retrospect, the inclusion
of a financial analyst on some of the earlier supervision missions (one
was included, in 1980-81, on only two of the 13 supervision missions
during the seven years of Project implementation) and enforcement of the
Project's reporting requirements might have forced the issue of poor
accounting and financial performance to the forefront of management
attention much earlier than 1981, when matters had really gotten out of
hand. Although a lack of suitable milking cattle was continually



- 25 -
identified a serious problem, the decision to go ahead with the
importation of 1000 dairy animals in the closing months of the Project
could be questioned in the light of poor management and the prevailing
economic conditions. More attention might also have been given to the
training of key project staff from the beginning. Time was probably also
lost in pushing the ujamaa component too long and too hard, when it was
obviously beyond redemption.
7.03     Disappointment has been expressed by GOT at the Bank's general
discouragement of a Phase II Dairy Project. Arguments have been made that
the dairy parastatals have done "no worse' than other parastatals which
the Bank is continuing to finance, and that as the farm infrastructure is
now in place, cattle have been procured and there is a greater seriousness
concerning animal husbandry, a follow-up project could be used to
consolidate what already exists. There still remains the question,
however, of how far the implementation of any particular project in the
Tanzanian context can be isolated from the general policy and economic
environment in which it operates.
VIII Economic Re-Evaluation
8.01     The appraisal report had estimated the economic rate of return
(ERR) on Project investments at 18% over 25 years, based upon an increase
in average milk yields from 1,900 liters to 3,100 litres/cow and in
annual commercial milk production from 10 million liters to 20 million
liters by 1980 and 25 million liters by 1987. Better nutrition, disease
control, management and genetic quality of cows were to be used to
improve on the 1974 figures of a low calving rate of 50%, calf and adult
mortalities of 10% and 20% respectively, and a low slaughter weight of
250 kg.
8.02     As documented in earlier sections of this PCR, none of the above
targets was met in implementation of the Project. Management of
parastatal farms continued to be weak, the ujamaa dairy component failed
to take off, and the heifer breeding unit was shut down. Unfortunately,
the lack of up-to-date and consistent accounts (see para 5.01) makes it
impossible to obtain an accurate picture of the operations of individual
farms or their parent parastatals (including WFP contributions). It is
therefore not possible to re-evaluate the ERRs either on individual
components or on Project investments as a whole from the available data.
Only two conclusions can be drawn at this stage: (i) the ERRs on
investments on parastatal farms (and also on the Project as a whole) are
likely to be somewhat higher than the FRRs to the farms, given the
substantive evidence of significant unofficial milk sales (probably at
least 20-30Z of total production) and diversion of improved heifers to
the private sector that were never documented; and (ii) probably the only
part of the Project on which the ERR is lkely to be close to the
appraisal estimate is the milk processing component, which was completed
satisfactorily and began to be substantially utilized. For the Project
as a whole, however, all costs were higher than originally estimated
(particularly after taking wFP contributions into account) and the ERR on
project investments is therefore probably negative.



- 26 -
IX. Conclusions
9.01     In principle, the Project's justification and objectives, based
on increasing commercial milk production to satisfy the urban demand and
substitute for growing milk imports, was sound. However, the Project
concept proved unworkable in the context of a rapidly deteriorating
economic environment. The Project depended on the milk price being right
at the very point when the Government's overall response to the productive
sector was to squeeze it dry. The increasingly poor relationship between
the State and the peasantry made the ujamaa component non-viable from its
inception. The parastatal component of the Project was extremely
demanding technically. It depended on an economy where continuity and
predictability were assured and constraints in transport, input delivery
and supply of spare parts could be removed. This was not Tanzania between
1975 and 1983. Seen from the context of the times, the Project was overly
ambitious and had little chance of succeeding. As the economy worsened,
so did the likelihood of the Project's success.
9.02     It is relatively easy to catalogue both sector and
project-specific problems which kept the Project from working. These
included low producer prices, balance of payments problems, poor
parastatal management, inadequate animal husbandry practices, staff
demoralisation, and mismanagement. It would be facile to suggest that
easy options or solutions were available to correct these problems. In
fact, there were few meaningful alternative routes which could have been
taken short of not approving the Credit to start with or dropping the
Project very early on. The main dilemmas faced by the Bank throughout
implementation were: (a) how to deal with problems which at the same time
were both specific as well as symptomatic of a wider economic crisis; and
(b) whetber to drop the Project or continue with it. There was, in fact,
little the Bank could do in the context of its supervision missions
alone, and individual suggestions or chastisements were unlikely to
remedy the overall situation. The decision of the later supervision
missions was to push ahead with the Project in the hope that production
could be improved and the heavy cost of the initial development phase of
the Project would not have to be written off as a total loss. With
hindsight, it now appears that it would have been better to cut losses,
recognized that the fundamental problems of the Project were beyond easy
resolution, and closed the Credit much earlier (for example, in 1979).
9.03     Lessons to be learned from this Project are:
(a)      The Bank should seriously consider the question of what sort of
lending policies and projects, if any, are feasible, workable and
justifiable when the general economic situation in a country is rapidly
deteriorating. When the very viability of a country's basic
infrastructure is threatened, large-scale technically complex projects
which are geographically scattered and demand a high degree of
coordination should certainly not be attempted. To avoid false
assumptions and unrealistic expectations, projects should be appraised
and supervised in context, with careful analysis of how the wider economy
will affect project implementation, the achievement of project goals, and
the long-term sustainability of the investments made. When macro-economic
conditions change significantly for the worse in the course of project



- 27 -
implementation, supervision missions should be encouraged and supported in
coming up with appropriate and imaginative responses, in questioning the
continuing validity of appraisal assumptions, and in radically redesigning
or even closing down projects as necessary.
(b)      In projects where the quality of management is perceived to be a
principal risk, careful attention should be devoted to examining the
existing management structure and making detailed suggestions about how
and if existing impediments can be overcome. The role of parastatals in
effective project management should, in particular, be questioned. Where
their involvement is necessary or unavoidable, specific arrangements
should be made to allow project managements reasonable autonomy in
operational decision making and staffing policies, and to set up
objective criteria for monitoring their performance without burdening
them with head office overheads over which they have no control. In such
situations, internationally-recruited personnel might also be allowed a
more substantive role in operational decision making instead of a purely
advisory function.
(c)      It should not be automatically assumed that the smallholder
dairy sector is necessarily a more viable alternative for accelerating
dairy production simply because of the problems encountered in managing
parastatal farms. The question remains how much support they can be
given for technologically advanced dairy production with poor extension
services, lack of drugs, and inadequate supplies of feed concentrates and
veterinary services. Support for smallholder dairy schemes should
therefore be preceded by indepth analysis of their existing situation and
past experience, taking proper account of the feasibility of providing
the required services for developing modern dairy production systems.
(d)      Because of the difficulties of enforcement, pricing clauses
should only be included in legal agreements between the Bank and the
Borrower if they are critical to project success. If they are so
critical (as in this Project), they should be strongly enforced both
within the context of project supervision and through general sector
policy dialogue with the Government.
(e)      Where financial issues, including accounting and financial
management, are important in project implementation, supervision missions
should be appropriately strengthened by inclusion of a financial analyst
as soon after project start-up as possible. Moreover, unless there are
compelling reasons to the contrary, serious consideration should be given
to suspension of disbursements when audited accounts for implementing
agencies or for the Project become overdue by more than one year.



- 28 -
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER:        United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:          US$10.0 million equivalent
TERMS:           Standard IDA Terms
RELENDING TERMS: The following were the proposed relending terms:
Interest Amortization
Government to Tanzania Rural         4%      20 years
Development Bank (TRDB)                      including
five years
grace.
TRDB to National Ranching           8 1/2%  15 Years
Company, Dairy Farming                      including
Corporation, Tanzania Sisal                 four years
Corporation, NaAional Agri-                 grace.
cultural and Food Corpora-
tion, Kilimanjaro Native
Cooperative Union and
Ujamaa villages
TRDB to Tanzania Dairies Ltd.       8 1/2%  8 years with
no grace
period.
ESTIMATED COST:
(US$ million)
Local   Foreign     Total   Z of Total
Parastatal dairy
Farms              2.5         2.3       4.9       31
Ujamaa dairy
development          .4         .1         .5       3
Heifer breeding
unit               1.3          .1       1.4        9
Milk collection
and processing       .1         .4         .5       3
Technical services   .8         1.8       2.6       18
Contingencies:
physical             .5         .5       1.0        7
price              2.3         2.1       4.4       29
Total project cost  8.0         7.3      15.3      100



-29 -
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
FINANCING PLAN:                                     (US$ million)
Total       Z of Total
Government                   4.2           27
Parastatal crops             1.0            7
UJamaa villages              0.1            1
IDA                         10.0          65
Total                    15.3         100
ESTINATED                                  (US$ million)
DISBURSEMENTS:   1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79   1979/80
1.0        3.7        3.2         1.2       0.9



- 30-
Tmble 2
Page I of 3
DUhfr Deue1oent rojwect (Credlt 58D-)
Sumy of hmul Projewt Cost  (a; Project CmmenIts
C(Sh. axo)
___E__N_ __M_                  YEAR 1      YEWM 2      WEMR 3      WEMR 4      WMAR 5
Project Dairy Far..
Bb4 ea yo                      -        1,726.2      175.8        -           -       1,902.0
lIsEd                          -        1,883.5       -         160.0        -       2,043.5
Kitmia                      1,457.9      197.9         -          -           -       1,655.8
Iteresaer3e                 2,515.7      277.1        -           -           -      2,792.8
at--al-                                    -       2,940.6        -          -        2,940.6
lxwyi                       2,=2.0       913.2         -          -           -      3,735.2
Saleb Hi ei                    -           -       2,327.9      952.8        -       3,280.7
mownxQ                      1,577.6    2,737.3    2,462.1    3,379.4        960.0   11,116.4
UtL                                              -           -    2,C07   2,888.6      171.2
5,067.2
Sub--Ttal              8,373.2     7,735.2    9.913a      7,38D.8    1,131.2   34,534.2
IJjwaa Dairy Deke3npaent           -          -       3,2350-                    -       3,235.0
West LHbeEfer BreediMg Ubit    8,306.0    2,050.0         -          -           -      10,36.0
W]Ik Coflecti el adProcesnIng
am.I                        3,405.6        -          -           -          -       3,405.6
Nrtlmrxn nDirier ITd.         165.0        -          -           -          -         165.0
Sub-Tbtal              3,570.6        -           -          -           -       3,570.6
TdmclSexvcs
APMml HEalth - ApPied
Investigatin Work        430.0       430.0      430.0       43D.0      430.0    2,150.0
Tchrdcal. Assistanoe        3,045.0    2,835.0    2,705.0    1,925.0      1,505.0   12,015.0
Tmardr4-g and FWT psb4m,
MbiitorIng & Evlxalicn      170.0      170.0       170.0      170.0       170.0      850.0
actdical Support           1,432.4      852.2       832.2      483.2       373.8    3,974.2
Sub-Total              5,077.4     4287.2    4,137.2    3.08.6       2,478.8   18,989.2
lttl ra1IvestDet Gost
1A-Hg Ch=getfnrcies)        25,327.2   14,062.4   17286.0   10,389.4       3,610.0   70,675.0
Physical            (1)        2,532.7     1,406.2    1,728.6    1,038.9       361.0    7,067.5
Price Forlarate (15% p6a.)iI   4,179.0     4,988.6    9,904.2    8,559.9    4,016.1   31,647.8
oonhinteod                  6,711.7    6,38    U1,632.8    9,8.8          4,377.1   38,715.3
7CIAl PR0=Et C00.           32,038.9   2D,457.2   2B,918.8   19,988 2     7.987.1  109,0.3
1/ 15% (bi ied amwaly.
AgxaKil Report. A    13, Tabl] 1.



-31 -
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
-    (1h AIWL Pr=    amS - cA        CF EWI)l
CThh. '000)
70aL
WEmR I     YR 2       VER 3        EAR4    WYEAR 5      WEAM  -S
G,erint Danfr F
&Idldlg and Intualatiaum                    2,360.5    2,037.5    3,089.8    1,938.7         -       9,406.5
wbdney mand Equflpdt                        3,298.4    3,515.1    3,399.9    1,517.1         -      11,730.5
lLwu&k Pardche                                 -         900.0    1,282.0    3,175.0    1,131.2    6,488.2
odditU c(pLta1                              2,734.3    1,2J6    2,142.1         75D.0        -       6,909.0
Sub-Ibta                                 8.373.2    7,735.2    9,913.8    7,3so8       1,131.2   34,5S34.2
Ui_ Dar Deplpn
bdis and ato Imtiflaflim                                   -        785.0        -           -         785.0
Lieisto&k Purie                                -          -        2,080.0       -           -       2,080.0
Vakdu Cpltal                                   _                        o370.0   -           -         370.0
ub-.bra                                    -          -       3,235.0        -          -        3,235.0
Wkit Lii. HRer Brpeag Udit
Dd]dn amd Tr.tAflarlm                       1,440.0        -          -          -           -       1,440.0
1bdnny amd WpuL!                             124.2         -          -          -           -         124.2
Ltvsrnk Farc.a                              6,050.     2,040.0        -          -           -       8,090.0
'kddgC CpLtel                               691.8         -           -          -           -         691.8
Sub.btal                               8,306.0    2,040.0        -           -          -      10,6O
Nlk C1lct1aa  d P5S81%
Bdi,"    m! Tmtanlatlmu                    1,810.6        -          -           -          -       1,810.6
VPdeles, !Hi,ry mad  qipt                   1,76.0-                   -          -           -       1,760.0
Sub-Tatal                              3,570.6        -           -          -          -       3,570.6
T-dal Ser
Vddl, F*ipdpmt,   acellina                  1,187.4      607.2      587.2       308.6      268.8    2,959.2
lTed,ral asiartae, Studies                  3,890.0    3,680.0    3,550.0    2,700.0    2,210.O   16,030.0
Sub-lb=al                              5,077.2   14,062.2   17,286.0   10,389.4    3,610.0   70,675.0
Ibtal Obst (xcluding Coadz-g.l es)          25,327.2   14,062A4   17,286.0   10,389.4    3,610.0   70,675.0
CMUDlGEN                                   6,711.7     6,39.8   11,632.8    9,598.8    4,377.1   38,715.3
lUDAL FsoJEcr cosr                           32,038.9  20,4D.2   28,918.8   19,988.2    7,987.1   109,390.2
Source: Aw      f           13, lTb1  2.



- 32 -
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
(c) Stinxy of Amuml Projet Cost
T MAl Fo !          Toatl  o    fop   Totl   F    E
G      t Dsy F ms                   18.3      16.3       34.6   2.6      2.3        4.9        47
Umm_ Dary D_ekCt                     2.7       .5         3.2   .4        .1         .5        16
West 1.a1Bfl r huadi._ Unit          9.3       1.0       10.3   1.3       .1        1.4        10
MLk Colactml  Pno                    .5        3.0        3.5   .1        .4         .5        85
Tehbmlca Setikco
Dairy F&uin r a  Hm lreg     t     3.0       7.5       10.5   .5       1.0        1.5         67
u_Ja hllts (Proj FtPz!atlnn)       1.4       3.5        4.9   .2        .5         .7        7n
IIdinI Polt - Ap
madam] cxk               1.3       1.3         2.6   .1       .2         .3         67
ranlg.  ,dto
Evaluation, etc.                 .3        .7         1.0     -       .1        .1        100
6.0     1.3.0         .      1.8    1.8       2.6         69
Total Project Cbst eIFore
(bztmies                       36.8      33.8        70.6   5.2      4.7       9.9         48
yatqx AUOOC
RPiyLca at IIX                     3.7       3.4        7.1   .5        .5        1.0         48
Prlcescalat  at 15a p.a.          16.4      15.2       31.6   2.3      2.1        4.4        64
Sub-Total                      2D.1      18.6        38.7   2.8      2.6       5.4         z
Total project cost                56.9      52.4       109.3   8.0     7.3        15.3       48
Price c ncxtcies refect        and expced conditLom  in mada. Tn catg  costs, prica at 1rch 1.975 leiels
wre usa.
Smurce: Apissl Pheprt, p.14.



- 33 -
Table 3
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 590-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '00)
IDA Fiscal Year                                    Disbursements
and Quarter End                          In Quarter           Cumulative
1975/76
September
December
March                                          500                  500
June                                           500                1,000
1976/77
September                                     900                 1,900
December                                       900                2,800
March                                          900                3,700
June                                         1,000                4,700
1977/78
September                                     800                 5,500
December                                      800                 6,300
March                                          800                7,100
June                                           800                7,900
1978/79
September                                     300                 8,200
December                                      300                 8,500
March                                          300                8,800
June                                          300                 9,100
1979/80
September                                     300                9g400
December                                      300                 9,700
March                                         200                 9,900
June                                           100               10,000
Source: Appraisal Report, Annex 14.



- 34 -
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
amIN   _,iat rui:i  t(ud  SlO-U)
mCY DOEaUI   -  Z3: U WAWA MMwwmrm
Objecrvw     k    XPMLa    kbul  I thai    App Adul A              F PhaI    lmpmLL Aku.   1 ta
(1) Lava SmIa FaRM              for kt. 31,198D   1976         1976   be         197        1977  Mlecii    1978          1978 ae
.Jfu  ga   ta comIm        10 to
dmamlpe                 17a                 5        R.       R         in 10      D Y     76         15         I-J.,' R
.-m1nPt aitLacw           10am                 -        -                  -          -       -          7!        61K       -
of adolt cow m
f                      590                2011      2106      38       3274      3861      6S        3483       3Ro      69
(2) lhfer famdiw Psmet
.B1a"  amn pwj.t   3960 1/                   3960        0        0        a_       -Wpmd
JFI Hbfai PLamd          1798 ps.             0        0        0             aiZ _ .l.
(3) Ujmi Vim
Jkdt:m to omnotso50                            0         0        0         0         1        2          50         1       2
Jimkw of a&ilt ca
anffit                 lo0                  0        0         0         0        10        1        900         10       1
,m SX wa                                       -         -        _          _        _         _           _        _  
(4) MM PMt
arn-u sal-
JPIAt e                      -               1(11       2/      30          (1K     9s       91          10=1     9s5       9.s
Jdm:=:7& apdtwt              -               m1 0               50         10m       90      90          1=        1=       10
.ClectlaniIj               2     m           2 a2tar             -                    2       12           2         2      1001
.ALc to.uprt               Ix7tm0            bc7t        t      --                   -        -           -         -        -
.'ualm-umi1acEhcn& Goollm 2 omtsi           2 outax    6        3m           2        6       3m           2         6      301
(5).Tnc,mn_t e ik pin0Mt1a
an patatI dairy fair
(ufluin lifta)
I/ Pemelzx escb yew  Fl  301 acll1r.
2t/   1 T   It"_     Und,  o 1. ?n _xm  I. 11un. IbqaI, Azhmdo I & U (catd   a oe unit). bF. ad Ubu4.
I clad.. WLtmo I & n. 06ea I, Ir  . Aziml,   m    Pbim, lAw   I & r, 3m                M l ptm  1. law mil Gimumams.
A/ Inchdam 500 lf attle aC l        Qmm.
-5  rlnudd ad1tum of *    rr       . umKr 1.
Y/ llge flm  we for 9/80.
7/ VW="= rE re dz a-          d tme Aabo & To   uswit  umm   am oesh.
ti Tru1aid Rltbo rV aid V ifcld  mm  lowc tmmhd_L
9/ Go=mcl omrad .kmmty 1962
TO/ IFe tW-Y ldaOM   o tIn t5 SLVmrV1shinu Le=     my damn   rye 13 F am  ti  s kar, only 12 me liad in a     nc   t 19B1 wen  t   I ad TX em
COat   smccately.  Me 12 Faws aie lAuu, rg.zu1ipe. bn,di. NItulo I 6 rII tbeo. RbtI, Garsrum, AzPbo. C   q. 8a . B       6w Hbmlom.
I    t Cb  tnw re2u.t to =&= aer to 20.
2l 1UL  lk Tels i yIen for 193 man- bm  mud as NM OM  Flra Pmbwtim fhpz   qe adlv ur tLI ta. rch &P,dtctlnm 0a WM  Farm 'ate dm  by
705.00 litm  fxm  1982 to 19813. Tn 1982MM  OM  Ebm Bmtd 31 at IODL  czEaItal *ilk waAdcsha'.
Explaim    of Mazimat   ebum  Tty T  in stica -  xum  f ad lY Ibmica   - Fam  Ndw.t*... for atXad Thli P t..  frm thm Apural1
lprt + Samvlsm  Fqports fEs 1974-1983.
(a) Up mtIl td  end of 1979 there mm  17 fa. iutd  mdc of Zdcd mew          spd-ana ly avd 15 of the 17 lad staram  demlnpmn.
(b) A of 1960 It  r Pe Tl u     dI d fmi. the project ad tdra up sqi bEi Watexl aid. ALo the Aglabo ad leAn cm            uda W las hd pivalSy benn
cmowd as 5 sene   aunt  mae a,stJ aily a am sedh. F= tde bly hzdimoam. it q                 dat the    Pr of atts to commnce dloqmnt 
.-I uo   13, 1.ti   m kr m  aly  1  Id e _at:t ftiervace T '_ dmm udreiL
(c) rn 193.      , thern me  12 fam uidt.; hIt.er, in the key indictiohs the adduweaet to  123182      timdme rm  tit      Ws .  Jos buse ledo TV
ard V tme  or td          _ am utitwt, ewn td* tIy mmre  eentual1y mt fa Id    Mt cmdt.



Objective             Appr.       Actual   X Final  Appr. Actual    2 Final  Appr.   Actual  2 Final  Appr.    Actual  2 Final  Appr.   Actual   Final
for Oct. 31,1981      1979        1979      Ob]g 1950  1980 6J   Obj.   1981             1981    Ob].       1982      1982    Obj.       1983    1983       2 Obi.
15                    15          15        too        15    13 Z/       80    15 8/   13         87        13LO/ 13        100        13     13       100
1OOt                  792         76X       76X       852   78X             882    1002      802    802       1002        801      862    NA        NA        NA
5200                  4440        3981      77         5000  5170          100    5200    4000       77       5200      4150       80      5200   4915         95
20                    50             6      30         50     6            30     saae-------------------  2011!    6            30        20        6        30
400                   900          120       30        900   250           62     same-------------------  NA           NA       NA        NA       NA        NA
80                      -           55      69           -    55           69         -     -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -
-    46       58        80        57       56        80       80        100
1002                  1002        952       952       1002  952             952   1002    582       582       1002      585      582         -        -         -
1002                  1002        1002      1002      100   100            100    100      100      100       100       100      100         -        -         -   w
2                     2             6       3002         2    6            300       2       6      300         2         6      300         -        _         -   .n
-  -  -  -    -            -9/      -       O         -         O        -         -        -         -
15                                                                                 10       5.7      38       11.2      6.1      5.4       11.2    NA *2f
. 0



Dairy Dnvelopst Projct (Crdit 580't)
:r rmmna
M M M           D FAIN  E IICIN OEMFICEIDS (1976-1983  !i-MDM MDA FAIW  (1976-1983)2/
0,effkient                   Year   Kitulo  t4eren-   PaWd   Utqgi   Iva&  i  m               ta2I    lblaI*   wara m   Azaim1   PRwm* O
sere                                        Aerq.
1. Average Tbtal Fbrd             1976        720      593       645      798       395     402    3553        218        267        717       619      196
1977       716       666      648       84.4     504      444    3822        360       239         634       556       MA
1978       760       817     1007      1157      621      427    4789        398       240         740      487       249
1979      1036       799      935       868      541      506    4685        434       462         819      600       21D
1980      1236       822      890       896      536      641    5021        434       467         940      824       235
1981      1300       817      892       917      551      596    5073        546       425        1017       842      195
1982      1521       721      829       971      535      530    5107        510       452         825       801      165
1983      1806       645      885       865      552      545    5298         NiA      437         850       797      220
2. Awrvea    lbtal1O              1976        198      256       252      248       114     188    1256         N         111        554       304      115
1977       1%        260      265       118      186      192    1217        195       107         702       356       N                                        a'
1978       266       320      395       339      157      210    1687         NA       294.1       687      286        NA
1979       262       315      520       450      300      231    2279         Ni       223         670       341       i'
1980       662       374      469       453      295      287    2540        237.1     231         910      444       126
1981       647       436      470       419      249      286    2509        273.6     232.4       993       417      108
1982       797       366      435       388      239      293    2518        262.4     229.8      1006      352        84
1983       828       297      394       338      257      276    3218        260       246.6       831      360        75
MThrpt     900       700      600       700      425      425    3750
3. Average Om  In Mlk             1976        110       82       229       -         64     10D      585       N1          87        192       142       69
1977       153       132      234        72      105      121     817        139        83         232      241        NA
1978       248       173      345       244      110      138    1258         Mi       270         245       154      VA)
1979       325       168      368       290      205      146    1497        150       150         174      213        81
1980       395       196      337       252      188      178    1546        162.3     150.3       220      268        77
1981       346       259      345       315      184      163    1612        192.7     146.8       20       244        63
1982       441       226      299   272          177      199  1614          204       132.8       220      230        57                               ov
1983       502       199      274       167      221      188    1551        223.7      167.3      166       215       64                              ow oS
lkrt       720       560      480       560       340     340    300D                                                                                   0  1
* 1983 P utinn Cbeffleliints are only to NArch.                                                                                                                                              LA
1-h



rMM IDA MYiRY A   PFlllTIAN COEICM1l  (1976-1M 2/                                N-IADD Mt FARB (1976-1983)
oeaffilenit             Year    itulo   %w    Rx, Uteg   lwb   km   7uW u  ?hd bl=n* Nira Azii-Ald a
Ere                                   Aver. -.
4. Ibtal milk yield In       1976      313.7   156.0   425.7    14.2   115.5  171.5 1220.0    105        203        424     301    lOQ
'000 kg.                1977      576.8   303.5   713.9   183.3   279.8  278.2 2295.5    277        203       460      474     Na
1978     819.9   377.5  1007.5   474.8   291.7  297.1 3269.5    277         225       487     3D7     140
1979     1155.9   333.3  1017.1   661.1   575.1  328.8 4089.5    325        209       408     507     145
1980     1370.5   340.4   964.5   633.2   631.1  455.7 4395.4    448        246       584     647     110
1981     1076.3   458.6   831.7   628.1   688.1  371.7 4054.5    462        219       478     553     900 (?)
1982     1308.3   452.3   888.3   648.6   604.9  459.4 4361.9    519        268       393     447     127
1983     1239.4   377.3   687.6   361.3   537.3  453.8 3656.7    116         85        69     101      40
lbrget   2380.0   789.0  1105.0  1130.0   949.0  758.0 7111.0
5(a). Average mlLk yield     1976        6.4     4.7     5.4      9.4     5.0    5.5    6.0       NI       6.4       5.8     5.8       5.5
per cm day (k.).        1977      10.4      6.2     8.3     7.3      6.2    6.3    7.5      5.0       6.4       5.4     5.4      NA
1978       10.0    '.9      8.4     6.3      7.2    6.3    7.3      NA        6.5       5.4     5.5      5.0
1979       10.1     5.9     7.6     6.4      7.7    7.0    7.4      6.0       4.5       6.4     6.5      5.5
1980       9.5      4.7     7.8     6.9     9.2    6.2    7.4       7.6      4.9        6.6     6.6      4.0
1981       8.5      4.9     7.3     5.5    10.2    7.0    7.2       6.6       4.71      6.5     6.1      5.0
1982       8.3      5.1     8.2     6.1     9.8    6.9    7.4       7.0       5.39      5.0     5.3      6.0
1983       7.3      5.2     6.9     6.1      7.8    6.5    6.6       5.8      5.9       4.5     5.2      7.0
lhrget     12.0     7.0     9.0     8.5      9.0    7.0    8.6
5(b). Average oilk yield per   1976      4.3     1.7      4.6     0.15    2.7    2.5    2.7      NA        5.0       2.82    2.7      4.8
total cow day          1977        8.1      3.2     7.4     4.2      4.1    3.9    5.2      3.0       5.2       2.99    3.6     NA
(mlkftng) (dry)         1978       8.4      3.2     7.5     3.8      5.0    3.8    5.3     NA         2.1       3.11    2.9     NA
1979       12.0     2.9     5.4     4.0      5.3    3.8    5.6     NA         2.5       3.27    4.0    NA
1980       5.7      2.5     5.6     3.8      5.8    4.3    4.6      5.2       2.9       5.54    3.9      2.39
1981       4.5      2.8     4.8     4.1      7.5    3.5    4.5      4.6       2.6       3.35    3.4   Nbt pomuihLa
to cctrxint
1982       4.4      3.4     5.5     4.5     6.9    4.2    4.8       5.5      3.2        3.09    2.9      4.14
1983       4.1      3.5     4.8     2.9      5.7    4.5    5.3      5.0       3.8       2.22    0.76     5.9
hirgpt     12.0     7.0     9.0     8.5      9.0    7.0    8.6
* 1983 Production  teficients are crly to Muhrh.
0



MM MP,  MM  PARMB PMJC1I0N Q        ICIDITS (1976-1983 1.                                 NHoFAaD MA FASH  (1976-1983)2
R1.C                7m         NAC
OodfEicent                 Year  Kitulo   NBeren-  RWi  Utegi   'lbi   Ruvu  Total/   ?b1oao  G.rarquM' Azicio*  RanBe*  b
6.  bttal ilk yield per         1976          -        -        -        -        -      -       -       Ni      2332         NA,      Not    1400
lactation (Isa.)            1977         -        -        -        -        -       -       -     1423.0   2444        IIO0       NA        11
1978         -        -        -        -        -       -       -       N1       833.5    1005        NA       11
1979         -        -        -        -        -       -       -       NA      1396       1398    1824         Nit
1980     3442    1098      2912    2022      2612   1555   2273        2764.3   1642        1457    2004       1400
1981     3121    1108      2361     1780     2728   22m    2217        1689.0   1499        1166    1768       1600
1982     2828     1427     2276    2138      3087   1642    2232       1978.5   2029        1265    1905       20G0
1983     3473     1269     2249     1766     2822   1650   ;.24          NA        MA       1512    1845       1800
Thript   3400    2250       3000    2250      2750   2250   2550
7. Calvnig Z                    1976        55      32        19        -      56      53      51       N1        N11         99       70        NA
1977       78       51       88       61       56      63      66        NA        N1         90       65        PR                     Go
1978       93       54       87       72       70      66      73        NA        NA         49       37       N1
1979       70       53       71       64       68      63      65        NA1      N1          70       81        N1
1980       59       52       71       58       64      62      61       102.1      NA         97       78       N11
1981       53       59       73       75       74      57      65       102.7    N1           87       51        Nk
1982       56       62       69       70       74      68      66        97.8      NA        107(?)   81         NIL
1983       61       67       70       49       85      69      67        NA        Not        23.8    NA         N11
Target      80       80       80      80       80      80      80
8. Calvig tInterval Ln          1976          -        -        -        -       -       -       -       N1        Nit        NI1      Nit      410
months                      1977          -        -        -       -        -       -       -       NA        NA         NA,      NA        N1
1978         -        -        -        -        -       -       -       N1        NA        420       NA        NA
1979         -        -        -        -        -       -       -       NA1      N1         394       NA        NA
1980       13.1    12.8    13.5    14.0    13.4   13.6    U.4            NA        MA        392      384       470
1981       12.5    12.2    12.8    11.4    12.6   13.3   12.5            NA        NA        368      392       S00
1982       12.3    11.8    12.2    13.4    12.7   14.5   12.8            NA        1 N4      362      431       540
1983        12.8    11.8    11.9    14         13.5   13.3   12.9        NA        M1        349      449       500
TarEet      12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0   12.0
w 
1983 Production Coefficients are only to Mbrch.                                                                                                                     U'



1M   MA MMJI FAMS PEUWrIIN  FFICIm lI (1976-198311                                   WU*PACD MD  FARPM  (1976-1903)-2
TMA        NAPW
oefficient                Year  Kitulo  t4pre.w'  kari  UtegL  1m1 bi  .U  Total/   tIOMA C                 _araru    AzWd  Rs begb  10*
gere                                    Average
9. Ault morta1dty rate         1976         -                                                 -       NA       NA          1.5    N         1i5
1977         -        -       -        -        -      -       -       NA       NA          7      NA        NA
1978         -       -        -        -        -      -       -       NA       NA          6.8    NA        NA
1979         -        -       -        -        -      -               NA       N          27      NA       NM
1980        9.0      2.3     0.4      5.0      6.1    1.4    4.0       NA       NA          2.5     3        28 C?)
1981       13.2      6.6     4.1    13.5    13.9   18.5   11.6         NA       NA          7.8     8.7      30
1982        9.8      5.0     8.0      7.9      5.5    6.2    7.1       NA       NA         30.7     7.1       7.5
1983        7.3      6.8     7.2      6.6    11.0   12.9    8.6        NA       Nk          2.5    NA        NA
aret        5        5        5       5        5       5      5
10.  alf mrtality rate Z       1976         -        -        -       -        -       -      -       MA       NA          7.8    NA        30
1977         -        -       -        -        -      -       -       NA       Na         37.7    NA        NA
1978         -        -       -        -        -      -       -       NA       NA         38       16       NA
1979         -        -       -        -        -      -       -       Nt       68.6       31.4    NLA       N
1980       29.0    34.0      3.0    14.0    12.0   12.0   17.3         NA       35.5       28.8    12        56
1981       32.0    16.0    17.0    12.0    12.0   13.0   17.0          NA       34.6       29.8    38        69
1982       30.7    12.9      7.4    15.4       2.2   13.6   13.7       NA       15         22.4    24        13
1983       15.4    10.5    14.4    22.9        1.5   12.4   10.5       NA        7         14.6    NA        NA
Trget      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0   10.0   10.0
11. Post - waemng mortality   1960        13.2      4.6      2.2     9.2    24.1   10.2   10.6        NA       NA         NA       NA       NA
1981       23.8      2.9    13.9      8.6    23.9   23.5   16.1        NA       NA         NA       NA       Nk
1962       16.5      9.6     3.6    10.1    21.9   14.2   12.6         NA       NA         NA      NA        NA
1983        9.5    12.0    10.5       9.2    11.1    9.5   10.3        NA       NA         NA       NA      NP
argut      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0   10.0   10.0
Souroe  IDFWO Prodtxtion (befficients for 1983 are dated up thrag  Oecer; hcamer,                      Source:Indivdtainl Farm Rports
it is posaible that sm   my be projected rather than actual fil .                           * 1983 Prod&tion Cbefficlits arm only to Mbrds.
000D
o I..



-40 -
Table 6
TANZANTA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Fully Stocked Parameters: Actual vs. Appraisal
End of    Fully Stocked    Fully Stocked      Actual Stocking    Additiona321
Year      Appraisal        Actual Para-       Actual Parameters  Stock
Parameters       umeters                              Actual Para-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   m e t e r s
1   (76)         3.0              2.5               2.1                2.1
2   (77)         5.0              4.5               3.6                3.6
3  (78)          6.8              6.0               4.9                4.9
4   (79)         7.4              7.0                5.7               5.7
5   (80)        10.0              8.0               6.4                6.4
6  (81)         11.2              9.0               5.7(7.2)*          5.7(Actual)
7  (82)         12.5              9.7                6.2(7.8)*         6.2(Actual)
8   (83)        13.7             10.2               8.2)               8.8)Stock
9   (84)        14.5             10.8               8.7A/              9.9
)}                j
10  (85)         15.0             11.0               8.8)              10.0)
TOTAL            99.1             78.7              60.3               63.3
This table compares actual performance with appraisal estimates and what might have
been achieved if full stocking of the -ranches had been accomplished immediately and
projections of =Mik productions to Year 10 of the Project. Figures are in millions of
litres and are derived from production curves.
1/ Approval given to purchase additional head before March 31, 1983.
2/ Projected
Source: Supervision Mission Report January 10-17, 1983, Annex 6, p.l.



- 41 -
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(a) Milk Prices Y
(TShs)
Year                     Farm Gate Price   Factory Gate Price
1974 (Appraisal)                           1.14                1.34
1974                                       1.25                1.45
June 1975 - December 1975                  1.50                1.60
January 1976 - Narch 1976                  1.60                1.80
March 1976 - July 1980                     1.80                2.00
July 1980 - July 1981                      2.70                3.00
July 1981 - July 1982                      3.70                4.20
July 1982 - July 1983                      6.20                6.90
July 1983 - Present                        7.20                7.90
1/ Milk prices between mid-1975 and present came from Milk Price Review:
Background Report & Recommendations. Dar-es-Salaam: Dairy Development
Services, FAD, URT 81/016, June 1983. The figures from 1974 come from
the Appraisal Report and the LIDA Dairy Advisor's Report respectively.



- 42-
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(b) Farm Gate Prices in Real Terms
(1983)
Year             Price Farm Gate _               Index
(TSh)___
1975                   5.57                         100
1976                   6.14                         110
1977                   5.61                         100
1978                   5.00                          90
1979                   4.42                          79
1980                   4.25                          76
1981                   4.81                          86
1982                   5.77                         104
1983                   6.20                         111
1/ This table comes from Milk Price Review: Background Report &
Information, 1983, p. 6, Table 4. The index was constructed from this
table. Vol. I of the LIDA Dairy Advisor's Report, p. 33A lists the
actual price by year and the percentage decline in real terms.
The Milk Price Review: Background Report, p. 5 says an increase in
farm gate prices to TSh 8.25 would be required between mid-1983 and
mid-1984 to keep pace with the 33% projected rate of inflation
for the year.



- 43 -
Table 8
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of TDL Plant 1976-1981:
Fresh and Reconstituted Hilk
Year                      Total
Intake Fresh Milk           1976                       9,533
'000 litres              1977                      14,340
1978                     14,351
1979                     13,815
1980                     11,346
1981                      8,307
1982                      7,361
1983                      7,578
Reconstituted Milk          1976                      12,005
'000 litres              1977                     20,546
1978                     23,601
1979                     24,562
1980                     24,227
1981                     25,312
1982                     34,648
1983                     34,889
*Reconstituted milk as      1976                        75
% of throughput             1977                        66
1978                       68
1979                       65
1980                       72
1981                       77
1982                       82
1983                       82
Z increase in
reconstituted milk                                      +7
since project
Z difference in intake
of fresh milk                                           -20
Source: Report, John Davies, Dairy Expert, 1984



- 44 -
Table 9
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Grant of Imported Raw Materials from 1975 to Date
Year               Milk Powder                      Butter Oil
DSMP
M.T.                            M.T.
1975                2,000.000                       1,500.000
1976                1,697.400                         500.000
1977                3,777.931                         149.800
1978                3,503.484                            -
1979                3,095.887                         609.800
1980                2,797.871                         549.760
1981                3,556.100                         566.334
1982                3,601.000                         519.000
1983/84             3,219.000                         703.000
Sources: Table obtained from LIDA Headquarters. Their sources include:
1. WFP & EEC Audited Accounts up to 1981.
2. For the years 1982 & 1983 Draft Account figures.
3. Figures include Japanese Grant for 1981 and 1982. Japanese Grant is
only DSNP.
4. The EEC & WFP Consignments for 1983 are arriving only in 1984.



- 45 -
Thhlal0
7M TI   Partfoim : Sm1lblxD3dmr m  Ujs 1/
(a) &wllalder  D    Dr2y Pojcts
PgInn       Nlmer of  TamAsn,   ws  lam lMebured  Thh Dbtal          Ihpuydit1   !kpt Akres
ml        TSs            Ta
Arusb             11        136,400.0D       13,303.0O  41,918.30    2,293.75      (19,679.35)
Dz-es-Salsom      6         307,084.00       2M3,451.5    7,88.75       -          (7.88.75)
Ragam             12        138,000.0D       13,0.00         -          -               -
Kfiinjaro         38       428,410.00        281,569.80   5,699.15    3,461.3D     (2,197.65)
mma                1        31,50D.OD          2,014.0D   2,399.3D       -          (2,399.30)
!4isy             11        200,95.00        115,541.60   4,50.10        -         (4,540.10)
Ps  fp r           1       450,000.OD        200,000.0       -          -               -
nzaGM              2         25,200.OD        25,200.        -          -               -
mow                1        157,300.OD                       -          -               -
-:-hL             83      1,874,84.t00     1,095,059.90  62,439.60    25,755.25   (36,699.15)
(b) U|_ vilages
egimi       Vllage    Tx=          V.F.P.  TAm         btal Diu t    gmmt  krinra
Ap-e       Grt   Disbum
KUtmjmm          e d   150,000    75,000  144,909.40    22,947.00    4,171.10  (18,475.-9)
hra Pfeg1bm    RLsary.e    10,000    5D,000  100,OL2.50    1,127.35   3,2D.05   27,092.70
lgri Jim   100,000    50,000  102,264.20    23,465.55    4,8000   (18,665.55)
htrasbor   100,wo0    50,000  101,660.05    15,960.70   15,000.OD    (960.70)
1nm*a       85,000    42,600   82,546.50    14,063.35    4,877.05   (9,186 30)
Mbeya          I5sM       105,000    52,800  105,372.5D    61,406.15   20,833.2D  (40,574.95)
mTNL             6         640,000   320,000  636,765.15   148,972.60   88,201.40 (60,770.70)
1/ As of Nbweader 30, 1983.
Source: M,EB 1984. The last supervision report notes that cbeze
Were 6 UJjm.aa viLlages and 80 aUlbilder lame nelottamd
Ier the MA, Credit. 7BDB reports 9 and 83 respectively.



Dairy Developeit Project (Crlit 5-A)
1DAN SrAIS OF PARASWL MIM  FAR: TARANIA 1JL EVELIT
IDA 58D-TA IMN IREP     REVIEW 1982                                          MA4 580-TA UMN W   Y         REVER 1983
S( M(p.m.)  12(p.a.)            Tam L                                     DE LAUIM      12             lUEAL
FAUM4        AM{J               DIMES    REPAM T              ARREAS          FAM4       AMOIqT        ILrtMRIPS WANRE                ARAM
Bag1xy        18,616.15           223,398.80    244.808.00       21,414.20    B1gxyo   18,616.15         223,393.80     229,073.40       5,679.60
1i            18,407.40           220,888.80    220,907.70           18.90    Ruvu       18,407.40       220,880.80     220,888.80        -
%erengere    22,291.55            267,498.60    267,498.60             -      %eregere 22,291.55         267,498.60     267.498.60
Utegi         35,587.50           427,050.00    190,000.00    (237,050.00)   Utegi       35,587.50       427,050.0o     253,848.00    (173,202.0O)
Epi          42,706.80           512,481.60    252,000.00    (260,481.60)      gaiu     42,706.80       512,481.60     469,114.95    ( 43,366.65)
I%wabi        24,454.45           293,453.40    220,090.05      (73,363.35)    w         24,454.45       293,453.40      56,340.55    (237,112.85)
Azimio        35,854.55           430,254.60    310,624.25    (119,630.35)   Azimdo    35,854.55         430,254.60     430,254.60        -
Kitulo n      12,780.05           153,468.60      42,939.40    (110,529.20)   Kitulo II  12,789.05       153,468.60     140,305.40      (13,163.20)
Kitulo 1      12,414.90           148,978.80      78,159.60     (70,819.20)   Kitulo 1  12,414.90        148,970.80     136,563.90      (12,414.90)
Mblu          12,397.80           148,773.60    149,006.35          232.75    Mblai      12,397.80       148,773.60     154.973.40       6,199.80
Gararagua     48,225.90           578,700.80    294,000.00    (284,710.80)   GEraragwn 48,225.90         578,710.80     252,000.0o    (326,710.80)
K             35,000.ao                          420,000.00            -                 35,a3W.00       420 000 00     385.00o.0       (35,000.OD)
YEARLY TUrALS      3,824,952.60  2,690,033.95                             YEAY   m     30               2,995,861.60     829,0L.60
0



LMAN MMTAU OF PARASrATAL  IMM FARM: TANANIA RURAL DEM.1i
rD 580'oA LOAN EPA19  FEVIEW 1/1/84 TD 31/3.84                 SUMMA  FUR 27 DTWAt118 (31/1/82 TO 31/3/84)
INErAtu1       3                                     27                       31/1/82 -     AMIO UAMD       A/] TMfE
FAM         AMIJNT       DBtAULME    IPAYMMEr    ARREAS       IngUrALMl 3D   AMIMS         31/3/84       ARREARS T0       MMAL
AREAS         31/12/81        ARREAS
hbgauyo     18,616.15     55,848.45   57,268.35     1,419.90    502,636.05   531,149.75       28,513.70           -
Ruvu        18,407.40     55.222.20   18,829.00    (36,393.20)    496,999.80   460,625.50    (36,374.30)    (166,276.00)    (202,650.00)
Igerer8ere   22,291.55    66,874.65   66,874.65         _       601,871.85   601,871.85            -        (525,855.00)    (5Z5,855.00)
Utegi       35,587.50    106,762.50   81,975.00    (24,787.50)    960,862.50   525,823.00   (435,039.50)    (310,000.00)    (745,039.50)
Ibipi       42,706.80    128,120.40       -      (128,120.40)  1,153,083.60   721,114.95    (431,968.65)    (479,060.00)    (911,028.65)
Iw1bi       24,454.45     73,363.35       -       (73,363.35)    660,270.15   276,430.60     383,839.55    (207,987.00)    (591,826.55)
Azimo       35,854.55    107,563.65   46,005.60    (61,558.05)    968,072.85   786,884.45    181,188.40     (310,624.00)    (491,812.40)
Kitulo II    12,789.05    38,367.15   25,578.10    (12,798.05)    345,3D4.35   208,822.90   (136,481.45)          -
Kitulo 1    12,414.90     37,244.70        -      (37,244.70)    335,202.30   214,723.50    (120,478.80)    (171,000.00)   (427,960.25)
Mblooa      12,379.80     37,139.40   37,139.40         -       334,740.60   355,L73.15       20,432.55            --
Garag.s   48,225.90    144,677.70          -     (144,677.70)  1,302,099.30   546,000.00    (756,099.30)    (196,116.00)   (952,215.30)
Kan8e       35,000.00    105,000     48,907.00    (56,093.00)    945 000.00   853,907.00      91,093.00     (38,907.00)      10.)
YEARLY TrALS 956,184.15  382,577.10   (573,07.05) t8,606,143.35 6,082,526.S5  (2,523,616.70  (26,726,078.00)   4,976,3P-.65
Source: 1982-64 TRDB.
1981 DrnIwo Report, p. 63.
0Q1
I.J



- 48 -
Table 12
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COUTION REPORT
Operating Statement Summary : Parastatal Dairy Farms
1976         1977         1978         1979        1980
Tshs         TShs         Tasw         TShs        TShs
Tbtal Income    2,769,349    6,544,727    9,553,139    9,917,290   11,449,746
Tbtal Operating
costs          4,058,336    13,024,559   11,800,835   12,133,20    18,959,318
Net LoSs        1,288,987     6,479,832    2,247,696     2,216,530   7,509,572
Z To Total
Income            46%          99%          23Z           22%          65Z
Source: DANKWA Report, p. 6.



- 49 -
Table 13
TANZANIA
Dairy Development Project (Credit 580-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Analysis of Operating Costs (1981)
Parastatal Dairy Farms
DAFCO      TSA       KUC       NAFCO  11 FARMS
6 Farms   2 Farms   2 Farms   1 Farm  Combined
Directly
Unproductive                  z         %         X          Z         Z
Labour Costs                 20        24        24         15        21
Vehicle Running              13         9         9          4        12
General Overheads             7         3         4          8         5
Read Office Costs             9         6                   2         7
Total                        49        42        41         29        45
Directly Productive
Supplementary Feed
costs                     13         14        19         12        14
Animal Husbandry
costs                       3         4         3          5         3
Tractors/Machinery            9         8        12          7         9
Pasture Improvement           2         2         -          3         2
Total                        27        28        34         27        28
Fixed Costs
Depreciation                 15        19        12         23        16
Interest charges             9         11        13        21         11
Total                        24        30        25         44        27
GRAND TOTAL                 100       100       100        100       100
Source: DANRWA Report, P. 16



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U G A N(D A
RWANDA   T>y,   A
4                  711<,RunoFa
'     dby..~.      -. -
BURUNDA IW                    L
NyG    \         Ka0
ii ,r~
;:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1i
0
ZAIRE          \-          Puh 
.WN~ _                          Biq
Uvmnra ~ a   1
TANZANI A
'DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
M    Heifer Breeding Unit
ff Dairy Forrns (NumFber of Units)
A   Milk Processing Facilities
ARUSHA Ulornaa ConcenmtraolnS
Termtor-l Mein Rcoad
-  Other Main Roads        Railways
11Reg'onol Headquorlers
Regional Boundtiries
*Principal Awrports
--Intemationol Boundories
o     sio   100   1no   zoo   Z50
KILOMETERS
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
:'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



_IBRD 11411
I /'flt~~~, I    al. b..0w. by IA.m"' bIbi    Cho.*m,f 1.1P.  ofm,
:.,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oF -~ i,,  $                       F"Mm-ww
-  -  - @ _S S _,s, , ~~~~~~~~~~b_w~                       d    "W m  w- 
P.m.. Cupin.  mm VM.* &W ff. C'N   l~   . 0 .hm.v,pin
:  <  $ f~~~~~~~~~~~~.in. .~ m. wd I.SnU Aln   d V..     wb.D.      W...e  F.wI. uwS
'i ~~~~~~~~~~~~K  E  N  Y  A                                                        A        RfC A7
, a      t I.r    -- '                      ..wl..     mw1/ 1.
0              p~~~~~~~~~~
X  i   w          di             d f  k    ; Bondi
I    /ck113du <                 -                               MOZAMBIQUEI \R     /
T A/r                                                  4
tX    \  w<              )   x                         )o~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEREtR 
o \J / {8 / / PAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESv 9-SALAAM
< / / C 4 AM*ft )F t f /~~~~~~~~~~~~~n d'ia n
,,   /  \  <  > M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kbito }~~~~~~1
/   \  M!!Eo Nbhenqe > ZIRIN
_>;Wo  |     2     Y    )\      riV                     <  r       A     S     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"II
HWt~~~HA N.                                                                            k  K \n=W vnj
XAIIALAWI j  X-4----f  h-+ ~~~~~~~~~~~.-_~~A l
DD   X   j  Z  1                              M O ZA M  B I Q U E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Li
Ugango ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~DCME l9B






