Report No. 765-TA                                                                        FILE  COPY
Tanzania
Appraisal of
Dairy Development Project
May 23, 1975
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
Eastern Africa Region
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for offuial use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY hQUIVALENTS
US$1.0                   =        Tanzania Shilling 7.14 (Tsh)
Tshl.O                   =        US$0.14
Tshl,00                  =        US$140
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)               =          10,000 m2 = 2.46 acres
1 kilometer (km)             =          0.62 miles
1 square kilometei
(km )                    0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)              =          2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                  =          0.26 gallons
1,000 kg   1 metric ton      =          0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
AFO       -         AssiFtant Field Officer
AI        =         Artificial Insemination
BF        =         Butter Fat
CDIL      =         CoaEtal Dairies Induetries
DAFCO     =         Dairy Farming Company
DDC       =         District Development Corporation
D8M       =         Dar-es-Salaam
ECF       =         Eaet Coast Fever
FI        =         First Generation Cross in Breeding
FMD                 Foot and Mouth Disease
FO                  Field Officer
KNCU      2         Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union
LIDA                Livestock Development Authority
MATI                MiniEtry of Agriculture Training Institute
MIFUGO    =         Livestock Development Division, Ministry of Agriculture
NAIC      =         National Artificial Insemination Center
NARCO     =         National Ranching Company
NAFCO     =         National Agricultural and Food Corporation
NCCO      =         National Cold Chain Operation
TAC       =         Tanzania Audit Corporation
TANU      =         Tanganyika African National Union
TDL       =         Tanzania Dairies Limited
TPL       =         Tanzania Packers Limited
TRDB      =         Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TSC                 Tanzania Sisal Corporation
SMP       =         Skim Milk Powder
SNF       =         Solid Non-Fats
UHT       =        Ultra-High Temperature Processing
VO        =         Veterinary Officer
GOVERNMkNT AND PARASTATALS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..        ....................   i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION          .................................  1
II.   BACKGROUND  ..        .................................  2
A. General  ............                 ..* ;    2
B.  The Agricultural Sector  .............. ....         3
C.  The Tanzanian Dairy Industry  ... ..........        5
D.  Agricultural Services .................... .         7
E.  Agricultural Credit        ......................    8
III. THE PROJECT  9. * .....                       .9
A.  General Description  ...............                 9
B.  Detailed Features        ........................   10
C.  Project Costs  ............................         13
D.  Financing  .........................................  15
E.  Procurement         ..............................  15
F.  Disbursement  ........... .............            16
G.  Accounts and Audit  ... . ...................       16
H.  Project Reporting and Monitoring  .........         17
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..       ................  17
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS             20
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......... .        22
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ..............................         24
This Report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to
Tanzania in September-Octouer 1974, composed of Mr. D. Lomax, Ms. K.
Marshall, Messrs. P. Sihm and S. Steengaard (IDA), Mr. L. Sandberg
(FAO), and Mr. S. De (Trainee).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   The First and Second Livestock Projects in Tanzania
2.   Agriculture and Livestock in the Economy
Table 1. Staffing of HQ and Regional Services
Table 2. Training of Personnel for Livestock Development
3.   Ujamaa Villages and Dairy Development
4.   The Tanzanian Dairy Industry
Table 1. Estimated Breakdown of Cattle Population in 1972
Table 2.  Estimated Production of Goat Milk in Tanzania,
1967-1970
5.   Commercial Aspects of Dairy Development
Table 1.  Cattle Population and Milk Production
Table 2.  Net Imports of Milk and Milk Products,
1961 to 1972
Table 3.  Imports of Dairy Products, 1973
Table 4.  Estimated Total Demand for Milk and Milk
Products in Tanzania, 1970-1990
Table 5.  Imports of Dairy Products - West Lake Region
Table 6.  Imports of Milk and Milk Products:
Mbeya and Rukwa
Table 7.  Fresh Milk vs. Reconstituted Milk:
Basis of Calculation of Price Equivalents.
6.   Milk Collection, Processing and Distribution
Coastal Dairies Industries Ltd.
Table 1. Milk Intake 1970-August 1974 and Average
Fat Content in 1973/74.
Table 2.  Milk Grading System and Price of Fresh Milk
Table 3.  Average Daily Sales of Liquid Milk Products
(1970-73)
Table 4.  Average Daily Sales of Various Milk Products,
January-June 1974, Estimated Average Daily
Sales for 1974
Table 5.  Sales Prices (as from 3rd April, 1974)



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Table 6. Comparative Balance Sheets as at 31 December
1971-1973
Table 7. Comparative Manufacturing, Trading and Profit
and Loss Accounts for the Years Ended
31 December 1971-1973
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Table 8. Milk Supplies and Production
Table 9. Prices to Producers (from April 1, 1974)
Table 10. Average Daily Sales - August 1974
Table 11. Sales Prices in Arusha, Moshi and Tanga
Table 12. Comparative Balance Sheets as at 31 December
1971-1973
Table 13. Comparative Manufacturing, Trading and Profit
and Loss Accounts for the Years Ended
31 December 1971-1973
Mara Dairy Company Ltd.
Table 14. Comparative Balance sheets for the Years
Ended 31 December 1971 and 1973
Table 15. Comparative Profit and Loss Accounts as
of 31 December 1972 and 1973
7.   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Table 1. Comparative Balance Sheets as at June 30, 1972
Thru 1974 (Tsh '000)
Table 2. Comparative Profit and Loss Accounts for the
Years Ended June 30, 1972 Thru 1974
Table 3. Przoject Related Cash Flow
Chart     TRDB Organization Chart - 1974
8.   The Livestock Development Authority of Tanzania
Table 1. Project Related Cash Flow
9.   Development Projections
Parastatal Dairy Farms
Bagamoyo Dairy Farm



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Table 1. 1 Unit of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 2. Investment Costs
Table 3. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 4. Incremental Cash Flow
Iwambi Dairy Farm
Table 5. 1 Unit of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 6. Investment Costs
Table 7. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 8. Incremental Cash Flow
Xitulo Dairy Farm
Table 9. 1 Unit of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 10. Investment Costs
Table 11. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 12. Incremental Cash Flow
Ngerengere Dairy Farms
Table 13. Unit I   1 Unit of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 14. Unit II - 1 Unit of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 15. Investment Costs
Table 16. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 17. Incremental Cash Flow
Patel Dairy Farm
Table 18. 1 Unit of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 19. Investment Costs
Table 20. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 21. Incremental Cash Flow
Rongai Complex Dairy Farm
Table 22. 3 Units of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 23. Investment Costs
Table 24. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 25. Incremental Cash Flow
Saleh Hajeh Dairy Farm
Table 26. 1 Unit of 400 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 27. Investment Costs
Table 28. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 29. Incremental Cash Flow



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Tanga Complex Dairy Farm
Table 30. 5 Units of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 31. Investment Costs
Table 32. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 33. Incremental Cash Flow
Utegi Dairy Farm
Table 34. 2 Units of 356 Cows - Herd Projection
Table 35. Investment Cost
Table 36. Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 37. Incremental Cash Flow
Table 38. Government Dairy Farms: Summary of Investment
Costs
Ujamaa Dairy Development
Table 39. Model of Ujamaa Component - Herd Projection -
20 Cows
Table 40. Model - Investment Costs
Table 41. Model - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 42. Model - Incremental Cash Flow
Table 43. 50 Ujamaas - Investment Cost
Table 44. 50 Ujamaas - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 45. 50 Ujamaas - Incremental Cash Flow
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit
Table 46. Herd Projection
Table 47. Investment Costs
Table 48. Incremental Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 49. Incremental Cash Flow
Milk Collection and Processing
Table 50. Investment Costs
Table 51. Milk Collection and Transport: Coastal
Dairies Ltd.
Table 52. Milk Collection Center: Northern Dairies
Ltd. Investment Costs
Table 53. Collection Centers - Operating Costs/Unit
Technical Services and Project Preparation
Table 54. Investment Projection



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
10.   Parastatal Dairy Farms
11.   West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit
12.   Foot-and-Mouth Disease Control:  Applied Investigational Work
13.   Summary of Annual Project Costs
Table 1. Summary of Annual Project Costs - Project
Components
Table 2. Summary of Annual Project Costs - Category
of Expenditure
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15.   Project Reporting Procedures
16.   Tanzania Sisal Corporation
Table 1. Comparative Balance Sheets as at 31 December
1968-1972
Table 2.  Comparative Profit and Loss Accounts for the
Years Ended 31 December 1968-1972
Chart     Tanzania Sisal Corporation Organization Chart
17.   Financial Rates of Return
18.   Government Cash Flow from Project
19.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1. Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2. Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
1.   Livestock Development Authority Organization Chart
2.   Project Organization Chart
MAP
Dairy Development Project (IBRD 11411)



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's Development strategy emphasizes agricultural and rural
development. As part of its rural development program a balanced regional
development effort has recently been undertaken. Within this context greater
attention has been given to the construction of agricultural feeder roads,
rural water supplies and health and educational facilities. Government also
intends to concentrate its resources in directly productive investments, par-
ticularly in agriculture. Within the agriculture sector a high priority is
given to dairy development for economic, social and nutritional reasons since
imports of dairy products have increased rapidly to meet demand in the cities
and milk represents an important part of the rural diet.
ii.       The proposed Project is aimed at developing dairy production, in the
short-term, by developing dairy farms, and, in the longer term, by preparing
the upgraded dairy cattle that would be required to develop dairy at the vil-
lage level. It would comprise a five-year program to develop 17 dairy units
of about 350 cows each, 50 Ujamaa dairy units of about 20 cows each, a heifer
breeding program and improved collection, processing and distribution facilities.
It would also have an important element of technical services including,
technical assistance on the farmb; preparation of projects in the traditional
sector; and, applied investigational work on animal health.
iii.      Total Project cost is estimated at US$15.3 million.  The proposed
IDA credit of US$10 million would cover the foreign exchange costs and 33% of
local costs. All funds, excepting those for technical services, would be chan-
nelled by Government to TRDB at 4% interest per annum for 20 years with a 5-
year grace period. Loans from TRDB to DAFCO, TSC, NAFCO, NARCO, KNCU and
Ujamaa units would be at 8-1/2% for 15 years with four years grace period
while the loan to TDL would be 8-1/2% for 8 years and no grace period. Machinery
for milk processing (US$0.2 million excluding contingencies) would be purchased
directly from the supplier of the plants' existing equipment to ensure conformity
and tronomies on spare parts and service. Other contracts for machinery, equipment
and vehicles (US$2.0 million) would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Civil works contracts (US$1.9
million) which would be small and scattered throughout the country and unlikely
to attract international bids, would be tendered locally (about US$1.3 million)
or constructed by force account (about US$0.6 million). There is sufficient
local competition in most regions for works of this kind. Construction works
for Ujamaa units (US$0.1 million) would be done by village labor. Cattle would
be purchased locally (US$2.3 million).
iv.       The Project would support Government's dairy development objectives
by increasing production and improving collection, processing and distribution.
At full development the Project would provide full employment for an estimated



- ii -
650 people. 50 Ujamaa villages with a population of about 50,000 people would
derive additional net revenue of about US$5,000 per village per annum.
v.        As a result of the Project, total annual output of milk at full
development (1987) would be 25 million liters as against an amount of 10
million liters produced now by the commercial sector. An additional 1 million
liters would be produced in Ujamaa villages. Annual production of upgraded
dairy heifers would be about 3,000 animals per annum by full development.
vi.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 18% over 25 years.
Foreign exchange costs and earnings were shadow priced at Tsh1O per US$ to
reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange in Tanzania. Farm labor was
shadow priced at 50% of the actual wage which is equal to the value of sub-
sistence production.
vii.      The Project's principal risk is quality of management.  It requires
a high degree of technical expertise together with sound management and train-
ing skills. If management is not of high standard, expected high milk yields
will not be achieved, yields being more likely to remain at their present
levels or decline, resulting in farms not b,ing either financially, or eco-
nomically viable.
viii.     A US$30 million program loan was approved in December, 1974 to ease
the current adverse impacts on the Tanzanian economy (para 2.01). Eight IDA
credits totalling US$91.1 millioni and two IBRD loans for US$30 million have
been approved thus far for eight agricultural and one rural development proj-
ect in Tanzania. Agricultural projects include one for agricultural credit,
two for livestock, and one each for tobacco, tea, cotton, sugar, and cashew-
nuts. A further credit in 1971 provided US$3.3 million for agricultural
training, and a FY 1972 credit provided US$6.5 million for feeder road devel-
opment. Performance under the projects has been mixed.
ix.       The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.0 million.



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania places high priority on agriculture and rural development
in its development strategy, as over 90% of its population lives in rural areas
and is mainly engaged in traditional agriculture. To facilitate rural develop-
ment, and to promote a balanced regional development effort, Government, in
1972, undertook a major decentralization of its administrative functions to
20 regional administrations. This is designed both to make maximum use of the
growth potential in each region and to narrow the gap between regions in terms
of the supply of essential services. Within this context attention has been
given to the construction of agricultural feeder roads, rural water supplies,
health facilities, and the development of village centers with basic infra-
structure and services. Efforts also have been made to gear the educational
system more closely to the needs of a rural society. The Government has also
emphasized directly productive investment particularly in agriculture to de-
velop parastatal farms and promote village agriculture. Within the agricul-
tural sector, priority is accorded to dairy development for economic, social
and nutritional reasons, since imports of dairy products have increased rapidly
to meet demand in the cities, while milk represents also an important part of
the rural diet. The Government's strategy for dairy development aims at the
development of large-scale dairy farms run by parastatal corporations to sub-
stitute for imported milk products, and, in the longer term, at the development
of dairy units in villages throughout Tanzania to provide milk for the rural
population.
1.02      The proposed Project would assist the Government in achieving these
objectives, both in the short term by developing Government dairy farms and
improving milk collection services, and in the longer term by preparing the
upgraded dairy cattle and the technical and managerial base that would be re-
quired to develop dairy at village level. It would comprise a 5-year program
to develop 17 dairy units, of about 350 cows each, 50 Ujamaa dairy units,
with 20 cows each, a heifer breeding program, and improved milk collection,
processing and distribution facilities. It would include also an important
element of technical assistance.
1.03      A US$30 million program loan was approved in December, 1974 to ease
the current adverse impacts on the Tanzanian economy of petroleum price in-
creases and world-wide inflation (para 2.01). Eight IDA credits totalling
US$91.1 million and two IBRD loans for US$30 million have been approved thus
far for eight agricultural and one rural development project in Tanzania.
Agricultural projects include one for agricultural credit, two for livestock,
and one each for tobacco, tea, cotton, sugar, and cashewnuts. A rural develop-
ment project for the Kigoma region was recently approved. A further credit
in 1971 provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training, and a FY 1972 credit
provided US$6.5 million for feeder road development. Progress under these
projects has been slow but there has been some improvement recently; management



and staffing have been a continuing problem. Under the completed credit
project, a need was foumd for improved supervision of loan records and input
distribution. The first livestock project (also completed) was reasonably
successful, but the second project is progressing more slowly than anticipated
due to delays in preparation and approval of ranch plans, serious cost over-
runs in construction of slaughterhouses and frequent changes in project manage-
ment (Annex 1). Development of the tea project had been disappointing and
slower than expected and encountered difficulties due to inadequate services
and lack of effective management control. In the past recruitment of growers
for both tea and tobacco has been slow although this has improved substantially
recently. The cotton and cashew projects and the rural development project
have only recently become effective, but they too face serious difficulties.
The cotton project had been affected by the sudden acceleration of the villagiz;-
ation program in 1973 and 1974 requiring a major reorientation of the project
and causing significant delays. B3ids recently received for the major contract
for the cashew project were higher than anticipated. An agricultural and rural
development sector study for Tanzania was circulated in December, 1974.
1.04      The Project was mainly prepared by the Government.  The original
project proposal included 41 large-scale dairy units, the purchase of 5,000
imported Friesian dairy heifers, and the establishment of a pilot Disease Free
Zone to control Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD). During appraisal it was agreed
that for technical, financial and management reasons, this first phase Project
should only develop 17 large scale dairy units. The mission recommended that
no cattle importation be included,, because of the high death risk involved,
and because the proposed heifer b:reeding unit could provide an adequate supply
of upgraded cattle within a tew years. The establishment of a disease free
zone could not be justified in economic terms at this time, due to lack of
evidence on the impact of FMD on productivity in the traditional herd. The
Government agreed that the program of applied investigational work included
in the Project would be undertaken to assess the effect of FMD within the
traditional livestock sector.
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Tanzania in September-October, 1974, composed of D. Lomax, K. Marshall,
P. Sihm, S. Steengaard (IDA), L. Sandberg (FAO) and S. De (Trainee).
II. 3ACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Tanzania has a total area of about 880,000 km . The population of
14.3 million, which is increasing at about 3% a year, is concentrated in a few
regions, with about two-thirds of the people occupying only 10% of the land.
Tanzania is one of the 25 "least developed" countries in the world. Per capita
GNP was estimated at US$110 in 1973. The growth rate of the economy was about



-3-
5% per annum from 1964 through 1973, and actual growth has lagged behind the
Second Five-Year Plan (1969-1974) targets, mainly due to failure of the main
agricultural crops to reach plan projections. The 1973 drought and other fac-
tors, including the accelerated villagization program (Annex 3), resulted in
a serious reduction in agricultural production in 1974, necessitating major
imports of food grains and causing severe balance of payments problems. The
recent increase in petroleum prices and world-wide inflation have also had a
severe adverse impact on the Tanzanian economy (para 1.03).
2.02      Tanzania aims at reducing inequalities in income distribution
through emphasis on smallholder agriculture and rural development, and state
control of important industries, services and large-scale agricultural enter-
prises. Initiative for planning and implementing many development projects
has devolved to the regional and district administrations. A third five year
plan (1975-79) should be completed shortly; it is likely to emphasize develop-
ment of productive activity, particularly in the rural sector, in conjunction
with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and a more equitable income
distribution.
B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 2)
General Background
2.03      Agriculture accounts for roughly 40% of Tanzania's GDP and approxi-
mately half of the sector production is for subsistence. About 80% of total
exports come from agriculture. Most of the population (90%) lives in rural
areas, traditionally in smaIl isolated communities, and is engaged in agri-
culture. Agricultural exports in 1973 were valued at Tsh 1,743 million
(US$245 million), of which coffee accounted for 30%, cotton 20%, and sisal
and cashews 13% and 10%, respectively. Other exports included tea, meat,
pyrethrum and beans. Agricultural imports in 1973 amounted to Tsh292 million
(US$41 million) of which dairy products accounted for 24%, sugar 32%, and
food grains about 18%. In 1974, agricultural imports amounted to Tshl,050
million XUS$147 million) of which food grains amounted to Tsh790 million
(US$110 million). Imports of dairy products increased from about Tsh19 million
(US$2.7 million) in 1962 to Tsh7O million (US$9.8 million) in 1973.
Organization of Production
2.04      Most production is concentrated on smallholdings which are cultivated
by hand and produce family subsistence as well as cash crops. The family pro-
vides most of the labor, and hiring workers is discouraged as contrary to the
socialist principles of the country. Limited use is made of oxen, mainly in
the less densely populated western cotton areas. The area cultivated by a
family averages about 5-6 ha, varying from under 2 ha in the more favored
agricultural areas to 50 ha in less favored areas. Plots tend to be irregular
but fragmentation is a serious problem only in such densely populated areas



-4-
as Kilimanjaro. Shifting cultivatLon is practiced in many areas of the coun-
try. Important smallholder cash crops are cotton, cashewnuts, tea, tobacco,
coffee, and maize and rice.  Large estates produce sisal, coffee, tea and
coconuts, and state farms mainly wheat, rice and livestock. Estate production
has diminished in importance, and the state farm program remains small.
Ujirnaa and Villagization
2.05      The Arusha Declaration of 1967 reaffirmed Tanzania's commitment to
a socialist society and identified the Ujamaa Village as a means of effecting
self-reliance and a community approach to development. The Ujamaa village
was seen as a vehicle for providing economies of scale in delivering inputs
and social services, which could improve the lives of rural people. The ulti-
mate objective is that Ujamaa villages become multi-purpose cooperative
societies with powers to own land and to borrow. Most villages have been
formed by physical resettlement. rhe precise pattern of development within
each Ujamaa village has been left to-villagers themselves to decide, and
Ujamaa development has varied considerably among regions. The extent of col-
lective activity varies among villages, ranging from a predominantly communal
or block farm approach to one which continues traditional individual family
farus with a small communal venture for cash. The Government has provided
c*onsiderable assistance to newly developed Ujamaa villages, chiefly by way of
transporting villagers' effects, providing building materials for houses, and
provision of water supplies and other social services, but also in encouraging
them to develop productive activities. Within the past two years, the emphasis
has shifted from development of Ujamaa cooperatives to formation of "planned"
or "development" villages of between 1,000 and 2,000 families each. Under
this villagization program, a substantial proportion of the rural population
has been moved to new locations where the Government hopes to provide basic
services and infrastructure. The program has caused some disruption in agri-
cultural production (para 2.01), in part because of inadequate planning and
preparation, but also because the vast scope of the program necessitates a
uajor reorientation of traditional agriculture which is likely to take many
years.
Livestock
2.06      With about 10 million cattle, 7 million sheep and goats grazing
about 400,000 km2, livestock represents a major national resource. Livestock
development is the responsibility of the Livestock Development Division in the
Ministry of Agriculture (Paras 2.12, 2.13 and 2.14). Most of the cattle pop-
ulation is in the traditional sector and although individually owned are
grazed on communal land. The location of the traditional herd is broadly
determined by the absence of tsetse fly, which precludes extensive cattle
keeping in the southeast and in large areas of the west. The greater part of
the herd is located in the Mwanza, Shinyanga, Musoma and Singida regions, and
large concentrations are also found in Dodoma, Arusha and Kilimanjaro. The
offtake rate of the herd is only about 10% and productivity is extremely low;
a calving rate of about 50%, a caLf and adult mortality of about 20% and 10%



-5-
respectively, an average liveweight at slaughter of about 250 kg, can be
attributed to inadequate nutrition, high disease incidence and parasite infes-
tation, poor management, and the poor genetic quality of the native cattle
(small East African shorthorn Zebu). The potential for livestock development
in Tanzania is enormous, both through an improvement and intensification of
husbandry in existing cattle areas, and by extending these areas through tsetse
control.
Animal Health
2.07      Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine Plueropneumonia, formerly major
killers of cattle, have been successfully controlled by a Government vaccina-
tion program involving about one million cattle per year; the last recorded
cases occurred in 1964 and 1965, respectively. Tick-borne diseases, particu-
larly East Coast Fever (ECF), cause serious losses in the traditional live-
stock sector, but the Government is seeking to control these diseases by
constructing dips throughout the country (1,300 to date) and operating them
free of charge for traditional producers; the major problem is to persuade
these producers to dip cattle regularly. Tsetse fly, the vector responsible
for trypanosomiasis of cattle and sleeping sickness in humans, infests more
than 60% of Tanzania, where beef production is possible only if prophylactic
drugs are used or a tsetse barrier one to two km wide of cleared scrub, treated
when necessary with insecticides, is established around the area. Foot-and-
Mbiuthi Disease (FMD) is endemic in the major cattle areas. The Government
operates a control program involving vaccination and quarantine of infected
herds, but the disease is nevertheless widespread. Other significant disease
problems include internal parasites and liver fluke, which are controlled by
drenching.
C. The Tanzanian Dairy Industry (Annex 4)
Milk Production
2.08      The Dairy industry in Tanzania is relatively under-developed, and
Tanzania has imported an increasing volume of dairy products to meet rising
demand in the urban areas (para 2.03). Milk is produced at present by four
categories of producers. A small commercial sector is engaged in modern
dairy farming, using almost exclusively exotic dairy cattle. Some farms are
privately-owned, but most are now run by parastatal corporations; they are
concentrated in the Arusha-Kilimanjaro and Dar-es-Salaam regions, and sell
milk to the commercial daries there. The Tanzania Sisal Corporation (TSC)
(Annex 16) as a part of its diversification program is establishing beef
ranches and dairy farms in the Tanga region. Average yields per cow are
estimated at 1,200 to 3,000 liters per lactation, 1/ but average herd yield
is only about 1,900 liters per cow per lactation. Commercial dairying has
1/  Lactation is the period in each year during which a cow can be milked.



-6-
declined in recent years, and estimated total raw milk sales to the two major
dairies fell from 8 million liters to 5.5 million liters between 1969 and
1973. The departure of non-African farmers and low milk prices have contributed
to this decline, and many farms now stand in urgent need of rehabilitation.
By far the largest volume of milk is produced by traditional cattle owners.
An estimated 4 million cows each produce about 300 liters of milk per lactation,
and milk not required by calves is consumed by humans, constituting an im-
portant part of rural diets; total production is estimated (very roughly) at
475 million liters a year but only about one half that amount is available
for human consumption and virtually none is sold outside the village. While
the long-term prospects for increasing milk production in this sector are
good, this will come only with general improvement of the herd and improvement
in cattle husbandry. Milk is also produced by a relatively small group of
traditional cattle owners for whom milk represents a source of cash income.
They sell milk either to dairies or rural processing centers or directly to
consumers in towns and villages. Some farmers own a few exotic or mixed
dairy cows, particularly in the Arusha-Kilimanjaro area; in other areas such
as Mara surplus milk from traditional cattle is sold. Finally, milk is
produced in a very limited number of Ujamaa villages as a communal venture
with mixed success.
2.09      Tanzania enjoys many natural advantages that favor dairy development,
including suitable climatic conditions in several regions, and a strong tradi-
tion of cattle husbandry. The principal constraints on dairy development in-
clude the location of some high potential areas far from major markets, poor
rural road networks and limited milk collection services, low milk yields of
traditional cattle, shortage of feed during the dry season, weak extension
services for dairy, shortages of inputs, and inadequate research to develop
dairy farming systems suitable for Tanzanian conditions. If these constraints
are removed or minimized, Tanzania could develop a viable, indigenous dairy
industry, producing all its milk requirements.
Milk Processing, Marketing and Consumption
2.10      Less than 2% of milk produced in Tanzania enters the commercial
sector; most is consumed raw or slightly soured in villages. Five dairy plants
serve the major urban markets; they are located in Dar-es-Salaam, Arusha,
Utegi, Musoma, and Vyanwezi. Plants in Mbeya and in Tanga will begin operat-
ing shortly. Tanzania Dairies Ltd has been formed to act as a holding company
with the seven dairy plants as blanches. The two largest plants, Coastal
Dairies Industries (CDI) in Dar-es-Salaam and Northern Dairies in Arusha
rely heavily on imported milk powder, butter oil and fresh milk (from Kenya)
and produce reconstituted milk by recombining these with local raw milk and
water, and process and pack 't. The existing plants produce at well below
full capacity, because of limited local fresh milk supplies, technical problems
and outmoded or inadequate equipment. Milk is packaged in 1/2 and 1 liter
packs and sold through numerous retail outlets in the large cities. Some
yoghurt and cream are also produced. Local milk supplies could be increased
somewhat if milk collection services and cooling centers were introduced or



extended. However, surplus milk available in the immediate vicinity of the
large plants is quite limited, and major investment in collection services
would be uneconomic unless substantial production increases were achieved
(para 2.08).
2.11      Demand for dairy products has risen rapidly, and this tren¢l is
likely to continue as cities and towns expand and incomes rise. Milk sales
could readily be doubled in many cities if fresh milk supplies were increased
and plant capacity were expanded. In the rural areas, dairy products are
much sought after but are available on an irregular basis; poor people are
prepared to pay high prices for fresh milk (up to Tsh 1.50 per liter in some
areas) when they can get it, and pay substantially higher prices for manufac-
tured milk products (which are also scarce) thaa for fresh milk equivalents.
Further milk production could provide a good source of income for small far-
mers and would also improve levels of nutrition by supplying much-needed pro-
tein and vitamins.
D. Agricultural Services
2.12      The Livestock Development Division (MIFUGO) of the Ministry o.
Agriculture is responsible for all policy matters relating to livestock, in-
cluding dairy. It carries out its policies through its veterinary, husbandry,
research, training, and extension staffs and through parastatal corporations.
The Livestock Development Authority of Tanzania (LIDA) was recently estab-
lished as a statutory body with broad responsibilities in the field of
livestock development, including marketing and production (Annex 8). Two
existing parastatal companies, the National Ranching Corporation (NARCO)
and Tanzania Hides and Skins Ltd. have been placed under LIDA, and two new
subsidiary companies with responsibility for dairy development are being
formed: the Dairy Farming Corporation (DAFCO) and Tanzania Dairies Ltd. (TDL)
(para 2.10). NARCO is responsible for the development of large-scale beef and
breeding ranches, Tanzania Hides and Skins Ltd. for curing hides arLd skins,
DAFCO for developing large-scale dairy farms and TDL for developing and
managing commercial milk collection, processing and distribution facilities.
MIFUGO also runs livestock breeding units and bull centers, for upgrading
cattle, and has recently launched a major Artificial Insemination (AT) program
with Swedish assistance (Annex 4).
Extension Services
2.13      The agricultural extension service is organized on a wegional and
district basis, with policy direction and technical support provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture. About 2,500 field staff are engaged in crop work and
a further 800 in animal husbandry, animal health, and, to a limited extent,
dairy development programs. The regional livestock staff is headed by a
Regional Livestock Development officer assisted by a regional veterinary
officer and, in some regions, particularly those in the Project areas, a dairy
advisor. He supervises a District Livestock Officer, who has under him various



-8-
Field Officers (FOg) and Assistant Field Officers (AFOs) who constitute the
field extension staff (Annex 2). AFO's are generally posted in villages.
The extension staff is generally highly motivated, despite limitations of
staff and funds, poor logistic support, frequent transfer of staff, and
inadequate extension programs. Extension in the field of animal production
(including dairy) is particularly weak, but disease control is relatively
effective. Training for agricultural extension workers is generally adequate;
a new training institute will open shortly in Mbeya, and will include specific
training for dairy extension staff.
Research
2.14      Agricultural research is carried out at twelve major centers each
of which covers several crops or livestock. Livestock research is divided
into production and animal disease activities. Research on animal disease
has been effective, and involves routine diagnosis and classification of
diseases.  There is a need for further research on the traditional herd, how-
ever, since little is known about the relative impact of various diseases at
village level. Animal production research has been limited, and has focused
on breeding and pasture development. Further research is needed, particularly
for dairy, to develop effective techniques for fodder production and conserva-
tion and to develop various farming systems adapted to Tanzanian conditions.
E. Agricultural Credit
2.15      Tanzanian credit institutions, National Bank of Commerce, Tanzania
Investment Bank and Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) are wholly Govern-
ment-owned with TRDB responsible for agricultural credit (Annex 7). It was
created in 1971, as the fourth of a succession of rural credit institutions
and the third since independence. It took over the operations of the former
National Development Credit Agency together with agreed assets and liabili-
ties. TRDB has its head office in Dar-es-Salaam and operates regional offices
giving countrywide coverage.
2.16      The Government's intention when forming TRDB was that it would be-
come a sound institution, competently staffed and, although Government-owned,
possessing a reasonable degree of autonomy. The Bank/IDA concurred with these
objectives and in support of them has agreed that TRDB should be the credit
channel for a number of IDA credits in the past few years, (first and second
livestock projects, and the tea, tobacco, cotton and Kigoma projects). However,
it would not have been prudent for TRDB to function without substantial tech-
nical support and consequently it has played a somewhat secondary role under
these projects in that the major technical decisions have been taken by the
specialist authority (e.g. tea, cotton and tobacco) while TRDB has acted as
the disbursement, accounting and collection agency. It has thus been build-
ing up its portfolio at the same time as it has been strengthening its staff
and procedures. Although weaknesses still exist (para 2.17), this procedure
has been satisfactory and if it continues TRDB should be capable in the future



- 9 -
of takinig on an increasinigly large share of project responsibilities. Under
the Dairy Project, TRDB would function very much as it has under previous IDA
projects with the exception of the Ujamaa component (paras 3.06 and 4.03) for
which it would have its own technical staff and be primarily responsible for
all preparation and supervision aspects. In view of TRDB's progress to date,
this degree of responsibility seems appropriate.
2.17      TRDB provides long, medium and short-term credit to farmers through
cooperative societies and Government guaranteed soft-term loans (3% p.a.) for
particular Ujamaa development projects. TRDB is funded by a Government equity
investment of Tshl13.2 million and loans of Tsh5O million. Other authorized
resources of about Tsh235 million have come from IDA and other international
aid funds onlent by Government with IDA accounting for about 80% of these
other resources. TRDB's loan portfolio over the last three years has increased
from Tsh79 million to Tshl40 million and annual net profits over the same
period have increased from Tshl52,000 to Tsh946,000. Credit control is weak
due to lack of staff at all levels and arrears of loan repayments falling due
in fiscal 1974 were about 23%. About one-fifth of these arrears are more than
12 months old (para 4.03). Technical assistance is given to borrowers by
regional rcpresentatives trained in agriculture and economics. Regional
representatives and head office staff are also becoming nore involved with
project identification and preparation activities but this work is hampered
by shortage of staff. In order to strengthen both its credit control and
identification and preparation work, TRDB has recently engaged 18 new credit
supervisors and a further 30 are presently involved in training programs
prior to being appointed. It is anticipated that with this increase in staff
and maintenance of good management, TRDB will, in the near future, have the
capacity to prepare large scale credit projects suitable for external financing.
The standard rates of interest set by Government and charged by TRDB are
8-1/2% on short-term loans and 7-1/2% on medium and long-term loans, and
these rates are consistent with other lending rates in the country which
range between 7-1/2%o and 9-1/2%. Government, for this Project, has proposed
increasing the medium-term rate from 7-1/2% to 8-1/2% per annum.
III. TUIE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would represent the first stage of a long-term program
to develop dairy farming in Tanzania. It would over five years support the
rehabilitation and expansion of commercial t' iry production on parastatal
farms, improve milk collection and processing facilities, and provide the
basis for dairy development in the traditional sector by supporting a pilot
Ujamaa dairy program and by producing upgraded dairy heifers.  It would in-
clude:
(a) establishment and development of 17 dairy units of about 350
cows each at 9 locations;



- 10 -
(b) development of small dairy units of about 20 cows each in 50
Ujamaa villages;
(c) establishment of a dairy heifer breeding unit;
(d) expansion of milk processing facilities, by replacement of
equipment, and improvement of milk collection and
distribution services; and
(e) technical services to include: within the Livestock Development
Authority, the services of five group managers, a manager for
the heifer breeding unit, and specialists on machinery maintenance,
dairy husbandry and pasture improvement, a dairy economist and
provision for consultancy work on irrigation, processing and farm
structures; within TRDB, a project preparation team consisting
of a livestock specialist, an agriculturalist, an animal re-
sources and extension specialist, and a pasture specialist backed
up with consulting services; within the Ministry of Agriculture's
Livestock Development Division, a veterinary economist to conduct
a program of applied investigational work for animal disease
control.
3.02      The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
Project implementation. The proposed dairy units would be owned by DAFCO,
8 units; Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union (KNCU), 3 units; TSC, 5 units;
and National Agricultural and Food Corporation (NAFCO), 1 unit while LIDA,
through its subsidiary DAFCO, would be responsible for managing the units.
TRDB, with the regional livestock staff, would be responsible for the Ujamaa
dairy program, NARCO (para 2.12) would establish the West Lake heifer breeding
unit, and TDL (para 2.10) would be responsible for the milk processing and
collection component. Ministry of Agriculture, LIDA and TRDB would direct
and coordinate technical services.
3.03      The Project would have a dual objective.  The first:  To increase
milk production on Government-owned dairy farms, many of which already exist
and urgently require substantial investments and improved management. Milk
thus produced would help to fill the large deficit of dairy products for the
major urban markets, and should permit the Government to reduce imports of
dairy products. The second objective: to develop dairy in the traditional
sector, by training managers, producing required basic stock, and developing
appropriate farming patterns. This should provide the basis for a second
dairy project that would strengthen dairy extension services, extend rural
processing facilities, and provide essential inputs such as credit.
B. Detailed Features
Dairy Farms (Annex 10)
3.04      Seventeen dairy units of about 350 cows each would be developed or
established on nine farms in five regions (see map). Seven new units would



- 11 -
be established and ten units would be rehabilitated and expanded. The condi-
tion of these farms varies widely, ranging from quite successful dairy farms
to very run-down farms with animals in poor condition. Two new farms would
be established also. The farms are located near existing or planned pro-
cessing facilities. Modern intensive dairy farming practices would be follow-
ed, with the predominantly exotic cattle of various breeds already there.
Because of the short harvest season, a high degree of mechanization is nec-
essary to produce and preserve sufficient fodder for the long dry season. The
objective would be to achieve high herd average milk yields, estimated at 3,100
liters per lactation (Annex 9 - herd projections) throughout the year. The
farms would, in addition to producing milk for the urban markets and steers
and improved heifers, serve as a nucleus for development of farming techniques
applicable to different regions and geographic conditions, and for training
managers and farmers in dairy farming. They would share machinery with smaller
farms in the vicinity where possible. Development of these units should per-
mit the Government to develop parastatal dairy farming models that could be
extended to other farms in the future. On some farms, plantation crops (coco-
nuts, coffee, sisal) or food grains are now produced and could be continued
and extended if such activities complement dairy (providing concentrates or
fodder) and are profitable.
3.05      Investment required would vary according to the state of existing
facilities, equipment and cattle and local conditions (need for water develop-
ment, availability of labor). The main items financed would include buildings
and installations, water development, equipment for pasture development and
fodder production and preservation, milking machines where local conditions
require them, cooling equipmept, vehicles, cattle, and working capital which
would be one year of incremental operating expenses for each unit (Annex 9,
Tables 2, 6, 10, 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35, and 38).
Ujamaa Dairy Farms (para 2.06)
3.06      Small (20-cow) dairy units would be developed in 50 Ujamaa villages
in regions with good potential for dairy (Annex 9, Table 39), as a pilot
program to develop dairy in Ujamaa villages. These units would be based on
upgraded cattle from the heifer breeding unit and to some extent from the
dairy farms in the Project (para 3.07), and would be run as communal ventures,
with milk sold within the village in most instances. Since no strong tradi-
tion of Ujamaa dairy farming exists, careful planning would be required to
select villages and to prepare appropriate farming systems. TRDB, with the
regional livestock services, would undertake this planning, prepare village
investment plans, and supervise development of the units (para 4.05). In
most cases the dairy unit should be one of several communal ventures pro-
ducing cash revenues. The alternative cash revenues would be used to service
the loan since at its start, this development could entail significant risk
due to animal deaths, and, it is likely that the milk produced would be con-
sumed rather than sold for cash. This program should help to develop the
technical and institutional base for future dairy projects. The principal
investment items for the dairy units would be simple buildings and installa-
tions, including fencing, some equipment, livestock and working capital
(Annex 9, Table 40).



12 -
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit (Annex 11)
3.07      A breeding unit would be established at NARCO's Kitengule and
Missenyi ranches in the West Lake Region (see map) to produce about 1,800
dairy heifers a year, for sale to dairy farms, individual farmers, and Ujamaa
villages. These heifers would be essential to build up herds for future dairy
projects and on the dairy farms and Ujamaa dairy units developed under this
Project.  The breeding program wouLd use 6,000 zebu-boran cows existing on
the ranches, and would be based on artificial insemination with imported semen
from pedigree dairy bulls. High grade bulls are available at the ranches to
allow for any breakdowns in the AI program. The program would experiment
with different dairy breeds, but most heifers would probably be first cross
zebu-boran-friesian. Higher grade heifers could also be produced if there
were a demand for them. Heifers would be reared on the ranches and sold at
about eighteen months. The breeding unit would share facilities and equipment
with the ranches, which would continue their beef operations. Items financed
would include some additional buildings, fencing, a nitrogen plant for semen
storage, breeding stock, and working capital (Annex 9, Table 47).
Milk Collection, Processing and Distribution
3.08      The Project would improve milk collection systems in Dar-es-
Salaam and Arusha, and processing and distribution facilities in Dar-es-
Salaam. Coastal Dairies Industries (CDIL - Annex 6), Dar-es-Salaam would
develop a milk collection system, which has not existed in the past. Two
collection centers with 3,000 liters daily cooling capacity and one seven-
ton tanker for transporting milk would be provided. The cooling units would
be located on dairy farms, and would serve neighboring small producers.
Equipment would be provided to extend and improve the collection system
operated by Northern Dairies, Arusha. The facilities of CDII. would be expanded,
out-moded equipment replaced, and new equipment provided to permit a doubling
of processing capacity, to remove bottlenecks that have prevented full
utilization of existing capacity, and to permit expansion of yoghurt production.
Vehicles would also be provided to improve CDIL's milk distribution. The
principal investment items would include construction of the expanded plant,
cooling and processing equipment, and processing equipment, and vehicles for
transport (Annex 9, Tables 50, 51, 52 and 53).
Technical Services (Annex 9, Table 54)
3.09      Technical Assistance and Project Preparation.  Technical assistance
would be provided for the dairy farms, the West Lake heifer breeding unit and
the Ujamaa dairy units, to train Tanzanian managers, develop management sys-
tems and administrative procedures, and prepare future dairy projects. Due
to the detailed technical aspects of these functions, it is unlikely that
many of these positions could be filled by Tanzanians. Salaries of interna-
tionally recruited specialists (about 14) and logistic support would be pro-
vided for:
(a) Dairy Farms - five group managers to assist in developing
farm plans, manage a group of dairy farms for the first three
years of each unit and provide technical support for other



- 13 -
dairy development. Additional technical support would be
provided at LIDA headquarters, and would include specialists
in machinery maintenance, dairy husbandry, pasture improve-
ment, and dairy economics, and there would also be provision for
consultancy work on irrigation, processing and far., structures.
(b)  Heifer Breeding Unit - A farm manager to develop the farm plan
and manage the farm.
(c)  Ujamaa Dairy Unit - A project preparation team to include
specialists in livestock and agriculture for three years each
and specialists in animal resource/extension and pasture develop-
ment for two years each.
(d)  Applied In -stigation Work (Annex 12).  A pilot program on the
impact of Foot-and-Mouth Disease, other animal diseases and
existing animal husbandry practices on the traditional cattle
herd would be initiated. This program would be designed to
analyze existing information on herd coefficients and the
reported incidence of FMD and other diseases and to conduct
applied investigational work at village level to measure losses
in production that result from FMD ou,tbreaks. The principal
items for this component would be a veterinary economist and
staff and logistic support.
(e)  Financial Specialist - TRDB would be provided with consuiltant
support to help determine its arrears position and develop
effective recording systems for outstanding debts.
(f)  Training, monitoring and evaluation - funds would be provided
for overseas fellowships and short courses on dairy farms to
develop skills in dairy farming techniques, and for studies
to assist in monitoring and evaluating Project performance.
Operating Expenses and Working Capital
3.10      It will take 5 years of concentrated attention by the technical
services staff to establish the income earning capacity of the farms. The
operating costs of these services have therefore been considered as investment
costs for the five-year Project period. Farm working capital is conlsidered
to be the first year's operating costs; the Project costs provide for farm
working capital.
C. Project Costs (Annex 13)
3.11      Total Project costs are estimated at Tsh 109.4 million (US$15.3
million), of which Tsh 52.4 million (US$7.3 million) or 48% represents
foreign exchange requirements. Details are summarized in the following
table:



-14-
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
-------Tsh millionE-      --      US$ million---         %
GovergnmentDair_Fayn s         18.3     16.3     34.6    2.6       2-3      4.9        47
BJaaa Dairy Devel.opment        2.7        .5      3.2     .4        .1       .5       16
ti.WeEt Lake Heifer Breeding
Unit           9.       'L.0     10.3    1.3        .1      1.4       10
Milk Collection and.
Pro. ces sl         .5       3.0      3.5      .1       .4       .5        85
Technical Services
Dairy Farms & Heifer
Breeding Unit               3.0      7.5     10.5    .5        1.0      1.5        67
Ujamaa Units (Project
Preparation)        1.4       3.5      4.9    .2         .5       .7        71
Animal Health - Applied
Investigational Work        1.3      l-3      2.6      .1       .2        .3       67
Training, Monitoring,
Evaluation, etc.              .3       .7      1.0      -        .1        .1      100
6.0    T13.0    179.0    71 v                7        m
Total Project CoEt before
contingencies     36.8      33.8     70.6    5.2       4.7      9.9       48
Contingency Allowances
Physical at 10%             3.7      3.4      7.1      .5       .5      1.0        48
Price escalation at
15% p.a.          16.4      155.2    31.6    2.3       2.1      4.4       48
Subtotal            20.1      18.6     38.7    2.8       2.6      5.4       48
Total Project Cost         56.9     52-4    109.3    8.o       7.3     15-3        48
Price contingencies reflect recent and expected conditions in Tanzania.  In
computing costs, prices at March 1975 levels were used.



- 15 -
D. Financing
3.12      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
Tsh              US$
(million)       (million)         %
Government of Tanzania       30.0             4.2           27
Parastatal corporations       7.6             1.0            7
Ujamaa villages               0.4             0.1            1
IDA                          71.4            10.0           65
Total            109.4            15.3          100
3.13      The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would be to Government
on standard IDA terms. The credit would finance about 65% of total Project
costs, including foreign exchange costs and 33% of local costs. The Govern-
ment's contribution and that of the parastatals would amount to about 35% of
total Project costs, which would be offset to the extent that Project costs
include about US$0.2 million for taxes and duties. IDA's contribution ex-
cluding taxes and duties would be about 66% of total Project costs.
3.14      All funds, excepting those for technical services, would be channelled
by Government to TRDB at 4% interest per annum for 20 years with a 5-year
grace period on interest and principal. Loans from TRDB to DAFCO, TSC, NARCO,
KNCU, NAFCO and Ujamaa units would be at 8-1/2% for 15 years with four years
grace period on interest and principal while the loan to TDL would be at
8-1/2% for 8 years and no grace period. The rate of 8-1/2% for medium-term
loans represents a one percentage point increase over the existing rate charged
by TRDB for such loans (para 2.16). Loans advanced by TRDB would be equivalent
to the investment models (Annex 9) excluding working capital as beneficiaries
would contribute their own working capital requirements. Funds for technical
services would be channelled directly by Government to TRDB, LIDA and MIFUGO
and would take the form of grants. Assurances as to the above arrangements
were obtained at negotiations. A condition of credit effectiveness would be
that a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and TRDB acceptable to
IDA had been executed.
E. Procurement
3.15      Machinery for milk processing (US$0.2 million excluding contingencies)
would be purchased directly from the supplier of the plants' existing equipment
to ensure conformity and economies on spare parts and service. Other contracts



-16-
for machinery, equipment and vehicles (US$2.0 million) would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
In evaluation of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin
of 15% or the existing rate of Import duties, whichever is the lower. Civil
works contracts (US$1.9 million) which would be small and scattered throughout
the country and unlikely to attract international bids, would be tendered
locally (about US$1.3 million) or constructed by force account (about US$0.6
million). There is sufficient local competition in most regions for works of
this kind. Construction works for Ujamaa units (US$0.1 million) would be done
by village labor. Cattle would be purchased locally (US$2.3 million). All
orders would be bulked to the mnaximum extent possible. Government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory, would apply to small individual purchases
not to exceed US$50,000. Draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding
US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before invitations were issued.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement pro-
cedures would be followed. Retroactive financing may be required for technical
assistance but this would not exceed US$50,000.
F. Disbursements (Annex 14)
3.16      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 80% of each loan approved by TRDB (para 3.14) for development
of dairy farms, ujamaa units, heifer breeding unit and milk
collection and processing (US$6.5 million);
(b) 100% of the foreign or 80% of local expenditures for technical
services salaries, fees and equipment (US$2.Omillion).
Disbursements against (a) would be made on the basis of certificates of ex-
penditure indicating that procurement procedures specified in the Credit
Agreement had been followed and that the related investments are only for
investment plans approved by IDA. The documentation would not be submitted
for review, but would be retained by the borrower and made available for
inspection by IDA during the course of Project supervision. Disbursements
against (b) would be fully documented. Any funds remaining in the credit
account following completion of the Project would be used at the discretion
of IDA for other Project-related activities.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.17      TRDB, LIDA, TSC, KNCU and NARCO would maintain separate records and
accounts for the Project adequate to explain all Project related activities.
DAFCO and NARCO would maintain for each farm all cost and other information
necessary for proper management control. Assurances as to these arrangements
were obtained at negotiations. While TRDB's operating policies are satis-
factory there is a need for improvement in loan supervision and organization



- 17 -
of information on outstanding debts (para 2.16). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that a consultant would be employed to assist TRDB in develop'
ing effective recording systems for its portfolio and in improving procedures
for loan supervision.
3.18      The accounts of TSC are audited by an independent private auditing
firm. Under the Livestock Development Authority Act 1974, the Tanzania Audit
Corporation (TAC), which audits the accounts of TRDB, KNCU, NARCO and other
parastatal organizations, was appointed the auditor of LIDA and its subsidiaries
(DAFCO, TDL, etc.). In the past there have been delays in TAC presenting
audited accounts due to a shortage of personnel. Government and TAC, with
the assistance of Swedish aid, have made considerable efforts and have suc-
cessfully overcome this problem. The accounts of Government Ministries are
audited by the Auditor General who has a satisfactory degree of independence.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the accounts of TRDB, NAFCO,
KNCU and TSC, LIDA and its subsidiaries (NARCO, DAFCO and TDL) would continue
to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and that a certified
copy of these accounts and detailed auditors reports thereon would be submitted
to IDA within six months following the end of their financial year. The
Government were reminded at negotiations that TAC's continued acceptability
would be dependent upon maintaining its achievement of high auditing standards
and timely production of audit reports.
H. Project  eporting (Annex 15)
3.19      Detailed procedures for reporting are described in Annex 15, and
the suitability of these were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
all Project activities. LIDA and its subsidiaries (DAFCO, IARCO, TDL), TSC,
NAFCO and TRDB are already under the general direction of the ministry. A Co-
ordinating Committee would be established for the Project. It would include
the Director of Livestock Development of the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Managing Director of LIDA, the General Manager of TRDB, a representative of
the External Finance Division of the Treasury, a representative from the
Prime Minister's Office, representatives from TSC, NAFCO and KNCU and the Project
Co-ordinator. The Head of Technical Services in LIDA would be appointed as
Project Co-ordinator. The committee, whose members, with the exception of
the project co-ordinator and the TSC, NAFCO and KNCU representatives, are all



- 18 -
represented on the LIDA board of di'rectors, would meet quarterly and would
have responsibility for policy guidance, coordination and reporting to IDA.
Separate Project components would be managed as follows: the dairy farms by
LIDA's subsidiary, DAFCO, and the IJjamaa dairy farms by TRDB and the Regional
Livestock Services, the West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit by NARCO (LIDA
subsidiary), the milk collection and processing component by TDL (LIDA sub-
sidiary); and technical services by the Ministry of Agriculture, TRDB and LIDA.
LIDA
4.02      The Livestock Development Authority of Tanzania (LIDA - para 2.12
and Annex 8) would supervise implementation of those parts of the project
to be carried out by its subsidiaries, DAFCO, NARCO and TDL. LIDA was es-
tablished as an operational organization in July 1974, and it functions as
a holding company with five service divisions (procurement, administration,
finance, marketing and technical services), and the four subsidiary com-
panies named above (para 2.12). The service division chiefs are currently
employed by LIDA and are assisted by a staff of about ten. The Managing
Director of LIDA is responsible to a Board of Directors, appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture, and the chairman is appointed by the President.
LIDA's resources include funds provided by Parliament either as grants or
loans, loans from Government or other sources, and revenues from its operations.
Due to the highly technical nature of the Project LIDA would be assisted in
its Project activities by nine internationally recruited technical specia-
lists (Annex 9, Table 54).
TRDB (paras 2.15-17, Annex 7.)
4.03      TRDB would be the channel for IDA financed loans for dairy farms,
ujamaa units, the heifer breeding unit and milk collection and processing
(para 3.14). It would have direct responsibility for preparing and supervising
loans for Ujamaa dairy units, in conjunction with the regional livestock
services. TRDB would approve loans on the basis of investment plans prepared
by the responsible agencies. TRDB's normal procedures and staff are adequate
to carry out this function. For the Ujamaa dairy program, which would in-
volve substantial preparatory activities for future projects (para 3.03), a
special unit would be established including internationally recruited specia-
lists and counter-part personnel.
Project Developments
4.04      Dairy Farms.  DAFCO would manage the dairy farms.  TSC, KNCU and
NAFCO already operate or are developing some of the proposed farms (para 3.02).
Each unit would be managed by a Tanzanian farm manager and an assistant manager.
Units would be grouped under the general direction of five group managers
who would be internationally recruited, and who would supervise between two
and five units, depending on location and development work required (Annex
10 para 54). The group manager would live on one of the farms in his group.



- 19 -
The group manager and farm managers would prepare an investment plan for each
farm (para 3.04), which would be submitted for review to the Head of Technical
Services within LIDA. TSC,NAFCO and KNCU plans would then be returned to
their Boards for final approval. Each of the plans would then be forwarded
to the coordinating committee for approval and submission to TRDB. These
plans would cover the farm management system to be employed, with particular
attention to feeding programs, fodder production and conservation, pasture
improvement, breeding policies, and recommended milking technique. The plan
would include basic data on the farm and the proposed phasing of investment.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) DAFCO and TSC had obtained title to farms to be
developed by them;
(b) Farm investment plans would be submitted to
IDA for approval; the outlines of these are set
out in Annex 9;
(c) LIDA would consult with IDA on the appointment of
group managers and farm managers. It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that at least
three group managers had been recruited, and
of disbursement for each group of farms that the
group manager for that group had been recruited
and that a contract satisfactory to IDA
had been signed between DAFCO and each of KNCU,
NAFCO, and TSC.
4.05      Ujamaa Dairy Units.  TRDB would prepare plans for the Ujamaa dairy
program, including general guidelines and criteria for development, recom-
mended farming systems, and individual loan documents for each of 50 Ujamaa
villages. They would be assisted by the regional livestock officers through-
out the program, but particularly in the implementation stage. Internation-
ally recruited specialists with specific responsibility for this program
would be a livestock specialist, agriculturalist, and agricultural economist,
and consultant services for pasture development would be needed within TRDB.
These specialists, located in Dar-Es-Salaam, would provide assistance to TRDB
staff in Dar and in the regions. This same team would assist TRDB, LIDA and
the Ministry of Agriculture in preparing future dairy projects, with primary
emphasis on village level developments. In preparing the Ujamaa dairy loans
particular attention would be accorded to: (a) existing herd size, experience
with livestock and dairy, and previously expressed village interest in dairy;
(b) suitability of the site for dairy, particularly altitude and rainfall;
(c) capacity of regional livestock services to provide technical assistance;
(d) alternative sources of cash income for villages; (e) proximity to project
parastatal dairy farms; (f)animal health situation; and (g) proposed disposition
of milk (sale or consumption). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
detailed plans for Ujamaa dairy development, including a list of Ujamaa villages
with general data on them, would be submitted to IDA for comment before loans
were made.



- 20 -
4.06      West Lake, Heifer Breeding Unit.  NARCO already manages the Kitengule
and Missenyi beef ranches where the heifer breeding unit would be located, and,
would develop and operate the breeding unit there. An internationally re-
cruited veterinarian would supervise the breeding program, while a NARCO man-
ager would oversee general operations. A detailed development plan would be
prepared and submitted to LIDA and TRDB for approval. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that this plan would be submitted to IDA for approval within
six months of loan signature.
4.07      Milk Collection and Processing.  TDL would be responsible for the
milk collection and processing component, through its CDIL, Dar-es-Salaam,
and Northern Dairies, Arusha (para 3.08). These are both well established
and have adequate management to carry out the Project. Plans for the plant
expansion at CDIL have already been prepared, and CDIL and Northern Dairies
would prepare tender documents for plant and equipment, with assistance from
LIDA.
4.08      Technical Services.  With the exception of technical assistance
for respective Project components described above, Ministry of Agriculture
would be responsible for technical services, including the applied investi-
gational work program (para 3.09) to be supervised directly by the Director
of Livestock Development and his research service, training and special
monitoring and evaluation studies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a detailed proposal for the applied investigational work program for
animal disease control would be submitted to IDA for comment.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Project production would be derived from increased production of
milk, production of high grade heifers, additional steers, improved milk
collection services, and increasec processing capacity.  Project non-commercial
production in Ujamaa villages is estimated at 1.1 million liters a year in-
crease. Total milk production in Tanzania is currently estimated at 500
million liters a year with about 10 million liters entering commercial markets.
Annual incremental Project product:ion by year 5 would be about 10 million
liters of milk, valued at Tsh 12.3 million (US$1.7 million), and by full
development in 1987 (year 11), it would be about 15 million liters of milk,
valued at Tsh 18.4 million (US$2.6 million), 2,850 dairy heifers, valued
at Tsh 4.0 million (US$0.6 million), and other livestock sales valued at
Tsh 7.2 million (US$1.0 million).
5.02      Milk produced on project parastatal dairy farms and provided through
the improved collection system would be sold to the commercial dairies. On
completion of planned plant expansions, including those proposed under this



- 21 -
Project, the capacity of the processing facilities should be adequate to
handle the anticipated increased volume (para 2.10, 3.08). Milk produced
in Ujamaa villages would in general be sold within the village, but in,some
instances surplus milk might be sold to commercial dairies. Heifers produced
by the parastatal dairy farms, the Ujamaa dairy farms, and the heifer breeding
unit would be sold through existing marketing channels, where there is a
substantial demand for such animals. Steers would also be marketed through
these channels.
5.03      Milk prices are controlled at the producer and retail levels for
commercially processed milk. Producer prices are established at the region-
al level in consultation with processing plants, and in the past these prices
have varied among regions. Retail milk prices are also set by regional
authorities. Prices for milk sold outside commercial channels fluctuate
widely according to season and level of supply in the region; in many cases
these consumer prices are higher than the price paid by the dairies, although
compulsory marketing orders oblige producers to sell milk to dairies if they
exist in the vicinity. The Government has attempted to keep milk prices low
since milk is viewed as a product of primary necessity, but has indicated
that it will increase the price to ensure an adequate level of milk produc-
tion in Tanzania. Current prices range from Tsh 0.5 to Tsh 1.14 per liter
with the average being about Tsh 1.00. A uniform national milk price of
Tsh 1.25 a liter (US$0.8 per gallon) to producers has been proposed. This
price level should assure an adequate financial return on dairy farms at
current price levels, and is reasonable in that it is equivalent to prices
paid at present for imported skim milk powder and butter oil used for producing
reconstituted milk (Annex 5, Table 7). Pricing policies will assume greater
importance in future as the commercial market is extended, with construction
of new processing facilities, and as the traditional dairy industry expands.
Price levels should therefore be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that
they are set at a level that will assure an adequate return both to large
and small producers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that con-
sultations on milk price levels would be held with IDA from time to time not
less frequently than annually. The Government confirmed its intention to
raise milk prices to Tsh 1.25 per liter. Heifer constant 1975 prices are
Tsh 1,400 (US$198) although at full development grade heifers produced at
Government dairy farms would probably be worth significantly more.
5.04      Milk produced in Ujamaa villages would represent increased consump-
tion. Milk sold to commercial dairies would subsititute for imported dairy
products and would thus reduce import requirements, and represent savings of
foreign exchange of about Tsh 20.0 million (US$2.7 million) annually at full
development. The annual net foreign exchange saving would be about Tsh 12.5
(US$1.8 million) in 1987. Milk produced by the Utegi and Tanga farms would
be required for processing plants there to operate at economic levels (Annex
6).



- 22 -
Producer Benefits
5.05      Financial rates of return on investments 18% for dairy farms, 28%
for the Ujamaa dairy units, and 33% for the West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit
(Annex 17). In calculating these returns constant prices estimated at March
1975 levels and, the Government's proposed milk price of Tsh 1.25 per liter
were used (para 5.03). Milk procuced by Ujamaa villages was valued at Tsh 1.0
per liter to allow for transport and collection costs. The returns for some
of the dairy farms and for the heifer breeding unit reflect incremental
investments, since farms are already operating. An important benefit from
the Project which cannot be quantified would be the development and demonstration
of dairy farming techniques, which would be an essential prerequisite for future
dairy development, both through parastatal companies and at village level.
Farmer Benefits
5.06      Ujamaa vilages participating in the Project would derive bene-
fits either in the form of increased milk for consumption (and thus improved
levels of nutrition) or its equivalent value as cash revenue, estimated at
Tsh 21,600 (US$3,000) per village annually at full development, and
Tsh 14,000 (US$2,000) annually from livestock sales (excluding price con-
tingencies).
Government Benefits
5.07      The dairy farms, heifer breeding unit, and milk collection and
processing services would produce revenues for parastatal companies. Sur-
pluses would be available tq be turned over to the Government Treasury. Pro-
ject-related cash flows are shown for the Government in Annex 18, for TRDB
in Annex 7, Table 3, and for LIDA in Annex 8, Table 1. Taking into account
other Project costs and service on the IDA credit, repayments from TRDB for
Project loans and transfer of surpluses from LIDA, TSC, NAFCO, NARCO and
TRDB, the Project is expected to result in a net cumulative cash surplus to
the Government of Tsh 13.6 million (US$1.9 million) by year 5 and Tsh 123.7
million (US$17.3 million) by year 15 (excluding price contingencies).
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.01      The benefits of the Project would consist of increased production of
milk and high grade dairy heifers (para 6.01), which would result in savings of
foreign exchange and increased milk consumption in villages where nutritional
levels are low.



- 23 -
Economic Rate of Return (Annex 19)
6.02      The economic rate of return from the Project is estimated at 18% over
25 years. Project investment and operating costs with the exception of the
applied investigational work program for animal disease control and that part
of technical assistance intended for future project preparation were included
in the rate of return calculation. The cost of unskilled labor on farms and
Ujamaas was valued at one half the prevailing wage rates, which reflects the
value of foregone subsistence production. All other labor costs, for construc-
tion and for processing plants, were valued at prevailing wage rates, which are
assumed to reflect the economic cost of this type of labor. Foreign exchange
costs and benefits were valued at Tsh 10 per US$1.00 to reflect the scarcity
value of foreign exhcange; if it were valued at the prevailing exchange rate
(Tsh 7.14 = US$1.00), the overall economic rate of return would be reduced by
2 percentage point to 16%. Separate financial rates of return have been cal-
culated for those separate Project components which are directly productive
(para 5.05), and each of these is satisfactory; in each case the economic rate
of return would be higher. Milk prices were assumed to be Tsh 1.25 per liter
at the outset of the Project, which is the price currently paid by CDIL for the
equivalent imported ingredients required to produce a liter of reconstituted
milk (para 5.03); this price was reduced by 1% a year to 1980 to take irto
accouint anticipated declines in world milk powder prices.
Sensitivity and Risk
6.03      An increase in total costs of 10% would lower the rate of return by
4 percentage points to 14%. A decrease in total benefits of 10% would lower
the rate of return by 4 percentage points to 14% (Annex 19, Table 2). The
principal risk involved in this Project relates to the success of farm manage-
ment on the dairy farms and the heifer breeding unit. The Project requires a
high degree of technical expertise together with sound management skills, par-
ticularly in training of Tanzanian managers. If management is not of high
standard, expected high milk yields will not be achieved, yields being highly
likely to remain at their predevelopment level or to decline, resulting in
the farms not being financially or economically viable. Care should be
exercised by the Government and IDA to develop the institutional and procedural
framework that will promote development of the managerial capacity required.
The Ujamaa villages involve a high risk since experience with this farming
model is very limited, and the program is essentially a pilot effort. However,
given the volume of production in the traditional sector at 475 million liters
annually (more than 90% of total milk production), the benefits resulting from
the program could be enormous. The quality of management within this program
and the amount of Government support are crucial. Offsetting tbhese risks,
however, are the benefits the Project would offer in developing the trained
manpower and technical basis that would be required to develop a viable dairy
industry in Tanzania.



- 24 -
Employment and Income Distribution
6.04      Fifty Ujamaa villages, with an estimated population of 50,000 people,
would derive additional cash revenue of Tsh 36,000 (US$5,000) per annum per
village, or the equivalent value in additional milk for village consuimption
(para 5.01). The Project would provide additional revenue for the Government
which could be used in its progrars to promote rural development and balanced
regional development (para 5.07). The Project would provide employment for an
estimated 650 persons who would be employed on parastatal farms; an additional
300 persons would be employed duri ng the construction period.
VII.  REC()MMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) that farm investment plans would be submitted to IDA for approval;
(b)  that LIDA would consult with IDA on the appointment of group
managers and farm managers (para 4.04);
(c) that detailed plans for Ujamaa dairy development, including a list
of Ujamaa villages with general data on them, would be submitted
to IDA for comment before loans were made (para 4.05);
(d) that a detailed development plan for the West Lake heifer breeding
unit would be submitted to IDA for approval within six months of
loan signature (para 4.06);
(e) that a detailed proposal for the applied investigational work
program for animal disease control would be submitted to IDA
for comment (para 4.08);
(f) that consultations on milk price levels would be held with
IDA from time to time not less frequently than annually
(para 5.03).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) that a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and TRDB,
acceptable to IDA, had been executed (para 3.14);
(b) that at least three group managers for dairy farms had been
recruited (para 4.04).



- 25 -
7.03      A condition of credit disbursement for each group of dairy,farms
would be the recruitment of the group farm manager for that group and that
a contract satisfactory to IDA had been signed between DAFCO and
each of KNCU, NAFCO and TSC (para 4.04).
7.04      The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.0 million on
standard IDA terms.
May 13, 1975






ANNEX 1
Page 1
T&NZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The First and Second Livestock Projects
First Livestock Development Project
1.        The first IDA credit for livestock was made in 1968 for US$1.3
million to cover 65% of a beef ranching development with a total cost of
US$2 million. The project aimed to increase the output of beef, expand the
production of improved breeding stock and demonstrate the advantages of
modern ranching techniques by developing five cattle ranches and providing
technical services and a training program for ranch management. Ranch de-
velopment was satisfactory and early difficulties were overcome. Poor man-
agement on two ranches was rectified by replacing managers with experienced
staff. Severe drought conditions resulted in high cattle mortality on one
ranch and cattle rustling led to unexpected transfers of stock from one
ranch to another. A problem outside NACO's control was the low fixed meat
prices prevailing in Tanzania. Prices though still controlled have been
substantially increased. Generally, this project demonstrated the feasi-
bility of establishing an efficient beef industry in Tanzania.
Second Livestock Development Project
2.        The second IDA credit for livestock was made in 1973 for US$18.5
million to cover 75% of the costs of a broadly based program aimed at in-
creasing beef production in Tanzania through ranch development, meat pro-
cessing and by improving essential infrastructure. The Project included:
(a) development of 11 NACO ranches, four DDC ranchers,
and 22 ujamaa cooperative ranches;
(b) development of three large markets, 10 medium-size
markets, and 20 small markets and the remodelling
of 104 small existing markets;
(c) development of 2,300 km of new stock routes and
2,200 km of existing stock routes and establish-
ment of four new holding grounds and improvement
of 23 existing ones;
(d) reconstruction of one meat processing plant (TPL)
and the construction of two new ones; and
(e) provision of technical services, training and
project preparation.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Ranch development has been much slower than anticipated due to
management problems in the processing of ranch development plans. Only 4
NACO and 2 DDC ranch development plans have been approved. Development of
the NACO ranches is progressing satisfactorily but slowly. Now plans have
been approved for the development of Ujamaa ranches. Of the 13 key staff
only 7 are in post. Recruitment arrangements are unsatisfactory. Manage-
ment has been restructured following the establishment of LIDA and the sit-
uation is expected to improve. The marketing program is also moving ahead
slowly. The meat processing component has suffered from recent inflation.
Original appraisal estimates for this component were US$6 million against
bid quotation of around US$19 million. IDA has agreed to an alteration in
disbursement categories to enable the credit to be used in the financing of
the TPL reconstruction and the construction of the Shinyanga plant.
May 13, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock in the Economy
Geography and Climate
1.        Tanzania, located in East Africa between latitudes 1e and 12°
South and longitudes 29° and 400 West, has a total land area of 91 million
ha. Nearly all of the country, with the exception of a narrow coastal belt
in the west, is over 300 m above sea level and more than half is above
1,000 m. The country can be divided broadly into five agricultural areas:
(a) the eastern coastal belt extending from Kenya in
the north to Mozambique in the south (sisal, rice,
cashew nuts, copra, and cotton);
(b)  the IringafMbeya regions which, together, make up
the Southern Highlands in the southwest (tea, coffee,
maize, tobacco, potatoes, pyrethrum, and livestock);
(c) the central plateau encompassing the Dodoma, Tabora,
and Kigoma regions (groundnuts, maize, palm oil, sun-
flower and castor seed, tobacco, cotton, and live-
stock);
(d) the area adjacent to Lake Victoria, extending from
Bukoba in the west around the lower extremities of
the lake to Mwanza and beyond on the eastern shore
(coffee, bananas, tobacco, tea, coffee, cassava,
and livestock);
(e) the north central area, comprising Arusha and
Kilimanjaro (coffee, potatoes, vegetables, sugar,
sisal, wheat, barley, coffee, pyrethrum, and live-
stock).
2.        Most of the country experiences a dry season from June to October
and a rainy season between November and May. Many areas also have a short
dry season in December. Annual precipitation varies from around 500 mm a
year in Dodoma to 2,000 mm and above in the Bukoba Region and parts of
Mbeya and Iringa. Temperatures vary from a typical tropical pattern in
the eastern coastal belt to a temperate one in the Southern Highlands,
where a considerable expanse of good agricultural land lies at elevations
of 2,000 to 3,000 m.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Livestock in the Agricultural Economj
3.        Agriculture provides a livelihood for some 90% of Tanzania's 13.5
million people, the majority of whom live at subsistence levels. The total
value of agricultural production in 1973 was approximately US$500 million
which represented some 38% of GDP. Cotton, sisal, livestock, coffee, cashew
nuts, tea, groundnuts, pyrethrum, and tobacco are the most important agri-
cultural export products. Total beef offtake amounted to approximately
11% of total agricultural production.
4.        The total value of agricultural exports in 1972 was about US$134
million, of which about US$6 million, or 4.3%, were from processed and live
beef cattle. Because of uncertain market prospects for the three most im-
portant export crops--coffee, cotton, and sisal--diversification of produc-
tion, with emphasis on beef production, is given high priority by Govern-
ment.  Considering that Tanzania has a beef herd of some 10 1/ million head,
the second largest on the African Continent, and extensive range and grass-
lands and equitable climate, the possibilities for expanding beef production
are good.
5.        The local cattle are a mixture of breeds, with Zebu blood pre-
dominating, but overall they might be descriled as a small, unimproved type.
The mature weight of cows ranges from 240 to 280 kg. In the past, various
breeds, including the Shorthorn, Holstein, Devon, Angus, and Boran, have been
used to upgrade the quality and size of the Zebu, but the most successful
cross, from a comercial point of view, appears to be the Zebu and Boran.
Steers have reached mature weights of 480 kg, according to records kept by
NACO at the Kongwa ranch. For the full potential of these crossbred animals
to be realized by the traditional farmer, however, there would have to be a
considerable increase in the general standard of feeding, management, and
disease control.
6.        An estimated 85% of the national herd is distributed throughout
the northern part of the country, with the heaviest concentrations in
Mwanza, Shinyanga, Musoma, and Singida regions and lesser concentrations in
the Dodoma, Arusha, and Kilimanjaro regions. This pattern is largely de-
termined by the distribution of the tsetse fly, which limits cattle raising
in the southeast and west of the country, except for the Mbeya region in
the southwest. Cattle are a multipurpose resource for the traditional
farmer, supplying milk, and providing beef when slaughtered; manure is utilized
as fertilizer for the soil and as fuel; a power source as draft animals, and
as raw materials for craft use. Only a small percentage of the national herd,
1/ Previous estimates had put the national herd at about 13 million head.
A 1972 census, however, indicated that the actual herd size was 9.5
million head. Since there are indications that there was some under-
counting in the census, the figure 10 million is used here; it is
clear, however, that this is a rough estimate.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
about 250,000 cattle, is found in the commercial sector and these are largely
managed by the Government through parastatal corporations or to a smaller
extent by the District Development Corporations.
7.        In the Mwanza, Shinyanga, Musoma, and Singida regions, the Sukuma
people are the main cattle owners, running small herds (average, 20-30
head) to supplement their earnings from cotton and maize, which are the
principal income earners. In the Dodoma, Arusha, and Kilimanjaro regions,
the Gogo and Masai peoples run bigger herds (average, 50 head), which tend
to provide most of the family income. The Sukuma, the Gogo, and the Masai
all graze their cattle on communal lands and since animals are regarded as
capital (i.e., 'wealth"), they prefer, in general, to increase their herd
size rather than to sell animals. This attitude has been an important factor
contributing to the expansion of the national herd from around 3 million head
in 1921 to an estimated 10 million in 1974.
8.        The latter increase in cattle numbers, without an accompanying
improvement in feed supply and management, has resulted in overstocking in
several areas to a dangerous level, which can neither be increased nor even
tolerated indefinitely. Furthermore, increasing pressure to use the better
land for cash cropping is tending not only to reduce available grazing area
but is forcing cattle back to the poorer and less productive areas.
9.        In all areas presently used for cattle raising, considerable scope
exists for improved production. Better better watering facilities, firebreaks,
and additional stock routes, and such facilities are needed. More efficient
utilization of existing dips is also necessary since less than 1 million of
the national herd are now treated regularly, although existing facilities
could accommodate about one-half of the total number. Knowledge of nutrition
and management techniques is inadequate among the majority of traditional
producers, so that there is an urgent need for training throughout the entire
country. Again, in the Southern Highlands lie hundreds of thousands of acres
of good land free of tsetse that could be developed into high-producing
temperate grasslands, based on perennial ryegrass/white clover mixtures,
where beef or milk, or a combination of both, could be produced economically.
The Kitulo and Lukinga areas are examples of this class of land and considerable
investigational work has already been done on the former, under UNDP/FAO
auspices, to demonstrate its potential. The Second IDA Livestock Project is
seeking to improve productivity in all these areas.
10.       As might be expected, the offtake of cattle from the traditional
sector is low, estimated at 10 to 11% per annum. This figure is based on
export numbers of hides and skins, which includes hides from animals that
were dying from disease and other causes, along with those killed for sub-
sistence needs. In 1970, only 318,000 cattle, or 27% of total estimated
offtake, passed through organized market channels. There is wide scope
for increasing offtake to almost double the present figure and for increas-
ing both slaughter weights and carcass quality. Such increases can result



ANNEX 2
Page 4
from improved animal management and a more rational use of existing re-
sources, and from the application of newer techniques and modest physical
inputs.
Livestock Health
11.       The main animal health problems are caused by poor general nutrition,
Trypanosomiasis, East Coast Fever (ECF) and Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD).
12.       The quality of cattle nut:rition in Tanzania varies with the season,
and animals are usually underfed during one or two periods each year, depend-
ing on the amount of rainfall and its distribution.  No attempt is made to
provide supplementary feed (e.g., hay or silage ) during these periods nor
to provide areas of crop or special-purpose pasture. Under severe conditions,
older animals lose weight to the point of emaciation and younger animals
fail to grow. The situation is often aggravated by the added stress of in-
ternal and external parasites, disease, mineral deficiency, and lactation.
13.       The tsetse fly, the vector of Trypanosomiasis in cattle, is widely
distributed throughout the country, infesting approximately two-thirds of
the total land area. Where infestation is severe, cattle raising is vir-
tually excluded (para 6). This disease, however, can be eradicated by
clearing areas that are the habitat of the fly through a combination of
bush felling and insecticide spraying, and its effect on individual ani-
mals can be controlled by treatment with drugs. Either of these two ap-
proaches, or a combination of both, can be used but large-scale on-going
ranching enterprises find it ndore p?ractical and economical (on areas over
80,000 ha) to eradicate the fly from the farmed areas. Much research has
been carried out on this approach in Tanzania and elsewhere in East Africa,
and an effective program, involving ring clearing of bush and aerial and
ground spraying is now in operation under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives. A research project on sterile males is also underway.
14.       Diseases transmitted by blood-sucking ticks constitute the major
cause of mortality and retarded development in cattle. The heaviest losses
are caused by East Coast Fever (Theilevia parva); Anaplosmosis, Babesiosis
and Heart water also occur and cause mortality. In addition the presence
of large number of ticks on animals causes loss of blood which may be con-
siderable, and in itself causes lower production and retards development of
young stock. Indigenous cattle living in areas where ECF is enzootic ac-
quire a certain resistance after surviving initial infection. Even so
losses among calves may run as high as 20%.  In years of heavy rainfall
when the tick zones expand abnormally, losses as high as 90% among susceptible
adult cattle have been observed. The control of these diseases centers largely
on the control of the disease-transmitting ticks through dipping and spraying
with suitable insecticides. Research on more sophisticated methods of disease
control, including immunization, is continuing at the Central Veterinary
Laboratories under an FAO/UNDP project. The Government estimates that 1,300
dips are in operation in the country and that there is a need for a minimum



ANNEX 2
Page 5
of 700 additional dips or spray races. However, existing dips are often
under-utilized. Although dipping is made available free of charge, the major
problem is to convince the cattle owner that regular dipping is necessary to
avoid tick resistance to the insecticides. For the control of East Coast
Fever a routine of twice weekly dippings is a must. ECF control is particularly
important where exotic or grade cattle are concerned, and a very strict dipping
routine must be maintained for such animals, whether on governmelnt farms or in
villages.
15.       Foot-and-Mouth Disease is endemic in most regions and is enhanced
by the movement of trade stock. The disease is seldom reported by cattle
owners due to the weak clinical symptoms in indigenous cattle which have
been regularly exposed to infection, and therefore data on incidence and
the effects of FMD are poor. Massive outbreaks occur when a strange type is
introduced by trade stock, when non-resistant cattle enter a region where
the disease is endemic or when the proportion of susceptible stock in a
herd has grown large. FMD is an important constraint to the increase of
productivity through upgrading of cattle or the introduction of exotic
breeds. Vaccination of improved herds and upgraded cattle introduced in
the village environment is therefore an essential requirement. Currently,
improved cattle in Tanzania must be protected against Types A, 0, SAT T
and II. The high cost of vaccine has so far precluded vaccination of all
cattle, but with the increase of productivity through upgrading of the
national herd and thus an increase of economic risk, the question of ade-
quate control measures becomes more pertinent. The Government currently
has a program to control FMD by vaccination and quarantine, but the pro-
gram has been hampered by insufficiencies of vaccines of the right type and
lack of staff. The Government has indicated that it intends to expand
efforts to control the disease, not only because of its effect in lowering
production, but also because it is an important constraint on the export of
chilled and frozen meat to Europe and elsewhere. Although the Government
has proposed to commence such a control program by establishing a pilot
disease free zone, neither export prospects nor the demonstrated loss of
productivity through FMD would appear to justify such a step at this time.
16.       Other diseases, which in the past have been a problem, such as
Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia, have now been successful-
ly contained through well executed control programs. Approximately 1 mil-
lion animals in the north are vaccinated each year against Rinderpest to
form a barrier against reintroduction from the north. No case of the dis-
ease has been reported in Northern Tanzania since 1965 and it has been over
25 years since it last occurred in the south. Contagious Bovine Pleuropneu-
monia was last diagnosed eight years ago in the north of Masailand but
prompt vaccination and quarantine of the area prevented its spread; at
present this disease does not occur in the country. Almost all the diseases
of livestock usually found in other countries also occur in Tanzania, including
Anthrax, Blackquarter, Bluetongue, Haemorrhagic Septitaemia and Brucellosis
against which vaccination is undertaken and effective. Helminthiasis can be
a problem, but can usually be countered by the use of vermifuges. Liver Fluke
in flooded or marshy areas catuse much ill-health and condemnation of livers.
Among the diseases which cause heavy production losses but rarely kill animals



ANNEX 2
Page 6
are Ephermeral Fever (Three Day Sickness), Infectious Epididymitis and the
Mycobacterial Diseases (Tuberculosis and Jones Disease). Tuberculosis is
prevalent in the Southern Highland and Jones Disease is increasingly becoming
a problem in large herds. It is feasible to think in terms of eradication,
on a large scale at this time, but in large herds, especially dairy-herds,
testing and culling is being adopted.
Technical Services
17.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives is responsible for
production and marketing of livestock, for advisory services, research,
and training within the agricultural sector. Four Divisions of the Ministry
are directly involved--the Division of Agriculture, Food, and Advisory Ser-
vices; the Division of Production Development and Technical Services; the
Division of Administration, Personnel, and Planning; and the Division of
Research, Training, and Farmer Education. The Livestock Development Author-
ity (LIDA) was recently established as a parastatal, and has under its jur-
isdiction other parastatals in the livestock field (Annex 8).
18.       Primary responsibility at the central government level for live-
stock development lies with the Livestock Development Division of the Min-
istry of Agriculture (MIFUGO). This Division is responsible for: (a) in-
suring that animal health programs are feasible and coordinated; (b) the
development and application of improved animal health management techniques;
(c) research programs and the supply of technical information to outside
groups, and (d) the management of selected livestock operations. The divi-
sion consists of four sections: Program Planning, Technical Services, Re-
search and Disease Control, and Operations. Staffing of the Division and of
regional services is shown in Table 1.
19.       At the regional level livestock officers and their staff plan and
implement virtually all livestock programs, notably in the traditional sector,
for there is a high degree of decentralization in all operational matters.
The Director of Livestock exercises technical supervision and control, but
day-to-day management and coordination with other services is the respon-
sibility of the regional authorities. Despite the major constraints facing
the regional field services, notably lack of funds and inadequate staff and
transport, most regional officers are performing well, and staff are generally
hard-working and dedicated. Given a clear policy and a program for action,
these services could develop into an effective livestock extension service
in the future.
20.       Training.  The key role of training at all levels is well recog-
nized by Government and, insofar as projected requirements for technicians
trained to the certificate and diploma levels in general agriculture are
concerned, requirements through 1980 will, in general, be met by existing
training schemes. Table 2 shows existing training programs and their out-
put. The need for more graduates in agriculture at the degree level is



ANNEX 2
Page 7
also recognized and appropriate steps are being taken to increase enrollment
in the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Dar-es-Salaam, Morogoro. Addi-
tional training courses are being organized for range management, and po-
tential ranch and dairy farm managers are being sent overseas for practical
and theoretical training, primarily to Australia and New Zealand. Veterin-
arians are trained at the University of Nairobi.
21.       A Research and Training Institute has recently been established
at Mbeya with assistance from the Nordic Technical Assistance Program. The
capacity of the Institute is 500 students at full development (expected in
1976). Two-year certificate courses in Agriculture, Animal Health and
Ag/Home Economics will be conducted with 400 entrants of which 100 are ex-
pected to be female students. The course will emphasize practical training
through participation in daily operation of the Institute Farm and in the
applied dairy and crop research being undertaken as part of the curriculum.
After 1-2 years in the field approximiately 100 students are expected to re-
turn for 1-year diploma courses in Crop Husbandry, Animal Health and Dairy
Husbandry.
22.       Livestock Research.  In general, the situation with respect to
research is not as satisfactory as it is with training. The quality of
veterinary research in Tanzania is relatively good as proven by the effective-
ness of the dipping program and the tsetse control program. However, there
is a definite gap in production-oriented research, and a great deal more needs
to be done in such basic fields as branch and weed control, water reticulation,
fencing, pasture utilization, supplementary feeding, fertilization and animal
management. All research programs in the livestock field must be anproved
by the National Scientific Research Council, whose functions are: (a) to
coordinate all national research; (b) to advise government regarding
priorities, the allocation of funds, research policies and scientific
standards; (c) to produce documentation and disseminate information; and
(d) to collaborate with national and outside organizations on all matters
pertaining to research.
23.       Within the Livestock Development Division, research programs are
handled by the Research and Disease Control Section. Implementation is
divided into two main groupings; viz: Animal Disease Research and Animal
Production Research. Animal Disease Research is organized with the Central
Veterinary Laboratories, Temeke as the central research unit supported by
five Veterinary Investigation Centers located in Arusha, Miwanza, Tabora,
Mfpwapwa and Iringa which in turn are supported by forty-two Veterinary In-
vestigation Stations, comprising Dip-Testing Centers, Livestock Multiplica-
tion Units and Livestock Research Centers. The Central Veterinary Labora-
tories, Temeke, consists of a group of well-equipped units for Bacteriology,
Chemistry, Helminthology, Protozoology, Pathology and Virology. A special
unit for typing of Foot and Mouth virus will be constructed as part of the
IDA-financed Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 382-TA) with
assistance from the UNDP. At present this laboratory suffers from a short-
age of staff and has encountered difficulties in expanding its services to



ANNEX 2
Page 8
the regions, which in turn work under the constraint of insufficient budget
allocations. Animal Production Research is carried out with the Mpwapwa
Animal Production Research Institute as the central research unit and is
concerned with research on animal nutrition, including forage and pastures,
reproduction and progeny testing. This work is supported by three Livestock
Research Centers at Iwambi (Mbeya), Sao Hill (Iringa), Mabuki (Mwanza),
West Kilimanjaro and Mivumoni (Tanga). It is anticipated that the recently
established Faculty of Agriculture, University of Dar-es-Salaam at Morogoro
as well as the Training Institute at Mbeya will contribute useful research.
Government Policy Towards Livestock Development
24.       Government has gone to considerable lengths to define constraints
in the livestock industry and has indicated its determination to do every-
thing possible to promote expansion both of beef and dairy products (Annex
4). It has noted with concern the problem of overstocking in many areas and
has provided good support for the Tsetse Control Unit, whose main responsi-
bilities are to control the fly and undertake construction of roads and
firebreaks for access and burn protection, and dams for water storage and
reticulation. In order to improve the social amenities of the traditional
producer and to provide a basis for more effective extension of improved
management practices, Government is pushing ahead as quickly as possible
with the concept of Ujamaa, which is explained in greater detail in Annex 3.
Government believes that, given better social services, suitable land,
modest physical inputs, technology, and a rational marketing system, the
traditional sector is capable of significantly increasing production to
meet the needs of both the ecpanding internal and potential export markets.
25.       In the next Five Year-Plan (expected to be completed shortly),
the highest priority will be placed on manpower development. Research on
disease and animal production, including pasture and fodder production, is
also a priority area. The draft plan also emphasizes the need for better
coordination and direction in the implementation of on-going and new pro-
jects, and the creation of LIDA reflects the Government's concern in this
regard.
May 13, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staffing of HQ and Regional Services (October 1974)
*    ,                                             Assistant          Regional                                District *
Regional livestock    Senior Field         Field Officer               Field Officer    Veterinary           Veterinary           Veterinary
Region                    Dev. Officer             Officer          I      II      III          I        II         officer             Officer             Officer
Arusha                          1                    1                   10       2           12       48             1                 1                    2
Coast                          1                                 1        3       2            5       !2            1
Dar-es-Salaam(incl].HQ)        1                                                                                     1                 12                ,  1
Dodoma                         1                                          4       4            4       39            1
Kigoma                         1                     1           1        1       2            1       26
Kilimanjaro                    1                                          6       4            6       20            1                  1
Iringa                         1                                          4       2            3       33            1                                      1
Lindi                           1                    1           1        1       2            2       16
Mara                            1                                 2       1       3            5       29             1                                      1
Mbeya                           1                                 2        5                   6       21             1                                      1
Morogoro                        1                                 1        5      2            2       24             1
Mtwara                          1                                         1       2            1       16             1
Mwanza                           1                                          5                    4      28             1                  1                   1
Rukwa                          1                                          1       2            2       15            1                                      1
Ruvwna                         1                                          2                    2       17
Singida                        1                                          2       2            3       28             1
Shinyana                       1                                  2       4       4             l      32             1
Tabora                         1                     1                    5       1            1       31
Tanga                          1                                  2       5       2            4       32            1                                       1
West Lake                       1                    1            2        5                    2      20
Central Veterinary Lab.                                         1        1       2           30        2                               6
Multiplication Units
Livestock and Veterin-
ary Investigation Centers                                                                                                             12
Teachers in Training In-
stitutes (MATIs)                                                                                                                        5
On secondment to
parastatals                                                                                                                             9
Meat Inspection at TPL                                                                                                                  2
Post graduate traini iv 
Coorses                                                                                                                                14
Total:          20                     5          15       71      38          100      489                              43                    9
Compiled on information Ministry of Agriculture, October 1974.
* Regional Veterinary Officers and District Veterinary Officers may
be also Regional and District Livestock Development Officers.
February 5, 1975



TANZANIA
D/IRY DEVELOPMwENT PROJECT
TRAINING OF PERSONNEL FOR LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMEN
Level of training.   Qualifications   Designation   Duration of training   Specialisation    Institute and location   Annual turn-out            Present no. in
required                              _____             _                  _                              ___                service.
Certificate          Form 4            AFO            2-years pre-servive    Veterinary          Year I: Mpwapwa MATI           80                   700
(O level)         Assistant                                                     II: Morogoro MATI
Field                                 Poultry            Morogoro MATI                  12
Officer
Dairy Husbandry   Tengeru MATIT,Arusha           4o
Diploma              Form 6            FO             1-year in-service       Animal Production Mpwapwa MATI                    4
(A level)         Field          1-year in-service       Ranch Management Mkata                            12
Officer       .3-year pre-service     Ranch Managament  Egerton,Kenya                    6
3-year pre-service      Dairy Technology  Egerton,Kenrya                   2
3-year pre-service      Animal Science    Egerton,Kenya                  12                    235
Degree               Form 6.          VO              4-year pre-service      Bach. Vet. Scien. University of Nairobi           15                    81
(A level)        Veterinary
Officer
AO             3-year pre-service      B.Sc.(Agric)       Faculty of Agriculture         So                     21
Agricultural                                              Morogoro(Univ.of DSM)
Officer                                 B.Sc.(Agric)
Animal Production                                  ? (first degrees in 1977)
Students studying abroad.
Veterinary degree: 10
Animal Husbandry:   17                                                                                                    Total personnel:  1037
Dairy Husbandry       2
Dairy Technology     1
*Ministry of Agriculture  nformation, October, 1974.
February 5, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ujamaa Villages and Dairy Development
Ujamaa Development and Villagization
1.        Tanzania's socialist development policy is directed towards simul-
taneously achieving rapid economic growth and promoting an equalitarian
society. Perhaps one of the most important aspects of this policy is the
increasing emphasis on agriculture and rural development, and in recent years
the rural development strategy has focussed on the development of Ujamaa
villages throughout the country. The immediate objectives are social and
political: to foster a sense of self-reliance through self-help, to achieve
equality of income, and to raise rural incomes in order to close the rural/urban
gap and slow the pace of migration to the major towns. The final goal is the
development of cooperative production by the Ujamaa community, with communal
labor and communal ownership of land. Wnen an Ujamaa village has developed
to a certain stage, it can be registered with the Registrar of Cooperatives
as a full multi-purpose cooperative society. Thus, the Ujamaa village has
been seen as a vehicle for providing economies of scale in delivering improved
agricultural techniques, inputs and social services, and as a focus for devel-
oping a productive and socialist society in rural areas.
2.        Ujamaa villages are often new settlements, formed by a group of
families from another part of the country, as part of an effort to develop
sparsely populated and relatively unproductive areas. Ujamaa villages may
also be formed when a group of families decides to join together as an Ujamaa
cooperative, pooling financial resources, land and labor for at least part of
their activities. Other residents of the same area may join the Ujamaa as
it develops. Ujamaa villages vary significantly at different stages of
development and according to the resources and circumstances of their members.
Differing degrees of cooperative production exist ranging from a very limited
communal venture, such as a small area of coffee, tobacco or cotton which all
members help to cultivate, while most energies are devoted to individual food
crop production, to a fully collective organization of production where all
land and labor are shared. Ujamaa villages receive financial assistance in
the form of grants from the Regional Development Funds, and are eligible to
borrow money, primarily from the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) when
they have a workable constitution and are registered as an Agricultural
Association. An Ujamaa village registered as a full cooperative may also be
eligible for commercial credit.
3.        The Prime Minister's Office is responsible for the development of
Ujamaa villages. A Rural Development Division works closely with TANU (the



ANNEX 3
Page 2
political party organization) and other executive ministries, and is respon-
sible for continuous evaluation of Ujamaa operations. The Ministry of
Agriculture and other ministries provide technical support. With the decen-
tralization of administration, regional and district authorities have assumed
an increasingly active role in providing assistance to Ujamaa villages.
4.        Since 1971, there has been increasing emphasis on a variant of
the Ujamaa movement, known as villagization. The focus of this program is
on the resettlement of the rural piopulation which is traditionally relatively
dispersed in many regions of the country, into what are known as "planned"
or "development" villages of between one and three thousand people. The
specific objectives of this program are to concentrate the population so
that the government can more readily provide basic social and economic ser-
vices - notably water, schools, dispensaries and extension - to facilitate
mobilization of the population, and, to some extent, to promote national
security. In the long term, formation of these villages is designed to
encourage the development of commtnal agricultural production as well as
modern, commercial marketing. It is anticipated that the "planned" villages
will ultimately become full Ujamaa villages in the sense that they will be
cooperative societies. However, the villagization program as it is presently
conceived does not rely on obligatory communal production at least in the
initial phase. There is no inherent conflict between the two programs. In
effect villagization constitutes the initial phase in the theoretical development
of an Ujamaa village. There is, however, a significant difference in emphasis
as the policy has been applied, and it is recognized that the organization of
collective production is likely to take some time, and that until such time has
elapsed most agricultural activity will continue to be on an individual basis.
5.        Within the past year, the pace of villagization has accelerated
rapidly in many regions of Tanzania, and a significant proportion of the
rural population has moved from their farms and hamlets into "development
villages", which range in size between one and three thousand people. The
impetus behind this massive movement is not entirely clear, but it appears
that it was organized and encouraged primarily by local (district level and
below) political leaders, who used either persuasive techniques, holding
out the promise of improved services or, in some instances, a show of force
to encourage people to move to new locations. Estimates of the number of
people ipvolved vary widely, but press and official reports suggest that an
estimate of three million people affected by the program in the past year
is quite conservative.
6.        The implications of these developments for future economic, social
and political development are significant. In the short term, a serious drop
in agricultural production seems probable for a variety of reasons. Because
of insufficient planning and premature movement of people, many new villages
are located at poor sites taking into account agricultural potential and
relationship to other settlements. Many new villages lack basic facilities.
Land use patterns often were not thought through before the new arrivals
settled there. While these problems are sorted out, conditions for preparing



ANNEX 3
Page 3
fields for cultivation will be difficult and much labor is likely to be
diverted from farming to constructing new houses. It is not clear that
necessary inputs will be available to the new settlements. In the longer
term perspective, these problems should be resolved, whether by reorganiza-
tion or relocation of villages. The more fundamental issues would then
relate to a major reorganization of farming and animal husbandry patterns
to suit an entirely different form of settlement.  In the next few years,
the Government should focus on completing basic indispensable planning for
new villages where it was inadequate, and resources, human and financial,
should be concentrated on resolving the problems of agricultural production
in the villages. Pressures to provide services are likely to be significant,
in part because they were often promised to the population, but also because
their absence will become increasingly apparent in the larger new communities.
If a great proportion of available resources go for schools, village wells,
roads, dispensaries, etc., it may hamper the development of the new villages
into productive and viable communities. If this does not occur, people may
well move back to where they came from, or seek their fortune in the cities.
Ujamaa Dairy Development
7.        In parts of Tanzania where there is good natural potential (rainfall,
altitude) a tradition of dairy husbandry has developed. This is most signif-
icant in the Kilimanjaro area, but Mara, West Lake, Nbeya and Iringa also
have significant numbers of small producers. Most dairy production is from
traditional cattle, and is an adjunct of the traditional herd. Milk produc-
tion is low, and it is unlikely that it can increase significantly without
improved stock (upgrading animals) and much better management and animal health
practices. Because of the nature of the village economy, this would almost
certainly require a major expansion and reorientation of extension services to
assist village producers, and substantial training of farmers. However, the
long-term potential for a substantial increased production in the traditional
sector is excellent (Annex 4).
8.        The Government has placed a high priority on increasing dairy
production, both for social (primarily nutritional) and economic reasons,
and as part of its strategy is seeking to promote dairy development in
Ujamaa villages. There is no clear tradition of collective or communal
organization for dairy husbandry, and this program therefore requires both
new techniques and entirely new forms of organization, which have not yet
been developed on a significant scale or in adequate detail. In some regions
the livestock officers, often assisted by a dairy development officer, have
sought to promote dairy development in Ujamaa villages, and in some cases
funds have been provided for dairy units from the Regional Development Funds.
TRDB and its predecessors have also made some loans for Ujamaa cairy ventures.
In most cases it is much too early to assess how effective such assistance
has been, but in villages where some evaluation is possible, there is a great
range of experience, from successful operation of medium-scale dairy units
to utter disaster, where all cattle died immediately and an elaborate milking
parlor stands totally unused. In at least one instance a missionary working



ANNEX 3
Page 4
with an Ujamaa village has developed a successful dairy unit in an Ujamaa
village. In Komuge, near Musoma, villagers have put their individual cows
together into a "communal improvement herd", and share facilities, including
dipping tank, a pasture and fodder program, improved bulls, and training.
9.        If there is to be significant development of dairy in Ujamaa vil-
lages in future, the first prerequisite is to develop farming systems that
are appropriate for small-scale dairies in a traditional/Ujamaa setting,
and that are adapted to different geographic conditions. As yet there are
no clear models for Ujamaa dairy development. The second requirement is
to develop the technical support, probably at the regional level, that
would be required (supply of inputs, extension, training). Third, credit
mechanisms must be assured. Finally, it seems likely that some upgrading
of local cattle will be essential before villages can produce a signifi-
cant amount of milk. In planning a Ujamaa dairy program, the implications
of the villagization program should be taken into account, both in terms of
the size of villages (and hence markets) and organization of production.
In elaborating a strategy for Ujamaa dairy development, one objective should
be to complement dairy development among traditional individual producers,
since the two models (individual and collective dairy production) are
complementary and even contiguous.
Project Ujamaa Dairy Component
10.       The funds included for Ujamaa dairy development under the proposed
Project would finance a small program to develop Ujamaa dairy units of about
20 cows each in 50 villages. These villages have not yet been selected, but
would be concentrated in those regions which show the best potential for
dairy development. The program would be a pilot effort, and its most im-
portant aspect would be the development of institutions and techniques that
would prepare for a more extensive and comprehensive future project to de-
velop dairy at village level, both through Ujamaa cooperatives, and on an
individual or cooperative basis.
11.       TRDB would have the principal responsibility for organizing the
Ujamaa dairy program, and for planning for future development activities.
A special unit would be formed within TRDB that would in the first instance
determine criteria for selection of Ujamaa villages, then prepare loan
materials, and finally supervise the initial phase of establishing the
dairy units. The unit would have sufficient technical expertise to examine
alternative models for dairy husbandry, to lay down requirements for animal
health and feeding for each region, and to adapt those programs as experi-
ence warrants. In addition to direct supervision of Ujamaa dairy loans
under the present project, the unit would prepare a program for future de-
velopment. This would require extenisive data collection on existing village
dairy activities, an analysis of market conditions, studies of disease
problems and other technical constraints to further development, and an
evaluation of requirements for technical support through extension services
and financial support through loans and even grants.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       The Regional Livestock officers would share responsibility for
implementing the Ujamaa dairy component. They would be responsible for
furnishing day-to-day technical support in the field, and for supervising
the establishment of dairy units. The program should furnish an opportunity
to evaluate the effectiveness of current services at regional and district
levels, and to prepare a program for strengthening them in future as proves
necessary.
13.       To the extent possible, the DAFCO dairy farms developed under the
Project would also provide assistance to Ujamaa dairy units, particularly
on technical matters such as animal health regimes and feeding programs,
but also in sharing equipment and machinery where excess capacity exists.
It might prove feasible to organize practical training for Ujamaa dairy
farmers on the farms, and this possibility should be explored.
14.       It is anticipated that most milk produced by the Ujamaa dairy
units in this first phase program would be consumed in the village. Each
village would determine its own arrangements for disposing of milk; in some
instances it might be distributed in return for labor, while in others it
might be sold for cash or kind within the village or to other villages nearby.
Where the Ujamaa dairy was located near a major town or processing facility,
the village might decide to sell some or all of its milk to commercial
processors or vendors. This first project should support a dairy unit where
that was the sole commercial venture of a village only in exceptional circum-
stances, because of the technical undertainties involved, and the high risk
involved in dairy production under present conditions. The dairy unit would
thus be one of several communal ventures for each of the Ujamaa villages
selected and revenue from milk sales would not be essential to service the
loan incurred to set up the dairy enterprise.
15.       Investment in this first phase would be relatively limited, and
would be largely in upgraded (first cross) dairy heifers. Other inputs
would include some water development and fencing, pasture development and
fodder production, and very simple buildings and equipment (milking shed,
calf pen) (Annex 9, Tables 40 and 43).
February 13, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Tanzanian Dairy Industry
Background
1.        Tanzania's Dairy Industry is at present relatively under-developed.
Dairy farming has developed in the past from two quite separate origins.
"Modern," commercial dairy farming was introduced during the colonial era,
with exotic stock imported from Europe, and essentially European dairy farm-
ing techniques; these farmers were concentrated in the highland areas with
high rainfall, around the centers of colonial settlement. The second pole
of development is the strong tradition of livestock in Tanzania, and milk
has long been an important element of both cattle and goat husbandry. There
has in the past been no concerted effort to develop dairy in Tanzania, and
milk production, particularly from the commercial producers, has declined
in recent years, while the vast potential of the traditional herd has not
been exploited. In view of the rapidly growing demand for dairy products,
the Government has for over a decade indicated that it placed a high priority
on developing an indigenous dairy industry. However, it is only recently
that a basic investment program has been proposed, and the proposed Project
would represent the first major attempt to define and implement a development
strategy for dairy.
2.        There are strong arguments that favor a policy to promote the
development of dairy in Tanzania. Geographic conditions in many parts of the
country are suitable for dairy, which requires relatively high rainfall,
well distributed throughout the year, and equitable climate. The strong
livestock husbandry tradition also favors dairy development, since a large
part of the population owns and has worked with cattle. Dairy development
is a logical development from a traditional livestock industry, calling for
more intensive and sophisticated farming techniques, while offering a good
source of income. The rapid growth of demand for dairy products, the result
of rapid urbanization in a growing number of centers, also offers a major
incentive for dairy development.
3.        Dairy development has been limited in the past by two major factors:
the long distances between the areas most suited to dairying and the major
urban markets, which are concentrated along the Indian Ocean Coast, and by
the absence of effective policies to stimulate dairy development. Kenya
developed a thriving dairy industry during the colonial era, while such
development was less marked in Tanzania, despite similarities in environment.
The departure of expatriate and Asian farmers in recent years has resulted in
a decline in production, largely because dairy techniques were not sufficiently
adapted to Tanzanian conditions nor promulgated or extended beyond a relatively
isolated group of farmers.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Prospects for developing a viable dairy industry in Tanzania are
good. The strategy for promoting that development should concentrate on two
separate objectives: First, to supply milk to the growing urban centers and
thus to reduce import requirements for dairy products; in the short term, the
commercial sector offers the best prospects for achieving rapid increases
in milk production, although in the longer term, small producers should also
be able to supply milk to cities and towns. The second objective should be
the development of a rural dairy industry, based on the traditional herd.
This would not only offer a means of providing small farmers with a steady
source of cash income, but would also supplement rural diets, providing a
significant improvement in nutrition for some of the poorest segments of the
population.
The Existing Dairy Industry
5.        Milk is produced in Tanzania by several different types of farmers,
under dissimilar conditions. Because the problems faced by these separate
groups vary markedly, policies and programs for dairy development should
address the distinct problems of each group. Four separate categories might
be defined: (a) commercial dairy farms; (b) traditional cattle owners;
(c) traditional dairy producers, oriented to milk production for cash; and
(d) Ujamaa dairy farms.
6.        Commercial Dairy Farms - in some parts of Tanzania, a modern, commer-
cial dairy industry has developed. These dairy farms were generally developed
by private farmers, but many are now run by parastatal corporations. Approx-
imately one half of the cattld in Tanzania that are categorized as exotic,
dairy animals (estimated total about 15,000) are on these farms, which are
concentrated in the Arusha region and around Dar-es-Salaam, with a few in the
Southern Highlands. All these farms are oriented to the commercial sector,
and supply milk to the large dairies at Dar-es-Salaam and Arusha; supplies
to the large dairies were estimated at 5.5 million liters in 1973. As European
and Asian farmers have left Tanzania, many farms have been taken over by the
Government, which has developed a few dairy units on cattle ranches also.
Parastatal corporations, notably NARCO (Ngerengere, Kitulo, West Kilimanjaro),
TSC and District Development Corporations manage many of these farms. In
addition, KILIMO operates combined breeding and dairy operations at Mpwapwa,
Tanga, West Kilimanjaro, and Mbeya, and prison farms, mission stations, and
schools and training institutes often have small dairy herds run on modern,
commercial lines. Some private dairy farmers continue to produce milk, notably
in the Iringa area. Commercial dairy farms have experienced many problems in
recent years, and there has been a significant decline in production (Annex 5).
This can be explained in part by the departure of expatriate owners and
managers, but an additional factor has been the low level of milk prices both
in Dar-es-Salaam and in Arusha, which caused some farmers to go out of business.
Many of the parastatals now operate at a clear loss. Farms have deteriorated,
both in terms of physical assets (buildings, machinery, pastures) and animals,
which are often producing at levels well below their genetic capacity. If
steps are not taken in the near future to improve management on these farms



ANNEX 4
Page 3
and to provide needed investment, these farms will certainly decline still
further, and the benefits both of existing facilities and dairy herds built
up over a long period, and long experience with dairy farming under Tanzanian
conditions will be lost.
7.        Traditional cattle farmers - dairy farming may be viewed as one
aspect of the traditional livestock industry, as milk is one important by-
product of the traditional cattle herd. Milk not required for calves is
consumed by villagers, constituting an important part of their diet,; when
there is a surplus, this is sold within the village or nearby. Occasionally,
surpluses are sold commercially, but this is the exception rather than the
rule, largely because the commercial dairies are not located where there are
important concentrations of cattle. Although this sector produces by far the
largest volume of milk of the four (an estimated 475 million liters a year -
Annex 5, Table 1), there are no accurate figures on total production, since
estimates are based simply on extrapolation from the general data on national
herd size, proportion of cows, and average milk yields. Average yields per
lactation are estimated at 300 liters; of this, probably 150 liters is consumed
by calves and 150 liters is milked and used by humans. Table 1 shows the
estimated cattle population by region, according to the 1972 livestock census,
which gives some indication of how cattle are distributed, and where the
recions of best potential lie. There is a wide range in herd size according
to region; in addition, traditional cattle producers range from nomadic
pecples to settled farmers with small herds.  Goat milk is also important
for traditional producers; most is consumed at the subsistence level (Table 2).
8.        Traditional dairy producers - in some areas, notably on slopes of
Mt. Kilimanjaro and Mt. Meru and in Mara, a tradition of dairy production by
small African farmers, oriented to the commercial sector and producing milk as
a source of cash income has developed. This development was stimulated in some
areas by the proximity of markets, and by an extension of technology and exotic
dairy animals from commercial dairy farmers; most farmers are smallholders,
keeping a few cows and deriving an important source of income from milk sales
to commercial dairies. Dairy farming techniques may be quite sophisticated,
notably in the Kilimanjaro area where a system of stall-feeding cattle in con-
junction with banana cultivation has evolved; in recent years, this system of
dairy production has not developed very rapidly in the area, largely because
of competing pressure on land for cash crops, notably for coffee. In other
areas, farmers near cities and towns keep a few cows, perhaps with some exotic
blood, and they or middlemen sell milk in the towns from bicycles. Finally,
traditional cattle farmers in some major cattle areas sell milk to rural
processing facilities or to entrepreneurs. Until recently, farmers in the
Mara region sold milk to small-scale producers of ghee, who processed milk
and returned skim milk to farmers (Annex 6). Similar processing facilities
have developed around Tabora.
9.        Ujamaa dairy farms - quite recently, the Government has embarked
on a program to promote dairy farming in Ujamaa villages. To date, this has
met with mixed success, and much planning will be required before this can



ANNEX 4
Page 4
be extended on a large scale. The development of dairy farms in the Ujamaa
villages is discussed in more detail in Annex 3.
Government Assistance for Dairy Development
10.       Development programs specifically oriented to dairy farmers have
been limited in the past. Disease control programs and the general live-
stock and veterinary extension services have directed limited attention to
dairy. In some regions, Dairy Development advisors have been introduced,
but without staff, funds or a program they have not been able to achieve
significant results. The principal objective has been to upgrade dairy
animals, both through livestock multiplication units and bull centers run
by Ministry of Agriculture and through an artificial insemination (AI) program.
Dramatic increases in milk production can be achieved in the first generation
of cross-breeding the Tanzanian Zebu to exotic dairy cattle: from 300 to 1,100
liters per cow per annum, and in some areas, the farmers' response to such
programs has been enthusiastic. The scope and quality of the programs could,
however, be improved.
11.       An important Al program was launched in 1974 with assistance from
Swedish Aid (SIDA). The objective of the program is to increase the number
of upgraded dairy cows from 15,000 to 40,000 over nine years, and the aim is
to inseminate 72,000 cows a year by 1977/78. The SIDA program will concentrate
on two main activities: a National Artificial Insemination Centre (NAIC) and
a training program for field inseminators. The NAIC center will be built near
Arusha, and will be headed by a Tanzanian veterinarian assisted by three ex-
patriate veterinarians. It will help plan and implement all Al programs in
Tanzania, collect data, and help carry out local AI programs; it will also
produce, import, store and distribute semen, diluter, and the equipment needed
for AI work throughout the country. Semen production at the Mpwapwa center
will be phased out and replaced by semen produced at the new West Lake bull
center. The NAIC will also work in conjunction with a national breeding
committee to plan and carry out a long range program for the importation of
bulls and semen for both milk and beef production, including progeny testing
of bulls. The training program will provide for the training of about 90
inseminators each year; the trainees would receive a one-year general course
in animal husbandry, followed by a three-month training period at the NAIC
center and nine months of field work. In addition, an intensive information
campaign would be launched in an effort to introduce improved methods of
livestock care to the smallholder cattle owners. The total cost of the
program is estimated at Tsh 21 million, 60% of which will be financed by
SIDA and the remainder by Tanzania.
Problems and Constraints
12.       The major constraints and problems facing all dairy producers in
Tanzania may be summarized briefly as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a) Geography - long distances separate high potential areas from
the major markets, particularly those on the Coast. Improved
communications, the development of processing facilities equipped
to preserve milk (cheese, butter, ghee) and to manufacture milk
products (powder, tins) in high potential areas, and the rapid
growth of towns, and thus commercial markets, throughout Tanzania
promise to diminish this problem in future.
(b) Poor road networks - even where potential markets exist, poor
rural road networks hinder collection of milk, particularly
during the rainy season when farmers have milk surpluses.
Feeder road projects could stimulate dairy development.
(c) Poorly developed collection networks - transport of milk to
dairies has depended on farmers' initiative, resulting in
haphazard supplies and adulterated or spoiled milk being sold
in towns.
(d) Technical constraints - upgrading of Zebu cattle, improvement
of pastures, and preservation of green fodder for the dry season
are essential if cattle are to produce higher milk yields, evenly
distributed throughout the year.
Ce) Animal disease - dairy cattle, partly because of their exotic
blood, are particularly susceptible to the disease problems which
face all cattle in Tanzania (see Annex 2). The presence of tsetse
flies effectively prohibits dairy farming in many areas of Tanzania,
and FMD and ECF cause severe economic losses on dairy farms.
Mastitis is a further common hazard for dairy farmers. Maintenance
of a strict animal healthi regime, on commercial farms or in villages,
is an essential prerequisite for successful dairy development.
(f) Price controls - price controls on milk and compulsory marketing
orders have discouraged dairy development in some areas in the
past.
(g) Extension services - have limited staff and experience with dairy,
and there is no clear program now for dairy extension work.
(h) Technical skills - dairy farming is a demanding activity requiring
special skills and excellent management, to maintain animal health,
to provide adequate feeding, to maintain proper hygience, and to
make money. Such skills are in short supply among Tanzanian
farmers.
(i) Research - little applied research has been done to develop dairy
farming systems appropriate for Tanzania, and applicable to
different regions. Particular areas requiring investigation are
pasture development, fodder conservation, and animal nutrition.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Strategy for Dairy Development in Tanzania
13.       The strategy for dairy development must endeavor to resolve or
surmount the problems outlined in para 12 above. This should involve both
the rehabilitation and improvement of large-scale dairy farming, as an effi-
cient way to produce milk for the cities, and the development of the potential
for dairy production in the vast traditional sector. The strategy should
include the following key elements:
(a) Pricing policy - price levels will assume paramount importance as
commercial dairying and the commercial market expands. If price
levels are fixed by Government, they must be set at levels that
will encourage dairy production (Annex 5).
(b) Processing plants - although only a very small proportion of milk
is processed at present, milk processing will become increasingly
important as both towns and dairy production expand. Location
of plants with appropriate capacity will be an important factor
in stimulating dairy production and satisfying demand (e.g. at
Kitulo). Collection systems should be developed concurrently
with plants.
(c) Regional distribution - dairy development should be concentrated in
regions with high potential, notably the Kilimanjaro-Arusha area,
Mara and West Lake, and the Southern Highlands. Commercial dairy
farms may be feasible in other areas, notably Tanga, Dar-es-Salaam,
and possibly Dodoma, if irrigation were economically viable, but
smallholder production should focus on areas with an existing cattle
population, tradition of livestock husbandry, and high rainfall.
(d) Government services - dairy specialists among extension workers
must be trained, and provided with adequate financial and logistic
support. Supplies of essential inputs, notably drugs and adequate
credit must be assured. Farmer training in dairy skills could be
provided through extension or at rural training centers. The AI
scheme should be supported, and upgraded heifers produced for sale
to traditional producers.
(e) 'esearch - should be supported and expanded on a continuing basis
to develop the necessary technical basis for development of dairy.
14.       Government programs in the field of dairy development should take into
account the respective requirements of the four groups described above in paras
6-9. This is particularly important because dairy development is likely to take
place in quite a different pattern for each of these groups in the immediate
future, and policies and programs should take their differences into account.
15.       Commercial dairy farms - the basic strategy for these farms should be
one of the rehabilitation, in some cases to the extent of being a rescue oper-
ation. The most essential need is for excellent management. This would involve



ANNEX 4
Page 7
training Tanzanian managers in dairy farming techniques, developing effective
management systems adapted to Tanzanian circumstances, and developing of an
institutional framework which would permit these farms to run efficiently and
profitably. The commercial dairy farms would by definition be oriented to the
commercial sector and major processing plants, and would be concentrated near
them. These farms should be perceived as having a three-fold purpose: first,
to supply milk to the major urban centers where the rising demand for dairy
products has necessitated very substantial imports of dairy products from outside
Tanzania (Annex 5), second, as a training center for Tanzanian managers, and
third, as a nucleus for development of technology for the rest of the dairy
industry. Sophisticated technology would be applied on these farms, since the
objective would be to produce the most milk possible and to provide revenue for
the parastatal organizations which now dominate the sector.
16.       Traditional cattle farmers - the expansion of dairy production among
traditional cattle farmers offers perhaps the best prospect in the long term for
absolute increases in the volume of milk production. In the short term, however,
it would appear premature to seek to develop dairy activities here in isolation.
It would also seem to be unwise to attempt to rely too heavily on these tradi-
tional producers to supply the needs of the urban markets until significant
increases in levels of production produce a clear surplus of milk that can be
sold. Therefore, the effort to increase milk production should be perceived as
a part of the overall program for livestock development among traditional prod-
ucers. As these programs help farmers to achieve better disease control and
improved herd management, milk production will also increase. At that time,
consideration should be given to improving collection services and developing
rural processing centers, particularly those that might preserve milk surpluses
during the wet season for use during the dry months (cheese, ghee, for example).
It should be recognized that while even small increases in milk production will
produce a substantial increase in total national figures, they will not for some
time resolve the problem of serious milk deficits in the cities.
17.       Traditional commercial producers - major emphasis should be placed
on assistance to traditional commercial producers who are already interested
in and to some extent, skilled in dairy husbandry. This should concentrate
on regions with a tradition of commercial dairying and where processing
facilities exist or are planned: notably, Arusha, Mara and Mbeya. The im-
provement of extension services is an essential prerequisite. The program
should focus on improved management of existing herds, which in itself would
substantially increase milk yields and on AI and introduction of grade heifers.
Fodder conservation could be introduced to small farmers with relatively
limited investment. As levels of production increase, so also will the
requirements for stringent animal health care and hygiene. Adequate price
levels and assured supplies of essential inputs would encourage dairy develop-
ment in this sector. The development of collection systems should be geared
primarily to this category of producers.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
18.       UJamaa Dairy Development (Annex 3) - very little is known at this
time about the possibilities for dairy development in Ujamaa villages. The
rapid pace of villagization could dramatically alter market patterns, possi-
bly extending the "commercial" (i.e. cash) milk market to many of the new
!'development" villages. Development of small dairy units to serve these
-villages could offer an effective means of introducing communal dairy ven-
tures at a commercial level. As regards Government policies, the comments
in paras. 13, 17 and 18 above would also apply here, depending on the loca-
tion, economy and level of development of the village.
Conclusion
19.       The proposed Project would represent a first stage of a long-term
program to develop dairy in Tanzania. It would concentrate on the rehabili-
tation and extension of commercial dairy farms. This would appear to be the
piost effective way to develop a technical and managerial base for future
dairy development, and to achieve the Government's objective of reducing
imoports of dairy products.  Medium to large-scale dairy farms offer consid-
erable economies of scale, and would lend themselves to immediate development,
particuilarly where farms and dairy herds already exist. The Project would
also seek to improve collection services and to extend and modernize processing
facilities in Dar-es-Salaam and Arusha. The collection system should stimulate
dairy production by small producers in these areas, and increase supplies of
milk at the dairies. The Project would include development of a heifer breed-
ing unit that would produce about 1,800 upgraded dairy heifers a year. These
would be sold to small-scale producers for dairy units. An important aspect
of the Project would be a substantial technical assistance program largely
directed to the Project's commercial and Ujamaa dairy programs, and to pre-
paration of a long-term strategy and program for dairy development among
small, traditional producers (including Ujamaa villages and individual farmers).
Thus, while this first Project would be directed primarily to supplying milk
to the urban markets from government dairy farms, it would prepare the tech-
nical and managerial basis necessary for a Second Project concentrating on
village dairy development.
February 7, 1975






M Yll 3,.   1
Table 1
TA UIZANIA
DAIRY DEVELPMENT PfROJECT
Estimated Breakdown of Cattle Population in 1972
Region                                   Head of Cattle ('000)
Arusha                                      2,376.9
Dodoma                                        767. 4
Iringa                                        235.7
Kigoma                                         79.5
Kilimanjaro                                   241.5
Mara                                          769.9
Mbeya                                         522.7
Morogoro                                       92.5
Mtwara/Lindi                                    6.5
Mwanza                                        872.8
Coast                                           9.0
Ruvuma                                         25.8
Shiyranga                                   1,381.9
Singida                                       775.8
Tabora                                        872.3
Tanga                                         176.5
West Lake                                     164.3
Total - - -  9,271.0
Source:  KILI1O
February 6, 1975



ANNTEX 4
Table 2
TAN14A4U
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Production of Goat IviLk in Tanzania 1967 to 1970
Goats in Milk         Yield         Estlkrated Production
Year           Head             Gallons                 Gallons
1967          294,900             34                10,02$,000
1968          303,800             34                10,329,000
1969          289,900             34                 9,919,000
1970          296,300             34                10,139,000
Source:  Dairy:  Preliminary Consnodity Note; Marketing Development
Bureau, September 1973. (From FAO data).
February 5, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Aspects of Dairy Development
Introduction
1.        Less than 2% of milk produced in Tanzania enters the commercial
sector. Dairy products are part of the production of the traditional herd,
and are most often either consumed by the family or sold or bartered within
the village. This annex is principally addressed to the commercial segment
of the dairy industry, which concerns predominantly the urban markets, and
which consists of a limited number of commercial dairy farms, the processing
plants (Annex 6) and the marketing of dairy products. The role of dairy
production for the vast rural sector is also discussed briefly.
Milk Production (See Annex 4)
2.        Data on total milk production is poor, since it is based on extra-
polation from available information on the total cattle production and on
co-efficients of production that are not well known. Most milk is produced
by indigenous cattle owned by small farmers.  In some parts of Tanzania,
small farmers have animals with varying amounts of exotic blood, which are
kept primarily for milk production. Estimates of total milk production are
shown in Table 1. Significant quantities of milk are also produced by the
national goat herd, but this is almost entirely consumed at the subsistence
level (Annex 4, Table 2).
3.        Commercial milk production is concentrated in the Arusha/Kilimanjaro
and Dar-es-Salaam regions with lesser amounts near other urban centers, and
is oriented to production for milk processing facilities. Fresh milk is
produced by three groups of producers: state farms, individual large far-
mers, and small farmers and village producers. The trend in commercial milk
production in the last few years has been significantly downwards: total
annual fresh milk intake at Coastal Dairies and Northern Dairies declined
from Twre than 8 million liters in 1970 to 5.5 million liters in 1973. This
decline is principally the result of abandonment of farms by non-African
farmers, inadequate farm investment, and low milk prices (see Annex 6).
Milk Processing
4.        There are five commercial dairy processing units in operation
located at Dar-es-Salaam, Arusha, Tabora, Musoma and Utegi. Individual
farmers operate a number of dairies which cater mainly to smaller urban
pockets not supplied by the main commercial processing units. New processing



ANNEX 5
Page 2
units are planned in Tanga and Mbeya. Technical aspects of existing plants
and current levels of production are discussed in Annex 6. The plants pro-
duce primarily pasteurized liquid milk but also some yogurt and a little
butter, cheese and ghee. The largest plants, Coastal Dairies Ltd., Dar-es-
Salaam, and Northern Dairies Ltd., Arusha, depend heavily on imported milk
power and butter oil for their products.
5.        The five main milk processing plants are all operating at well
below full capacity, mainly because of shortages of raw milk and technical
difficulties. The total quantity of local fresh milk processed is a very
small fraction of total production; most milk is consumed raw by farmers or
sold raw or slightly soured to other consumers in the locality.
Imports of Dairy Products
6.        Imported dairy products fall into two categories:  those imported
for the large-scale dairies, to be used for reconstitution of milk, and those
imported for sale to consumers throughout Tanzania. Imports of dairy products
have increased rapidly in recent years, in part because of the decline in
commercial production, but primarily because of the rapid increase in demand
for dairy products in the growing urban centers. Total imports of milk and
milk products for the period 1961 to 1972 are summarized in Table 2. Table 3
shows 1973 imports broken down by principal groups of products and source of
supply.  An increasing proportion of dairy imports have come from Kenya,
although within the past year there have been some difficulties with Kenyan
supplies (primarily failure to deliver orders) and the commercial dairies
are no longer permitted to import Kenyan skim milk powder or butter oil,
although prices have been substantially lower than from other suppliers.
The major growth items have been evaporated and condensed milk, skimmed milk
powder, infants milk, and dried whole milk and cream. Coastal Dairies Ltd.,
and Northern Dairies import dairy supplies directly. All other imports are
handled by the General Foods Company Ltd., and the wholesalers are Regional
Trading Corporations. The level of imports is determined by the General
Foods Company, according to foreign exchange made available by the Treasury
and, to a lesser extent, requests from Regional Trading Corporations. Be-
cause profit margins for dairy products are fixed at a low level, there is
possibly some competition for import licenses among dairy products, which
stand high on the priority list for social reasons, and other food products,
which might qualify as luxury goods, and which are significantly more profitable.
7.        Net imports of milk and milk products to Tanzania totalled 16.2
million kg in 1973 (value Tsh. 69.6 million), an increase of 2.7 million kg
since 1970. This represented about 3% of Tanzania's total imports, and about
24% of total agricultural imports for 1973. In 1970, net imports to the
Tanzania mainland were approximately equivalent to about 64 million kg whole
milk (8.9% SNF); assuming that the import structure has not changed signi-
ficantly in the last four years, present annual imports may be the equivalent
of about 76.6 million kg of whole milk. Using this figure and data on



ANNEX 5
Page 3
domestic production - totalling about 490 million kg in 1972 - the present
average per capita consumption can be estimated at about 40 kg per annum or
110 gr/day of whole milk equivalent. It is apparent that given the rapidly
in -easing demand for milk in Tanzania (Table 4 gives indicative projections),
if the Government is to fulfill its objective of reducing imports of dairy
products there would have to be a significant increase in both milk produc-
tion per cow and in the size of the milking herd.
Marketing
8.        The milk plants deliver liquid milk in Tetra Pak cartons to a large
number of retail outlets. Transport has presented a problem in Dar-es-Salaam
where further outlets are required, but the distribution system generally
works adequately. Fresh milk is transferred to a limited extent from urban
centers with milk plants to towns withl no processing facilities. Imported
dairy products are retailed by local food stores throughout Tanzania, and
they appear to be a popular item in local dukas even in relatively remote
rural areas. Condensed milk and infants' milk reportedly sell well when they
are available, but there are frequent shortages. This suggests first, that
even the rural poor will pay a high price for dairy products, and second,
that there is a large unsatisfied demand for these products at present.
Tables 5 and 6 show sales of imported, manufactured dairy products in two
regions of Tanzania.
consumption-and Demand
9.        In most parts of Tanzania, supplies of liquid milk and manufactured
dairy products are insufficient to meet consumer demand. This shortfall is
most significant in the urban areas. Data on milk consumption are poor, and
no adequate marketing studies have been undertaken. Current consumption
levels and the potential for market expansion are therefore not known. How-
ever, it is clear from past experience and from various sample surveys that
there is a large unsatisfied demand for milk and milk products, both in the
commercial sector and in the rural areas. Past growth rates in the large
urban centers have been estimated at about 25% per year.
10.       An estimate - albeit a crude one - is essential in order to arrive
at possible future development targets for milk production as well as to
quantify the total demand for milk and milk products calculated on a nutri-
tional basis. One specialist 1/ estimated that the annual growth of demand
with an income elasticity of 0.6 would be 4.3 percent over a 20-year period
(up to 1990) and with an income elasticity of 1 percent, the growth of demand
would be 4.8 percent per annum (Table 4). These estimates were, however,
made under the assumption that the quantities consumed in 1970 totalled 750
million kgs of milk and milk products which in light of the revised 1972
figures on total milk production and imports may be 30-40% on the high side.
1/   "Dairy Production and A.I. in Tanzania," 1971.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Another assumption which is no longer valid was that consumer prices remain
at the 1970 real values. Despite reservations, the report's estimates of
total demand of milk and milk products (domestically produced and imported)
are useful as an indication of the orders of magnitude and variance involved.
However, projections of demand and of consumption tend to be rather academic
in a situation where there are now and are likely to be for the foreseeable
future major constraints in supply.
Milk Pricing Policy
11.       Prices are controlled at: the producer and retail levels for com-
mercially processed milk. Prices to the producer are established by regional
authorities (the Regional Price Controller) after consultation with the pro-
cessing plants, because milk is viewed as a product of basic necessity.
Prices paid to producers have varied significantly from region to region,
ranging from 50 cents per liter irt Mara to 1.14 shillings at Coastal Dairies.
Although prices paid by consumers for direct purchases from farmers are
generally higher than controlled dairy price, compulsory marketing orders
oblige farmers near processing facilities to sell only to the dairies. Retail
prices for processed milk products are established also by regional authori-
ties in consultation with processing plants. Prices are determined by adding
processing and distribution costs to the cost of raw milk and imported con-
stituents. Prices of imported milk products are set by the National Price
Commission; fixed margins are allowed for profits for importers, wholesalers,
transport and retailers. Duties are charged on imported manufactured milk
products from outside the East African community with the exception of in-
fants' milk and skimmed milk powder and butter oil for commercial dairies,
and these duties are passed on to the consumer. Price structures for the
commercial dairies are described in Annex 6.
12.       The Government has indicated that the aim of future pricing policy
will be to set a price which will enable as much milk to be produced in
Tanzania as is economically desirable, and yet which is not so high as to
affect consumers adversely particularly those in the low income categories.
They propose, with the formation of a single processing company (Tanzania
Dairies Ltd. - TDL), to introduce a national milk price which would be
adjusted for cost movements. They propose to increase the price paid to
farmers fo 1/25 per liter in 1975 by the time the Project commences. This
price was almost exactly comparable to the equivalent cost of the imported
constituents of a liter of reconstituted milk at the time the appraisal
mission was in Tanzania, using prices actually paid by CDIL for imports
scheduled for December 1974 delivery (Table 7). However, it must be recog-
nized that there are many uncertainties in determining price equivalents
among fresh milk products, re=onstituted milk, and manufactured milk products
(which are substantially more expensive now in Tanzania than fresh milk equi-
valents), including uncertain projections for future SMP and butter oil prices,
and possible price distortions in SMP prices. In comparing current price



ANNEX 5
Page 5
levels in Tanzania and Kenya, it is apparent that Tanzania prices are sub-
stantially higher (Tsh 1.14 per liter for CDIL for example, versus the
official Kenya farm gate price of Ksh 0.75/liter; this reflects in part the
higher cost of production in Tanzania, and the lower level of development
of the industry. However, another factor is the likelihood that the Kenya
price itself is somewhat arbitrarily fixed and is probably set now at too
low a level.
13.       The price paid to producers and the retail prices for dairy pro-
ducts will in large measure determine the financial viability of the Project,
and will have a major influence on future development of the Tanzanian dairy
industry. In the past, low prices have had an adverse effect, but primarily
on commercial producers, since traditional producers have been largely un-
affected by the official price structure. As new processing facilities come
into operation, if prices are fixed and compulsory marketing orders are
enforced, the impact of price control policies will extend beyond the strict-
ly commercial sector and will influence small producers to a greater extent.
While it is important that producer prices be at a level that will ensure
the financial viability of commercial producers, there is a risk that if
price levels were too high, milk would be attracted from small producers
to an extent that would be detrimental to nutritional levels in villages.
This might occur in areas such as Mara, where current producer prices are
relatively low, if a fixed national price were introduced. The objectives
of pricing policies should thus be to ensure that dairy production is finan-
cially viable, to encourage small producers to increase their production for
the growing urban markets, but-to avoid drawing milk from the villages into
the urban markets without a concommitant effort to assist in increasing pro-
duction to a level where nutritional requirements would be met before sur-
pluses were sold outside the village.
Nutritional Aspects
14.       The Tanzanian Goverment gives high priority to rural development,
increased self-sufficiency and improved nutritional levels, particularly as
regards the most vulnerable groups of the population, young children and
pregnant and nursing mothers. It is therefore useful to attempt to quantify
the nutritional needs for milk and milk products using infomration available
in two main reports on the subject, 1/ and in other reports elaborating figures
collected from limited areas. Milk is generally regarded as one of the most
perfect foods available in East Africa from a nutritional point of view and
the Tanzanians are usually keen consumers of milk although there are consi-
derable variations in consumption habits in various parts of the country.
1/   Food Production in Tanzania - Strategy outline.  Progress Report of
Fourth Ministerial Executive Committee, Technical Committee IV: Food and
Nutrition, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, 6/10/1971; and
Dairy Development in Tanzania, Implications for Nutritional Improvement,
Product Locations and Import Substitutions, Dr. Tom Zalla, Visiting
Research Fellow, Economic Research Bureau, University of Dar es Salaam,
1972.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
This might depend more on short supply and low purchasing power than on
specific consumer preferences. Milk is an excellent complement to diets
based mainly on maize, sorghum, banana, and cassava. The per caput require-
ments of total protein have in some. studies been set at 60-65g per day for
active adults and 45g for a 3-4 year-old child. Pregnant and lactating women
have an estimated requirement of 90g/day. Accordingly about one third of a
litre of milk would supply 17-19, and 25 percent of the total daily require-
ment of protein for the first two groups respectively. The same quantity
of milk would supply the total daily requirement of essential amino acids
for adults except in respect to methionine and cystine, but the requirement
for tryptophan would not be fully met at this level of intake. The most
important sources of protein in the average national diet are cereals which
according to "Food Production in Tanzania" are estimated to provide 37% of
average intake, followed by animal products, 28%, and legumes, 19%. Consi-
dering that a 20% intake of animal protein is generally seen as a minimum
level, the above average is undoubtedly too low to ensure a sufficient and
even supply of essential amino acids in all regions of the country.
15.       The results of the most recent study of available data was published
in 1974 ("Family Food Consumption Survey in Rural Tanzania", by Maletnlema,
Mhombolage and Ngowi). Food consumption was studied in five villages in West
Lake, Tabora, Coast, Kilimanjaro and Morogoro regions and it was found that
on the whole, calorie deficiency is the most severe problem in the five areas:
"Protein calorie deficiency, especially kwashiorkor
seems to be mainly due to improper use of available foods
and repeated attacks by other diseases. Kwashiorkor
Marasmus and various other forms of malnutrition are quite
common in Tanzania. From data collected so far by the
Tanzania Human Nutrition Unit, on the nutritional status
of about 4,000 pre-school children (and about 5,000 adults)
it is estimated that about half a million children under
five years of age suffer from mild to severe forms of
protein calorie deficiency. This represents about 25% of
the under-five population."
The average calorie intake for adults was estimated at 2,520 calories in
Kilimanjaro, 1,890 in Kisarawe (Coast Region) and 1,610 in Morogoro. This
falls far below the recommended allowances computed from European figures,
but agrees fairly well with the FAO finding of 2,000 to 2,500 calories per
caput per day for the developing countries. However, in conclusion, it
appears likely that the average deficit in the whole country might range
between 20 and 40 percent due to regional and seasonal variations in supply.
The study further reveals that the average intake of reference protein was
30gr per day per person among the 138 household members studied. Total crude
protein intake was 60gr per caput per day in Karagwe and in Kilimanjaro. In
the former area, however, intake was mainly of vegetable origin while the
latter area's diet contained about 40% protein of animal origin. If the
recommended intake of reference protein is set at a level of 35-38gr/person/



ANNEX 5
Page 7
day, the actual average intake in the whole country may at present be 15-20%
below that level.
16.       Milk and milk products are evidently an important part of the diets
of Tanzanians, especially in rural areas, and an increase in milk production
would contribute to improving diet and resolving protein deficiency problems.
M:ay 13, 1975



ANNIX ?
Table 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DiENLWPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Popul_tion and Milk Production
Indigenous   EXotic Breed
Population - '000                          9,500-        n.a.
Cows in Milk - '000                        1,556            6
Average Yield/ani.mal/annual litres          306-      2,h75_/
Total Production, litres '000 3/         h76,073      11l,850
1/ Based on 1972 agricultural census preliminary results
2/ FAO data
3/ Calculated fron estimated population and yield
Soturce: Dairy: Preliminary Commodity Note, Marketing Development
Bureau, September. 1973.
January 3, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 2
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVE1OP:ENT PROJECT
Net imports of milk and milk products 1961 to 1972
East African
Foreign              Community               Total
Year _
kg        shs         kg         shs          kg        shs
1961   6,131,719 13,286,900  1,004,004  5,382,860  7,135,723  18,669,760
1962   7,064,047 14,826,400  1,089,980  5,796,140  8,154,027  20,622,540
1963   7,102,423 16,724,871  1,385,97h  6,964,860  8,488,397  23,689,731
1964   6,927,464 17,719,620  1,596,618  6,766,100  8,524,087  24,485,720
1965   7,361,882 20,562,820  1,718,274  6,251,940  9,080,156  26,814,760
1966   8,047,816 23,126,390  2,604,763  8,970,100 10,652,579  32,096,490
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1967  10,338,814 31,682,900  3,357,534 11,427,320 13,696,343  43,110,220
1968   8,300,969 21,443,440  4,095,224 17,739,140 12,396,193  39,181,580
1969   9,288,003 24,396,974  4,659,957 19,180,571 13,947,960  43,577,545
1970   7,612,400 23,855,660  5,835,353 25,658,545 13,447,753  49,514,205
1971   8,128,500 24,617,974  5,693,166 23,432,444 13,821,666  48,050,205
1972   7,893,400 29,823,458 10,143,197 43,233,309 18,036,597  73,056,767
Source:  Annual Trade Statistics, East African Conmmunity
January 3, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imports of Dairy Products, 1973
(Tsh '000)
Nether-    Switzer-                                     West
Kenya      lands         land      USA        UK        Denmark   Germany   Other   Total
PRODUCT
Fresh Milk                      4,273.4       -          -                      -          -          -         -      4,273.4
Whole Milk Powder and Cream  13,958.3         390.5    1,341.9       -          -        9.9          -         -    15,700.6
Skimmed Milk Powder             2,525.1    2,846.2       -         3,455.5   311.4         -       0.2        1.6      9,140.0
Tinned Milk                    17,705.0    3,597.8       -           -          -          -          -         -    21,302.8
Butter                          4,267.9       101.5                                                             -      4,369.4
Ghee                            1,473.7       -          -           -          -          -          -       861.2   2,334.9
Cheese and Curds                1,309.3        90.0        4.0       -          -       34.2       169.5      111.6   1,718.6
Infants Food                    7,133.8    1,867.9                   -        1,260.2      -       536.4        0.7  10,799.0
Total       52,646.5    8,893.9    1,345.9    3,455.5   1,571.6   44.1           706.1      975.1  69,638.7
Source: East African Community Trade Statistics
May 23, 1975
w Ul



ANNIX 5
Tabl
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Total Demand for Milk and Milk Products
in Tanzania 1970-1990
Demand of milk & milk products
Year     Population      Income elasticity 0.6               Income elasticity 1.O
Mills. Growth  Per caput    Total quantity          Percap.ut    Total quantity
(%)     (kg 1 year)  (million kgs            (kg/year)   (million kgs
whole milk equiv.)                 whole milk equiv.)
1970     12.9                58               750               58              750
2.7
1975     14.7                63               920                65             960
3.0
1980     17.1                66            1,130                71            1,220
3.0
1985     19.8                72            1,430                78            1,540
3.0
1990     22.9                76            1,750                84            1,930
Source: Hultnas Swicknertz, "Dairy Production and Artificial Insemination
in Tanzania."
January 3, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 5
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imports of Milk and Milk Products
West Lake Region
(Per Annum - 1973)
Product                       Cartons
Tinned Milk: (Liquid - Evaporated)I/
(a)  Ideal - 1 x 48 tins            24,000
1 x 96 tins             3,600
(b)  Gloria - 48 x 14 1/2 oz.        2,000
Infant Foods:-
(a)  Nespray - 24 x 1/2 kg.          1,200
12 x l kg               600
6 x 2 kg               360
(b) Lactogen  24 x 1/2 kg            1,800
12 x l kg               600
.6 x 2 kg              240
(c)  Wan  -    24 x 1/2 kg             240
6x 2 kg                240
(d)  Cerelac -- 24 x 1/2 kg            300
Fresh Milk:
300,000 1/2 liter tetra packs from KCC
Source: Regional Livestock Development Officer, West Lake Region.
1/ Whole milk equivalent - 2.99 per kilo.
2/ Whole milk equivalent - 6.52 per kilo.
May 23, 1975



AINEX 5
Table 6
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPI4ENT P.ROJECT
Imports of Milk and Milk Products: Mbeya and Rukwa
(Month of July, 19T4)
1. Tinned Mlilk: (Ideal)
Sold      - Large size tins (14½ oz net):  800 x 48
- Small size tins (6 oz): 620 x 96
Bought (W 2/65 and 1/35 for large and small tins respectively.
Retailed @ 1/20 for both small and large tins.
2. Lac togen:
Sold      - Large size tins (2 kg net):  43 x 6, W 205/45 per
carton of 6 tins, retailed @ 34/95 each tin.
- Medium size tins (1 kg net): 89 x 12, & 218/45 per
carton*of 12 tins, retailed (9 19/10 per tin,
- Small size tins (500 gms): 165 x 24, r& 234/10 per
carton of 24 tins, retailed @ 10/25 per tin.
3.  Nespra:  -(Powdered milk)
Sold      - Large tins (2 kg net):  30 x 6, & 186/85 per
carton of 6, retailed 9 32/70 per tin.
- Medium size (1 kg net): 191 x 12, X 199/50 per
carton of 12 tins, retailed (a 17/45 per tin.
- Small size tins (500 gms net): 146 x 24, X 212/90 per
carton of 24 tins, retailed ( 9/30 per tin,
4.  Powdered Milk:  (500 tins gms net)
Sold      - (30 x 24) tins, @ 267/75 per carton of 24 tins,
retailed @ 11/70 per tin.
5. Powdered Milk:  (Tins 500 gms net)
Sold      - 23 x 24 tins, @ 300/35 per carton of 24 tins,
retailed k 13/15 per tin.



ANNEX -5
Table 6
Page 2
6. Condensed Sweetened Milks ITins 400 gms net)
(a) Smiling Boy - Sold (500 x 48) tins, @ 119/30 per carton of
48 tins, retailed @ 2/60 per tin.
(b) Gloria - Sold (900 x 48) tins, @ 157/10 per carton of
48 tins, retailed @ 3/45 per tin.
7. Butter
(a) Tinned Butter (500 gms net) Y- Sold (100 x 20) tins, @ 176/90
per carton of 20 tins, retailed @ 9/30 per tin.
(b) Packets Butter (500 gms) - Sold (30 x 50) packets, @ 398/60
per carton of 50 packets, retailed § 8/35 per
packet.
Source:  Livestock Development Officer, Mbeya.
/ There is large demand and the supply is very limited; available
only 2 months during the year.
February 6, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 7
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVEIDPMLNT PROJECT
Fresh Milk vs. Reconstituted Milk:
Basis of Calculation of Price Equivalents
Fresh Milk:
CDIL price at dairy:  1/14 Tsh. per liter
Proposed price: 1/25 Tsh. per liter
Reconstituted Milk (CDIL products)
Assumption: 1 liter reconstituted milk is equivalent to
1.03 kg; it consists of:
3.2% butter fat
8.5% solid non-fats
88.3% water
Prices, c.i.f.: Skim milk powder: US$1236 per metric ton
or Tsh. 8825 (December, 1974 actual price)
Butter oil:  11/- kilo (99.3% MF)
Water: 1/- ton
Taking into account losses (@ 6% for SMP, and 1% for butter oil),
the cost of constituent ingredients for reconstituted milk,
prior to recombination or processing, is approximately
1/24 Tsh.
February 7, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Collection, Processing and Distribution
Introduction
1.        Commercial milk processing is confined to the larger urban centers
of Tanzania. There are five commercial milk processing units in operation:
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd. in Dar es Salaam, Northern Dairies Ltd. in
Arusha, Mara Dairy Company Ltd. with two units, one in Utegi and one in
Musoma, and the Vyamwezi Creameries operating a plant in Tabora. In addition,
two small plants are under construction in Mbeya and one is planned for Tanga
in the near future. Private producers process a limited amount of milk in
Iringa.
Coastal Dairy Industries (CDIL), Dar es Salaam
2.        This milk plant has been in operation since late 1969.  It became
a subsidiary of the National Agricultural and Food Corporation (NAFCO) in
August 1970 and NAFCO is the sole shareholder. The plant recombines skim
milk powder and butter oil (virtually all imported) into reconstituted milk
which is mixed with locally sqpplied milk for further processing into pasteur-
ized toned milk and yoghurt. Sales of cream are insignificant and production
of ice cream mix has been discontinued due to lack of storage facilities.
The plant has a capacity of 60,000 litres per day; inadequate cold stores are
the principal bottleneck to increasing production. Milk is sold in 1/2 litre
and 1/5 litre Tetra Standard packs and yoghurt is fermented and sold in 250
grams plastic cups.  Adequate machinery for proper treatment and packing of
yoghurt is not available and this is the main constraint for increased sales
of that popular product. Products are distributed to between 400 and 500
retail outlets, hotels, and institutions in the Dar es Salaam area (est.
population 500,000). CDIL has a personnel of 170 divided as follows: Factory
management 3, maintenance 11, reception 5, processing 16, packing 19, labora-
tory 2, watchmen 5, and transport 9. The remainder are employed for administra-
tion and other unspecified duties.
3.        Fresh milk is delivered to the CDIL plant by farmers.  The dairy
has no arrangement for milk collection. The fresh milk supply comes from
about 20 producers within a radius of 40 miles from the plant, who deliver
between 5,000 - 6,000 kg daily. Purchases of fresh milk have dropped signifi-
cantly in the last 5 years frcm 3,546 tons in 1970 to 2,187 tons in 1973
(see Table 1). The lack of collection facilities is in part responsible for
this decline, for it has deterred a number of small-scale producers.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Milk quality:  Milk is checked daily with regard to fat content,
specific weight (lactometer reading) and taste and flavor (organoleptic test);
methylenblue and sediment tests are frequently carried out, particularly on
qualitatively questionable supplies. The grading system and pricing applied
by the plant is described in Table 2. About 98.3% of the total milk supply
was of grade 1 in the first half of 1974, 0.7% of grade 2, 0.5% of grade 3
and the rest of low grade (rejected). The hygienic quality of milk varies
widely; farms with cooling equipment and trained milkers can maintain a
satisfactorily low total count of bacteria while milk from small producers
in many cases arrives at the plant uncooled and in a rapidly deteriorating
bacteriological condition. Adequate checking of coliform total bacteria is
not carried out, due to inadequate laboratory facilities.
5.        Price:  The average price for milk to the producer varied between
95.6 cents and 96.0 cents/kg monthly before the price was increased by 20 cents/
kg from April 1974.
6.        Milk Processing:  The current processing capacity of the plant is
as follows:
Technical capacity      Present throughput (urits)
in 12 hours production       and production time
units/day                   required (h)
Pasteurized milk
(tStoned")
Pasteurization) /1
Homogenizing  )               100,000 liters              42,000 liters/7h
Separation    )
Packing
1/2 L. Tetra Pak (3)          125,000 packs               68,000 packs/8h
1/5      "    "  (2)          100,000 packs               30,000 packs/Sh
(85,500 liters)            (40,000 liters)
Yoghurt
Ripening, cooling)              1,000 liters                1,000 liters
in churns and    )
manual packing   )              4,000 cups                 4,000 cups
Packing Capacity )             86,500 liters               41,200 liters /2
)           230,000 packs              102,000 packs
/1   9,000 liters/hr.
/2   Standardized milk in bulk, 200 liters/day included.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
The working day of the plant is presently divided into two phases. Loading
of distribution trucks, milk reception and pasteurization starts early in
the morning while packing begins at noon and continues to about 8.00 p.m.
Some producers also supply milk in the evening. This schedule of production
seems to extend the total time of operation unnecessarily and a more "over-
lapping" operation could significantly lower costs.
7.        Milk Sales:  Total milk sales have increased considerably during
the last 4 years. Table 3 gives a breakdown of average daily sales of the
main grQups of products in 1970-73 and Table 4 gives a breakdown of sales of
various products from January to June 1974. Sales have doubled in the past
four years, providing for a liquid milk consumption in Dar-es-Salaam of nearly
0.1 liter per caput per day on an average basis. This figure probably varies
between 0.05 and 0.2 liters for low incomes consumers and-more affluent
citizens respectively. Table 5 shows sales prices for dairy products.
8.        Distribution:  CDIL has a fleet of 14 lorries for distribution.
However, breakdowns and repairs considerably lower the capacity of the lorries;
four are generally out of service and five experience continuous breakdowns.
Only four vehicles, all 1973 models, are in reliable running order. The first
delivery to customers takes place early in the morning and a limited number
of retailers are also supplied in the afternoon. An examination of the present
distribution system indicates that CDIL supplies milk to only about one-third
of the retail outlets in the city. Approximately 40% of the retail outlets
do not sell milk and a further 12% are in short supply. CDIL also supplies
some 14 milk kiosks which operate on a rental basis (Shs. 175/month). These
wooden kiosks serve the passing public and it has been estimated that half
the milk sold is consumed on the spot. Tables 6 and 7 provide information
on CDIL's financial position.
Northern Dairies Ltd., Arusha
9.        The Arusha milk plant is a NAFCO subsidiary which began operations
in July 1967. It is equipped to manufacture pasteurized milk, cream, butter,
cheese, and'ghee but to date it has concentrated mainly on milk and small
quantities of yoghurt, butter and ice cream mix for Arusha and Moshi (Table 8).
Considerable quantities are also distributed in Tanga (in October 1974,
4,000-4,500 liters/day), which is 450 km from Arusha. The total population
of three cities is approximately 140,000. The intake of locally produced milk
to be used for "toning" of reconstituted milk is at present only about 25% of
total requirements and the plant has imported considerable quantities of
pasteurized milk in bulk from Kenya. In 1972-73, liquid imports equalled the
amount collected locally (6,000-12,000 liters/day) but-imports were discon-
tinued in mid-1974 due to an increase in the price up to 1.35 sh/1, and the
10-ton tanker purchased for transport is presently not used. The plant employs
about 103 people.
10.       Collection and Processing:  Northern Dairies provides limited collec-
tion services for small producers at two points: Karangi (50 km from Arusha)
and Ngaranyaki (40 km from Arusha). Total daily collection from these points



ANNEX 6
Page 4
totals 4,000 liters. Most milk is collected from 24 large farms in the
Kilimanjaro area.
11.       Producer Prices and Quality Control:  Prices to producers are given
in Table 9. Prices paid for locally collected milk averaged 0.9 sh/kg in
January, 0.89 in February, and 0.83 in March 1974, but rose in April to 1.12.
The same level of 1.11 to 1.12 sh/kg was maintained in July-August. Local
farm milk is checked daily organoleptically and using 10 min-Resazurin test.
Fat content is checked twice monthly and sedimentation once monthly. Milk
with a suspected fat content below 3.2% is tested with regard to degree of
adulteration and acidity. About 93% of milk received is of 1st grade.
12.       Plant Capacity and Daily Throughput:  The Arusha milk plant has
comparatively modern equipment; most vehicles were supplied by UNICEF. The
pasteurization unit has a capacity of 40,000 litres in an 8 hr. shift. In a
two shift operation the capacity would rise to 60,000 liters daily. The milk
packing unit is comprised of 3 Tetra Pak filling machines (2 for 1/2 liter
packs and 1 convertible unit for other sizes). The current output of this
group is about 60,000 packs daily but the technical capacity in two shift
production would be 100% more. Yoghurt is manufactured in a primitive way;
hatch temperation and fermentation of milk in,churns, cooling in cold store
and manual packing. The capacity of this labor intensive system is only 1,000
cups per day. The plant has a small butter manufacturing unit (80 kg butter
per day) and a vat for production of ghee. The ice cream machinery is of
moderate quality; it has a stated capacity of 1,500 kg per shift while the
present throughput is about 250 kg per day. The factory building is compara-
tively well utilized and an expansion may be required in about 5 years, al-
though sales to Tanga are likely to be discontinued when the proposed milk
plant there is completed.
13.       Sales and distribution of milk and milk products:  Northern Dairies
has four covered lorries for distribution of milk in Arusha, one in Tanga and
three in Moshi. One refrigerated lorry is available for ice cream distribu-
tion in addition to a number of small ice boxes for selling on the streets of
Arusha. Milk is delivered to the retailers during the early morning hours and
a complementary supply is delivered at 2:00 - 3:00 p.. There are also 3 office
vehicles available for service transport. Daily distribution of milk in
August 1974 was as follows:
Arusha          16,045 liters
Moshi           11,228 liters
Tanga            2,202 liters
Total           29,479 liters
The cost of transport of milk to Tanga is Sh 2,250/ or 41 cents/1 (delivery
every second day). Sales and prices are shown in Tables 10 and 11.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
14.       Average daily milk sales have increased rapidly in the last two
years, without any significant new marketing effort. There appears to be
considerable untapped demand for fresh milk products in the Arusha and
Kilimanjaro districts, and sales might easily be increased by an annual rate
of 15-18%. Improved facilities for fermented low-fat milk processing would
also be a good commercial and nutritional venture. Tables 12 and 13 provides
information on the financial position of Northern Dairies.
Mara Dairy Company Ltd., Musoma and Utegi
15.       Until recently, there was one small milk plant in the Mara region
at Musoma operated by the Regional Cooperative Union until 1966, when NAFCO
took over as the main shareholder. The plant collected, pasteurized and
retailed milk. The price paid to producers at collection points or at the
dairy was 71 cents per liter; this relatively high price was possible because
transport costs for raw milk were low. The total supply to the Musoma plant
in 1970 was 637 tons; the main product was ghee, manufactured from cream
supplied to the plant by several private producers with separators, who paid
farmers about 14 cents a llter, but returned the skimmed milk to them after
processing. After 1966, the Musoma plant was expanded and equipped with
sophisticated machinery for pasteurization and separation, butter manufacture,
and UHT (ultra-high-temperature) treatment and aseptic packing of milk, under
a Danish credit. Operations were to begin in June 1974, but in September/
October 1974, only limited experimental production had been undertaken.
16.       The company has also established a plant in Utegi in an old sisal
factory. This plant has modern equipment for production of milk powder and
ghee. It began operations in September 1973 and has to date absorbed the
bulk of milk collected in the Mara region. One difficulty is that the Mara
river can be crossed only by ferry, and supplies from Musoma are occasionally
disrupted.
17.       The Mara Dairy Company has a total personnel of 100 employees; 45
in Musoma, 40 in Utegi (including farm personnel) and 16 in administration.
The Utegi factory reportedly employs 22 people; (management 3, processing and
maintenance 13, transport 3, and administration 3).
18.       Production Capacity and Current Throughput:  The current capacity
of the Musoma plant is as follows:
Milk intake                               5,000 liters/hour
Milk pasteurization and separation        6,000 liters/hour
UHT-unit                                  2,000 liters/hour
Aseptic packing                           1,800 liters/hour (3,600 packs)
Butter manufacture                        1,000 kg/day



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Thus, total processing capacity in one shift is:
Pasteurized milk                         40,000 liters
UHT milk                                  10,000 liters
Butter (cream from standardization of)    400 kg
Thus, a supply of 15,000 tons of fresh milk per year (300 working days) would
be required to operate the plant at full capacity in one shift. In October
1974, about 7,000 liters/day were received by the plant; 2,000 liters were
pasteurized and distributed in bulk in Musoma (18,000 inhabitants) and 5,000
liters were sent to Utegi for further processing. Pasteurized milk sold for
1.40 sh/1 in bulk (90 cents/1 in rural trade), butter for 6.25 sh/kg ex-factory;
including a sales tax of 40% the price was 8.75 sh/kg.
19.       The Utegi plant has a maximum capacity of approximately 50 tons of
milk per day which with 80% utilization would absorb about 15,000 tons of
fresh milk annually. The intake of milk during the period January-August 1974
was however, only about 2,800 tons which gives an average capacity utilization
of less than 20%. The Utegi plant's production from January to August 1974
was:
dried skim milk powder          190 tons
ghee                            127 tons
The plant also distributed about 700 liters of pasteurized milk per day in
Utegi (1,500 inhabitants) and.in Tarimi (6-7000 inhabitants) at a selling
price of 1.25 sh/liter while the retailing agent charged 1.40 sh/liter to the
consumers. Tables 14 and 15 provide information on the financial position of
the Mara Dairy Company.
20.       Milk Collection.  The Mara Dairy Company plans to set up a network
of 90-100 collection/cooling centers with Danish assistance. In August 1974,
47 centers had been established with 18 in the Utegi area north of the Mara
River and 29 in the Musoma area. The Musoma centers collected 1,230 tons in
May-August (average 321 kg/day). The tanker collection fleet consists of
8 modern vehicles with a capacity of 5,000 liters each. Three tankers are
located at the Utegi plant (1 out of service) and 5 in Musoma. The tankers
are already, after 1 year's service, in comparatively bad condition due to the
undeveloped infrastructure and almost complete absence of paved roads. Two
additional tankers were recently delivered.
21.       The current collection system is extremely expensive, given the
limited supply of fresh milk in the Mara region.  Supplies can be increased
significantly only if milk yields from small producers rise, which would
require a concerted effort to provide assistance to small producers, primarily
through extension and improved animals. This will take a long time. An in-
crease in the producer price might increase supplies immediately, and lower
unit costs for collection and production; however, it might also attract more
milk from the rural areas than is desirable, considering low levels of nutri-
tion in this region.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
22.       Future Prospects:  The two plants at Musoma and Utegi are likely
to function well below their planned capacity for some time to come, and it
would be difficult now to justify construction of these plants at their cur-
rent location on economic grounds. However, the two plants exist and they
are at present the only ones in Tanzania having facilities for preservation
of milk, and efforts should be made to increase the supply of milk to these
plants both from large-scale dairy farms and from small producers. From a
technical point of view, the production of whole milk powder at the Utegi
plant appears to represent the optimum utilization of existing capacities.
Given the acute shortage of milk, a program of production and direction of
supplies should be set up. It seems advisable to utilize the plants accord-
ing to a system of alternation. The TJHT-unit could operate perhaps 2
consecutive days/week, utilizing technical personnel from Utegi in addition
to its own staff which could be minimized. The only activities to be simul-
taneously carried out in Utegi would be a limited intake 'of milk for separation,
pasteurization and cooling. Skim milk for drying and cream for production of
butter or ghee could be accumulated in tanks at a low temperature (40 C) and
processed after 24 hours. UHT-milk should initially be produced only on a
limited scale as a luxurious product with a guaranteed high quality. The
retail price should be set at a high level especially in Dar es Salaam where
a potential demand may exist among more affluent consumers. It is necessary
to gain experience in mastering technical and quality problems which unfor-
tunately is unavailable for such a sophisticated production; this has caused
high losses (5.7% in packing material and 2.5% in milk) experience is also
required in marketing and studying consumer reactions before the decision
is made to lower the price and expand the markets. Since qualitative failure
in the phase of introduction would destroy the reputation of UHT-milk for
years, it is recommended to start production on a limited scale.
Other Milk Processing Plants Relevant to the Project
23.       Tanga:  The construction of a milk plant in Tanga is planned to
commence in 1975. Initially, the plant will be equipped to process about
6,000 liters per day, but the provision of additional capacity up to 13,000
liters per day has been taken into account. The New Zealand Government will
provide equipment and technical assistance at a value of Tsh 2.5 million and
the Tanzanian Government will finance the building which will cost about
Tsh 1.0 million. The plant will produce pasteurized milk, yoghurt, and butter
for the Tanga township which at present is supplied from the Kange dairy farm
and in smaller quantities from a few other dairies. Northern Dairies in
Arusha has a depot in Tanga; average sales are about 1 million liters annually.
The bulk of the milk is brought into town by milkmen selling milk of a question-
able quality. The total supply has been estimated at about 8,000 liters per
day currently; there is a potential demand for perhaps twice that much.
Possible seasonal surpluses could at reasonable cost be shipped to Dar es
Salaam for processing, packing and distribution (distance 280 km).
24.       The Nbeya/Kitulo Area:  The National Cold Chain Company (NCCO) has
built a small milk pasteurizing and packing plant in Mbeya (capacity 3,000



ANNEX 6
Page 8
liters/day). In addition, a joint Tanzania/Nordic project is completing a
large training center there. This institute will have a population of over
1,000 people and it is assumed that the milk produced at the training farm
and processed by their plant will be for local consumption at the campus.
It is unlikely that additional processing facilities will be required in the
near future (3-5 years). However, if current plans for dairy development on the
Kitulo Plateau are realized, a processing plant for drying and condensing may
be a viable proposition.
March 25, 1975



ANNhX 6
Tabl:&e1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd.
Milk intake 1970 - August 1974 and average fat content in 1973/74
(m tons)       X                  %
?bnth      1970    1971      1972       1973    Fat      1974      Fat
Januaury   313.4   314.2    25,7.5    222.6    4.47    218.0    4.30
February   276.0   285.6    222.2    183.5    4.46    182.0    4.44
March      299.1   302.5    2b1.7    183.5    4.43    187.5    4.41
April      285.7   289.7    230.6    169.9    4.60    185.0    4.41
Her        284.3   286.3    203.6    167.8    4.55    182.4    4.36
June       277.6   262.9    207.9    171.9    4.55    174.9    4.40
July       318.2   247.3    232.9    179.9    4.39    168.3
August     291.2   255.2    226.9    169.8    4.39    151.9
September  294.0   245.6    217.0    167.7    4.62    160.0*
October    309.7   234.7    226.8    171.4    4.39    165.0*
Novembqr   293.2   232.8    227.6    177.2    4.34    180.0*
December   304.0   247.6    230.5    221.3    4.39    200.0*
Total     3546.4  3204.4   2725.2   2186.5    4.66   2155.0
* mission lpro.ection
Source: CDIL
February 14, 1975



ANNEYX 6
Table 2
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd.
Milk Grading System and Price of Fresh Milk
Grade:         Fat Content (%) 1/        Price (Sh) 2/
1            39% and above              1.14
2            3.5-3.9                    1.12
3            3.2-3.5                    0.21
1/ Milk fat bonus paid at a rate of 0.5 cent/0.1%/kg for milk with a fat
content above 4%.
2/ Price raised by 20 cents/kg for 1.4.1974 (unchanged since 1970).
Source: CDIL
May 14, 1975



AMIDY 6
Table 3
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVElPM        PROJECT
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd.
Average Daily sales of liquid milk products (l970-73)
(litres)
1970       1971        1972       1973
"Toned" standardized
milk of all types         19,000      21,000     27,000      35,000
Cream                         21          40         41          40
Yoghurt                                  120         520        915
Total/day                 19,021      21,160     27,561      35,955
Table 4
Average Daily sales of various milk products January - June 1974,
estimated average daily sales for 19714 
(:litres)
Toned Milk             i 1.  28,542   28,545   27,1405  24,338  31,926  38,814  33,400
(3.2% B.F. 8.5% SEF)  1/5 1. 4,970    4,268    5,274   6,050   5,565   5,645   5,400
Bu1k     284       290      252      269     190     129      200
Kamili                 i1.      627       650      634       -       -        -       -
Yoghurt                i 1.   1,148    1,035    1,048       689   1,054   1,021   1,100
Fresh Cream                      48        49       46       46      45       46      50
Ice Cream Mix                              70       79       60      48      5 
3/
35,694   34,907   34,738  31,452  38,828  43,714  4IO,150
1/ Sales affected by storage of skim milk powder.
2/ Discontinued.
7/ Mission estimate.
Source: CDIL and nission estimate
April 16, 197)



ANNEX 6
Table 5
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd.
Sales prices (as from 3rd April 1974)
(Tsh)
Wholesale per pack   Retail fixed price per pack
Milk   1.                   0.95                       1.00
Milk 1/5 1.                 0.40                       0.45
Milk Bulk                   1.75 (per litre)             -
Yoghur 14 1.                1.10                       1.20
Cream !I 1.                 4.50                       5.00
Ice Cream Mix               8.00
Source: CDIL
April 16, 1975



ANNjEX 6
TANZANIA                            Tbe 6
DAIRY DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd.
Comparative Balance Sheets as at 31 December 1971-1973
(Tsh '000)
1971            1972             1973
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets at Cost            5,901           6,362            7,075
Less Depreciation               1,368   4,533   2,100   4,262   2,847   4,228
Work in Progress                                             5              500
Investment                                                                   go
Current Assets
Current Assets                  4,883           4,417            5,742
Less Current Liabilities        3967      915   3,227   1,190   4,331   1,411
Net Current Assets                      5,448            5,457           6,229
Long-Term Loans                         3,005            2,824            2,475
Net Assets Representing
Shareholders' Interest                  21443            2,633            3,754
Share Capital
Ordinary Shares of Tsh 100
each fully paid                         2,000            2,000           2,000
Revenue Reserve                           443              633           1,754
2,443           2,633            3,754
Source. CDIL
April 16, 1975



ANNmEX 6
Table 7
TAN ZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMT PROJECT
Coastal Dairies Industries Ltd.
Comparative Manufacturing,_Trading and Profit and
Loss Accounts for the Years Ended 31 December 1971 - 1973
(Tsh o000)
1971          1972           1973
Cost of Raw Materials                        6767          8A39          12598
Packing Meterials                            1197           1832          2687
Wages and Overtime                            202            213            222
Prime Cost                              8166         10984          15507
Factory Overheads                       1325          1584           1656
Net Factory Cost of Production
Transferred to Trading Account            9491          12567          17163
Opening Stock                                  44             55             51
Cost of Milk Produced                        9491          12567         17163
Total Available for Sale                     9535          12622          17213
Less Closing Stock                             55             51             66
Cost of Sales                                9480          12571          17147
Sales                                       12326          157145        21131
Gross Profit                                 2486           3174          3984
Other Revenue                                 102            122           186
Total Revenue                                2948          3296           4170
Less Administration, Sales
and Distribution Expenses                 1571          2158           2274.
Net Profit for the Year                      1377           1136          1896
Sourcet CDIL
April 16, 1975



ANN19 6
Table 8
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Mi-Lk Supisand_Production
(LOOO litres)
Local      Kenya      Total
Supply      Milk      Supply  Reconstituted Total
1970   3,775.0      452. 6    4,227.6     -          4,227.6
1971   3,4'62.0  1,278.()    4,740.0      -         4,740.0
1972   3,546.6   2,807.9    6,354.5       -         6,357.5
1973   3,368.6   3,612.1    6,980.7   2,254.5       9,235.2
1574
.7an.    216.8    1I0.±        357.2      650.0     1,007.2
Feb.     163.1     150.4       313.5      313.7       627.2
March    180.0        -        180.0      381.7       561.7
April    239.7     171.7       411.4      141.5       552.9
IM^.a,,  281.3     183.6       4614.5     2146.8      711.7
.une     261 lq    306.o       567.8     518.3      1,086.1
,Tuly    291X.94      -        20g4.0    607.6       9c01
August   231.5        -        231.5      70L.0       935.5
Source: Novthe-rn Dairies Ltd.
April 16, 1975)



AlINi&X 6
Table 9
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Prices to Producers (from 4.1.1974)
1st Grade MlIk*             1.00 sh/kg
2nd Grade Milk              0.97 sh/kg
3rd Grade Milk              0.88 sh/kg
Low Grade Milk              0.54 sh/kg
Low Grade Milk              0.42 sh/kg
k Milk fat bonus: 1 cent per 0.1% b.f. over 3.5%
a
Source: Northern Dairies Ltd.
April 16, 1975



awNEX 6
Page 10
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELDOPENT PROJECT
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Average Daily Sales - August 1974
Milk (2.5% BF and 9.1% SNF)
Tetra ½ litre pack                  1,300 litres
Tetra ½ litre pack                 27,700 litres
Tetra 1/5 litre pack                    50 litres
Bulk milk                             350 litres
Rawr milk (lshA)                        25 litres
Sour/skim milk                          62 litres
Cream                                   24 litres
Yoghurt cups (i litre)                  34 cups
Butter                                 16 kg
Ghee                                    70 kg
Source: Northern Dairies Ltd.
April 16, 1975



ANNEX
Table 11
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Sales prices in Arusha, Moshi and TE!ga (April, 1974
(Tsh)
Product                 Wholesale Price                   Retail Price
Milk in bulk               1.75/litre
½ 1 Tetra                  0.95/pack            (a) 1.00/pack collected at retail outlet
(b) 1.05/pack home-delivery
1/1 1 Tetra                1.80/pack            (a) 1.90/pack
(b) 1.95/pack
1/5 1 Tetra                0.40/pack               ,0.40/pack (a) and (b)
Ghee 3 kg                 51.50/tin                57.50/tin (recommended price)
"  18 kg                296.05/tin              310.85/tin        " 
Butter (salted) ½ kg      13.65/kg                 14.00/kg
if (unsalted)lg kg     13.90/kg                14.25/kg
Fresh Cream 1¼ 1           2.50/cups                2.70/cups
n  1          35.00/gal               37.00/gal
Ice Cream   1 gal         24.60/gal                27.00/gal
it  it   2½2 1           12.30/pack               15.00/pack
itIt    1  1         8.40/pack               10.00/pack
"i  if  250 cc cups       2.05/cups                2.50/cups
it   "   100 cc cups      0.80/cups                1.00/cups (1.10 in Tanga)
Chocolate Sticks           0.°5 stick               1.10/stick (1.20 in Tanga)
Ice Lollies                0.40/lolly               0.50/lolly (0.60 in Tanga)
Source: Northern Dairies Ltd.
April 16, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 12
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Comparative Balance Sheets as at 31 December 1971-1973
(Tsh '000)
1971             1972           1973
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets Less Depreciation
Land,Buildings & Installation      513             989             894
Plant and Machinery                614           1,091           1,065
Furniture & Fittings                72             106             116
Milk Cans                           37              38               73
Motor Vehicles                     244             246              345
Works in Progress                  -    1,480      -     2,470      40   2,533
Current Assets
Current Assets                  1L,816           1,841           2,944
Less Current Liabilities           913           1,176           1,678
Net Current Assets                         903             665           1,266
Total Assets                    2,383           3,135           3,799
Less Long-Term Loans                     1,158           1,158           1,300
Net Assets Representing
Shareholders Interest                  1,225           1,977           2,499
Share Capital                              600             600             600
Revenue Reserve                            625           1,377             920
Milk Production Reserve                    -               -               248
Retained Profit                                                            583
Long-Term Interest Reserve
_____         _____             148
1,225           1,977           2,499
April 14, 1975



ANTEX 6
TANZANIA                               Table 13
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Comparative Manufacturing, Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts for the Years ended
31 December 1971 - 1973
(Tsh '000)
1971                1972                 1973
Sales                                   7,235                9,436              19,186
Deduct
Opening Stock                  29                  34                   74
Add Milk Purchase           3,806               5,208                7,949
Add Transport                1445                 740                  679
4,280               5,991                8,777
Less Closing Stock             34     4,246        74      5,917        66     8,711
Gross Revenue                         2,989               3,519                5,476
Deduct Factory Overheads                1,783               2,283                3,554
Gross Profit                          1,206               1,236                1,921
Other Income                            160                 197                  108
Total Revenue                 1,367                1,434                2,029
Deduct Administration,
Selling & Distribution
Expenses                                669                 756                1,119
Net Profit for the Year                 698                 678                  910
Source: Northern Dairies Ltd.
April 16, 1975 -



AMEX 6
Table l4
TANZANIA
DAIRY EVELOMENT PROJECT
Mara Da        m   Ltd.
Comparative Balance Sheets for
the Years Ended 31 December 1972 and 1973
(Tsh '000)
1972                 1973
Assets
Fized Assets at Cost                       2020               10573
Less AccumLlated Depreciation           .   92      1928       1386      9187
Preliminary Expenses                                1026                 1026
Current Assets                  loss                 484                 1736
Profit and Less Account - Accumulated                  -                 2586
TotalQ
Liabilities
Share Capital                              4000                4000
less Calls Unpaid                          16oo     2400        742       3257
-                          8_ 882
Current Iiabilities                                 1038                  2796
Total
Source: Mara Dairy Company Ltd.
May 15, 1975



AIulhZlX 6
Table 153
TANZANIA
DAIRY LVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mara Dairy Company Ltd.
Comparative Profit and Loss Accownts as of 31 December 1972 and li-,73
(Tsh '000)
1972              1973
Income
Sales                                         -                 908
Other Income                                  1        1        153      1061
Expenditure
Purchases                                     -                 522
Staff expenses                              303                 504
Other expenses                              193                 866
496     1892       1892
Less Closing Stock                            -      496        302      1590
Loss before Depreciation & Interest                  495                  529
Depreciation                                 49                1294
Interest                                      -       49        763      2057
Net Loss for the Year                                544                   2586
Source: Mara Dairy Company Ltd.
April 16, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
General
1.        The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was created by the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank Act, 1971 with the following objectives:
(a) to provide medium- and long-term finance for rural development; (b) to
provide technical assistance and advice for promoting rural development;
(c) to administer such special funds as may from time to time be placed at
its disposal; (d) to finance the purchase of agricultural inputs: and (e) to
undertake such other activities as may be necessary or advantageous for
furthering the foregoing objectives. IDA approved the creation of TRDB
through an amending agreement (April 28, 1971).
2.        Several rural credit measures had been adopted by Government before
the TRDB Act was passed. Among them were measures authorizing the establish-
ment of the Land Bank of Tanganyika (1947-1961), the Agricultural Credit
Agency (1962-1964), and the National Development Credit Agency (1964-1971).
3.        TRDB inherited some 'assets and liabilities as well as certain opera-
tions from the National Development Credit Agency (NDCA), including IDA credits
80-TA (US$5 million, general agricultural credit) and 217-TA (US$6 million,
flue cured tobacco). Bad debts worth about Tsh 31 million (US$4,350,000) were
not transferred to TRDB. Nearly all of NDCA's staff were absorbed into TRDB
and most of them retained their previous assignments.
Organization and Management
4.        The management of TRDB is vested in a Board of Directors, including
a chairman and managing director appointed by the President of the Republic,
and eight other directors appointed by the Minister of Finance and chosen from
among persons with knowledge and experience of economic and financial matters,
rural development, agriculture, small scale industries, ujamaa villages or
cooperatives. The General Manager, who is appointed by the Minister of Finance
for a term of five years, manages the Bank through its five Departments and
various committees (Chart 1). TRD]3 has its head office in Dar-es-Salaam and
20 regional offices.
5.        There are four Departments:  Development, Finance, Administration and
Operations. The regional offices represent the Bank at the regional level and
provide technical assistance in project development and implementation.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
6.        The regional offices are generally manned by a Regional Representa-
tive (R.R.) and a Credit Supervisor. While the R.R. is concerned primarily
with development work, including provision of technical guidance, it is diffi-
cult for one credit supervisor to attend to his various items of work effec-
tively, particularly the collection of Bank loans (para 15). TRDB should
consider augmenting the number of credit supervisors, as appropriate, so that
one credit supervisor does not have more than, say, 15 to 20 societies under
his charge. TRDB has just recruited 18 credit supervisors who are expected
to be posted at regional offices after a three-week orientation training course.
7.        There is also a need to augment the staff in the Operations Depart-
ment at Head Office to deal with loan proposals expeditiously (para 12).
Capital Structure
8.        TEDB has an authorized capital of Tsh 300 million, divided into 300
equal shares, the Government being the sole shareholder. As on June 30, 1974,
its paid-up capital stood at Tsh 113.2 million consisting of 98 fully paid and
one partly paid shares. General reserves amounted to slightly over Tsh 2
million. Other TRDB resources comprised IDA and other international project
funds aggregating Tsh 235 million (authorized to TRDB), short-term deposits of
about Tsh 2 million, Government loans of over Tsh 50 million, National Bank
of Commerce overdrafts of Tsh 3 million, and Ujamaa village bonds of Tsh 10
million.
Loan Policy and Procedure
9.        TRDB makes short-and medium-term loans up to five years and long-
term loans up to 15 years. Eligible borrowers comprise cooperative unions
and societies, district development corporations, ujamaa villages and re-
gistered associations, corporations and individuals, and any other borrower
falling within the scope of any agreement under which TRDB has borrowed funds.
Project loans should be technically and financially viable and should be con-
sistent with national economic development priorities. TRDB secures its loans
by either a first mortgage on movable property or a value security at 75% of
the appraised value of the property. Short-term loans are generally made at
8-1/2% interest p.a., while medium- and long-term loans carry interest at
7-1/2% p.a. There is also an application fee of Tsh 5 to Tsh 500 depending
upon the loan amount. The Bank does not undertake any foreign exchange risks.
10.       Upon receipt of a loan proposal from an eligible borrower, the
regional representative of TRDB makes a preliminary appraisal following a
visit to the Project area and submits the proposal with his report to the
Regional Advisory Committee (RAC) for consideration. The proposal with the
RAC's recomendations is then sent to the Head Office of TRDB for consideration.
After the proposal is reviewed as to its technical and economic feasibility,
the management/loan committee considers it for approval.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
11.       In accordance with Bank policy, TRDB's Board recently delegated
limited authority, subject to review, to the RACS (since designated as Regional
Loan Committees) to sanction loan proposals up to a maximum ceiling of
Tsh 50,000 per project per borrower. At Head Office, the management (Chairman
and Managing Director) considers loan proposals for new projects for amounts
of Tsh 50,000 to Tsh 500,000 and up to Tsh one million for on-going projects,
while all loan proposals exceeding the above amounts are considered by TRDB's
Loan Committee, consisting of one Director, the Chairman and the Bank's
Secretary.
12.       As of June 30, 1974, TRDB had on hand 96 loan proposals for amounts
totalling Tsh 55 million awaiting consideration. The majority of the proposals
had been pending for over six months at the Head Office and regional offices.
Loan Operations
13.       The following table shows the development and diversification of
TRDB's loan operations since 1972:
.(Tsh million)
1972    1973      1974
Seasonal inputs                  21.0    62.0      85.9
Crop establishment                0.9    24.5      12.8
Rural transportation              6.6      8.6     30.4
Farm machinery                    1.0      2.0      1.3
Storage                           5.3      1.9      0.4
Commercial ventures               0.5      -        2.7
Fisheries project                  -       0.9      1.3
Livestock                         0.5      7.8     25.8
Total                 35.8   107.6    160.6
The number of loans approved by TRDB over the three-year period increased from
91 in 1972 to 103 in 1973 and to 229 in 1974. During this period, loans for
development of agriculture accounted for 65% of all loans approved by TRDB.
Further, consistent with the nation's long-term aim for rural development
through the creation of cooperative agriculture, agricultural loans through
cooperatives were of the order of Tsh 92.2 million out of the total loans of
Tsh 160.6 million approved by TRDB as of June 30, 1974.
Overdue Loans
14.       The accumulation of overdues has been a constant feature of TRDB's
operations over the last three years and as of June 30, 1974, these amounted
to Tsh 31.1 million (principal) and Tsh 4.4 million (interest) and formed
about 21% and 74% of Tsh 148 million (principal) and Tsh 6 million (interest)



ANNEX 7
Page 4
respectively outstanding and due on that date. If arrear loans are considered
in relation to the amounts which fall due for recovery during the period ended
on June 30 each year, the overdue percentages would be much higher. Out of
Tsh 35.6 million of arrear loans (principal and interest) as on June 30, 1974,
Tsh 29.4 million related to NDCA loans taken over by TRDB. The overdues in
respect of the new loans extended by TRDB itself totalled Tsh 6.2 million and
formed a little over 5% of the Bank's new loans outstanding as of June 30, 1974.
15.       While a portion of the Bank's overdues can be attributed to the
country's drought conditions during 1973, the main reason for this continuing
feature *is TRDB's weak machinery for supervision (credit supervisors) over
the utilization of loans, follow-up of project implementation, recovery drive
during harvest seasons and prompt action - legal or otherwise - against
willful defaulters (para 6).
16.       TRDB has no system for an age-analysis classification of its arrears.
The proposed Project would provide for the appointment of a consultant on a
short-term basis, to examine the arrears, to determine their realizability or
otherwise and to set up a system whereby TRDB would be able to find out
periodically the age-analysis of its arrears.
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
17.       TRDB is at present making an ad hoc provision of 1% of new loans
disbursed each year towards bad and doubtful debts. On the basis of the age-
wise classification of the arrear loans to be worked out by the consultant
(para 16), TRDB should be able to judge the adequacy of the provision and
consider the need for increasing it.
Interest Rate
18.       TRDB pays interest on loans from Government, including loans under
IDA and other international credits, at 3-1/2% - 4% p.a. On short-term
deposits it pays 5% interest p.a., while the rate is 7% p.a. on National Bank
of Commerce overdrafts. On the special ujamaa village bonds, the interest
rate is 3% p.a. TRDB charges 8-1/2% interest p.a. on its short-term loans
and 7-1/2% p.a. on medium- and long-term loans. TRDB's interest spread is
generally 5%. Interest rates of TRDB compare favorably with those charged by
the National Bank of Commerce (normal 8% p.a.) on working capital loans and
the Tanzania Investment Bank (7-1/2% - 9-1/2%) on term loans.
Accounts and Audit
19.       TRDB has adopted a mechanized accounting system.  Audit of its
accounts was performed by the Tanzania Audit Corporation which had already
completed the audit for the year ending June 30, 1974. TRDB would be required
to submit to IDA its audited annual accounts not later than six months after
the close of its financial year.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Financial Position
20.       TRDB's net profit increased from Tsh 152,000 in 1972 to Tsh 372,000
in 1973 and to Tsh 946,000 in 1974. The increase is due to a steep increase
in the Bank's lending operations, the outstandings of which increased from
Tsh 92 million in 1972 to Tsh 115 million in 1973 and to Tsh 154 million in
1974. TRDB's net earnings were, however, affected by an increase in arrear
interest which as of June 30, 1974 amounted to Tsh 4 million. Further, as
against Tsh 36 million arrear loans as of June 30, 1974, TRDB's provision for
bad and doubtful debts stood at Tsh 14 million (Tables 1 and 2).
Project Participation
21.       TRDB would act as the credit channel for financing dairy farms,
UJamaa dairy units, the West Lake heifer breeding unit and the milk collection,
processing and distribution components. In the case of the dairy farms, the
Bank would receive Project funds from Government at 4% interest for a term of
20 years with a five year grace period. TRDB would onlend the funds at 8-1/2%
interest p.a. for a term of fifteen years with a four year grace period, in
accordance with farm investment plans submitted for TRDB's approval. TRDP's
security would consist of a lien over the livestock held on such farms and
a first mortgage on all project assets until outstanding loans are repaid.
In the case of Ujamaa dairy units, TRDB would onlend funds at 8-1/2 interest
p.a. for a term of fifteen years w:Lth a grace period of four years. The items
of investment and security would be the same as for the dairy farms. For the
milk collection, processing and distribution component, TRDB would onlend funds
to TDL at 8-1/2% interest p.a. for a term of eight years without a grace period,
and the loan would cover physical investment. TRDB's security would consist
of a first mortgage on all project assets until outstanding loans are repaid.
In the case of the heifer breeding unit, TRDB would onlend Lunds at 8-1/2%
interest p.a. for a term of fifteen years with a grace period of four years;
the loan would cover investments in livestock, buildings, installation of
machinery, equipment and initial working capital. TRDB's security would be
the same as for the dairy farms.
March 25, 4975



ANNEX 7
Table 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Comparative Balance Sheets as at June 30, 1972 thru. 1974
(Tsh i000)
1972      1973         19741/
Assets
Loans (less Provision for Bad Debts)    79,036    106,289    140,755
Sundry Debtors                            2,440      3,932      16,674
Cash and Banks                           11,628     32,259     57,766
Fixed Assets                              1,025      1,269      1,588
Total Assets                        _94,129    13749    216 783
Liabilities
a.  Current                              20,955     32,267      22,343
b.  Medium-and Long Term                 33,348     51,184      78,257
Issued Share Capital                     38,000     57,711    113,211
General Reserve                           1,674      2,215      2,026
Profit                                      152        372         946
942129    143,7h9    216 783
Authorized Capital = Tsh 300 million
l/ Unaudited
November 7, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 2
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Comparative Profit and Loss Accounts for the Years Ended June 30, 1972 thru 1974
1/
1972           1973          19747/
Income
Loan Interest Received              4L,671          6,683         7,587
Other Income                           287             366          781
Total                          4 958          7,049         8,368
Expenditure
Cost of Funds                        1,669           2,319        2.150
Personnel                            1,271          1,903         2,139
Other Staff Cost                       795           1,111        1,399
Occupancy                              285             500          584
Administration                         330             501          755
Bad Debts                              317               4
Depreciation                           139             339          395
Profit for the Year                    152             372          946
4,958          7,049         8,368
1/ Unaudited
May 1,, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
TRDB: Pro,Ject Related Cash Flov
(Tsh rillitons)
1       2        3      4       5         6       7        8       9        10      11       12      13       14      15       16      17       18       19      20       21      22       23       24      25       26
Sources
Gover=rent Loans                   17.7      7.0    10.5    6.5      1.5        .1    -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -         _
Gover  ent Grant                      .7      .6       ,5     ,4       .4
loan Sepsy,oeota                    -         .6      .6      .6     5.4       5.7'    8.1      8.1     8.1      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5      2.7     2.4
Total Sources                  18.4      8.2    11,6    7.5      7.3       5.8     8.1      8.1     8.1      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5      2.7     2.4
Uses
Lons to  AFCO                        5.9     2.7      5.5    3.9       .5       .1
NACO                       7.0      2.0    _       _       _        _        _       _        _        _       _       _        _        _                                                          _                          _                _
TDL                        3.6    -        -       -       -         -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -
TSC                        1.2      2.3     2.1    2.6      1.0     -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
UjssaaaVillages                     -       -         2.9
Repayment of Goverrneot Loan       -        -        -      _       _          1.9     2.7      3.8     4.5      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      2.8      2.0      .9       .7       .7
Technicual SO:vic-                    .7      .6       .5     .4       .4
Total UsCa                     18.4      7.6    11.0    6.9      1.9       2.0     2.7      3.8     4.5      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7      4.7     4.7      2.8     2.0       .9       .7      .7
Annual Cash S-rplus/Deficit           _          .6      .6      .6     5.4      3.8      5.4     4.3      3.6     2.8      2.8     2.8      2.8     2.8      2.8    (2.0)   (2.3)   (4.7)   (4.7)   (4.7)   (2.8)   (2.0)    (.9)    (.7)    (.7)
Cowlcuati-e Cash Surplus/Deficit      -          .6     1.2    1.8      7.2     11.0    16.4    20.7    24.3    27.1    29.9    32.7    35.5    38.3    41.1    39.1    36.8    32.1    27.4    22.7    19.9    17.9    17.0    16.3    15.6
Loans for 20 years at 4% including a 5-year grrce period.,
February 18, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRDB Organization Chart - 1974
Board of Directors
Chairman and Managing Director
Loans Committee                            Regional Loans Committees
General Manager
Workers Committee  -                         Appointment Committee
Development                      Finance                  AdinTinistrati^r         Operations    Regional
Department                     Department                 Department                Department   Offices
I                      I~~~~~~~I                                            i                I
Development                 Chief Accountant               Secretary               Operations    Regional Rep.
Officer                                                                           Manager           (21)
______________________                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Credit   Sup.
Project   Financial     Data        Assistant   Cashier      _      _     _      _
Officers  Analyst    Processors    Accountants                             l
(6)                   (3)           (2)                 Administ.  Administ.  Registry
Officer    Assistant  Supervisor
I            I            i             l           l              
Project      Project      Project      Project      Project       Project       Credit
Officer      Officer      Officer      Officer      Officer       Officer     Supervisors
(Transport)  (Fisheries)  (Small Scale   (Crops)  (Horticulture)  (Livestock)      (8)
Industries)
November 7, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Livestock Development Authority of Tanzania (LIDA)
1.        The Livestock Development Authority of Tanzania (LIDA) was estab-
lished by the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority Act 1974 (The Act).
The Act came into operation in July 1974. The Government's objective in
establishing LIDA was to ensure more effective direction and coordination
of parastatal organizations responsible for a variety of areas in the live-
stock sub-sector.
Functions
2.        The Act indicates that the functions of LIDA will be as follows:
(a) to promote, organize, regulate, control and develop the
production, marketing, processing, and distribution of
livestock, livestock products and by-products;
(b) to improve the output and quality of livestock, livestock
products and by-products;
(c) to promote and undertake market research aimed at improving
the distribution and marketing of livestock, livestock pro-
ducts and by-products within Tanzania and the export of
livestock, livestock products and by-products from Tanzania;
(d) to advise the Government on all matters affecting the
livestock industry;
(e) to promote research on livestock.
3.        The Authority, either directly or through agents, may:
(a) raise, buy and sell livestock, livestock products and
by-products;
(b) establish, organize, maintain, control and manage livestock
markets, holding grounds, ranches and stock-routes, and
provide facilities for the transport of livestock, livestock
products and by-products;
(c) establish, maintain, control and manage abattoirs, freezing
plants, cold stores, and plants for the processing and
manufacture of livestock products and by-products;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d) export livestock, livestock products and by-products;
(e) operate services for the grading of livestock, livestock
products and by-products; and
(f)  produce, manufacture and deal in feeding stuffs;
4.        LIDA's powers are to be exercised subject to the governing authority
of the Minister of Agriculture.
5.        In practice, LIDA's functions will include establishing and develop-
ing large scale dairy farms and marketing and processing activities previous-
ly carried out by other bodies.
Organization and Management (Chart I)
6.        The Act provides for:
(a) a Chairman appointed by the President;
(b) a Managing Director appointed by the Minister; and
(c) not less than seven and not more than ten other
directors appointed by the Minister.
7.        LIDA has been set up as a holding company having five service
divisions: procurement, administration, finance, marketing, and technical
services, and four subsidiary companies. These companies are the Dairy
Farming Corporation (DAFCO), the National Agricultural Corporation (NACO),
Tanzania Dairies Ltd. (TDL) and Tanzania Hides and Skins.
8.        The Act which established LIDA outlined the responsibilities of
the senior staff as follows:
(a) Managing Director - appointed by the Minister, he is to
be chief executive officer of LIDA with overall responsibility
for the management and operations of LIDA. He would direct
.implementation of the dairy farms, heifer breeding unit,
and processing components of the Project;
(b) Procurement Officer - responsible to Managing Director, who
would:
-    purchase appropriate quantities of materials, at the
right time, at the right price, using acceptable
procurement procedures;



ANNEX 8
Page 3
maintain complete documentation records on all procure-
ment transactions and accumulate statistics on purchase
for use by the other divisions;
assist subsidiaries in establishing sound procurement
procedures;
review procurement transactions made with LIDA funds;
maintain bidder lists and catalogues for reference by
the subsidiaries;
encourage and execute bulk purchases on behalf of
subsidiaries when possible; and
conduct training programs for staff members of sub-
sidiaries in purchasing and materials management.
The Manager of the Procurement Services Division is to
represent LIDA in all contract negotiations and delegate
this responsibility as required.
(c) An Administrative Services Officer, responsible to Managing
Director, would:
-    coordinate and supervise the activities of the personnel
officer, LIDA accountant and the office supervisor in
rendering administrative services to LIDA and various
services to subsidiaries;
-    ensure that all legal requirements are observed and that
Government directives are followed;
-    maintain all LIDA regulations and coordinate and
establish a LIDA Operational Procedure Manual for
all departments;
represent all LIDA personnel in industrial relations
matters and serve on various committees of workers;
-    act as the public relations officer for LIDA and
encourage its promotion by selected advertisement
and publications issued to the industry; and
-    ensure that a'l LIDA personnel receive their entitled
employment services such as medical treatment, housing,
transport etc., as established in LIDA regulations.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(d) Finance Officer, responsible to Managing Director would:
-    furnish information to LIDA and the subsidiaries'
Managers regarding the economic operation of the
enterprises and the actual direct management of cash;
-    apply various decision-making techniques, including
statement analysis, break-charts, marginal and
differential costing, cash and discounted cash flows,
etc., to give information that is useful to management;
-    contribute to planning by assisting the subsidiaries in
preparing their budgets (operating, capital, costs,
and control);
-    analyze subsidiary budget submissions and report to
LIDA management with specific recommendations;
-    assist subsidiaries in establishing acceptable budgeting
procedures;
-    conduct cost studies and analysis in the livestock
industries for use by the subsidiaries; and
-    conduct development: training in the fields of management
accounting, costing and budget analysis for staff
members of the subsidiaries.
(e) Marketing Manager, responsible to Managing Director, would:
-    assess markets and potential customer demand;
-    keep market conditions, international and national,
under continuous review;
-    keep price levels of subsidiary companies products
under continuous review in order to ensure that they
are competitive and profitable;
-    ensure adequate control of distribution activities;
-    keep a continuous watch on acceptability of subsidiary's
products and recommend research or investigation in
respect of improvement in quality, new types, or the
correction of differences;
-    keep contact with various Livestock Associations
throughout the world in respect of all matters
concerned with prices and conditions of sale; and



ANNEX 8
Page 5
-    submit to the Managing Director reports of general
economic conditions bearing on current and future
sales of the subsidiary's products.
(f) Manager - Technical Services, would:
-    coordinate and carry into effect appropriate activities
of the planning, livestock husbandry, production
engineering and civil and mechanical engineering sections
of LIDA;
-    as the senior technical officer coordinate all operational
projects developed by LIDA;
-    receive all requests for technical assistance from
subsidiary companies and assign the same to a specific
officer;
-    establish a working schedule and receive monthly progress
reports from the staff of the technical services division;
-    coordinate with the other division managers and prepare
a monthly technical report for the Managing Director of
LIDA and the Board; and
-    review and approve all technical literature released to
the public and for other government units.
Subsidiary Companies
9.        Dairy Farming Corporation (DAFCO) is a subsidiary of LIDA.  Its main
function is the establishment and development of large scale dairy and breeding
ranches. DAFCO has a General Manager appointed by the Board of LIDA. It is
intended that group managers will be appointed to provide overall management
guidance for DAFCO farms. The group managers will report directly to the General
Manager. Each of the farms under a regional manager will have a farm manager
and an assistant farm manager. Separate accounts and management reports will
be maintained for each farm.
10.       Tanzania Dairies Ltd (Chart) TDL is a subsidiary of LIDA and acts
as a holding company; it has the following subsidiaries: Coastal Dairies
Ltd., Northern Dairies Ltd., Mara Dairies Ltd. and Vyamwezi Creameries Ltd.
The main functions of TDL are milk collection, processing and distribution.
TDL has a General Manager appointed by the Board of LIDA responsible for the
overall coordination of the subsidiaries' activities. Each subsidiary
company has a manager. Separate accounts and management reports will be
maintained for each factory.



TANZAINiA
DAIRY DEVELOPMET PROJECT
LILA - Project Related Cash Flow
(Tsh millions)
1       2        3      4        5        6       7        8       9        10      11       12      13       14      15       16      17       18      19       20       21      22       23      24       25       26
TPDB -      -Proceslng oa            3.5    -        -      -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Government Grants for
technical serviees                 3.5     2.8     2.8    2.0      1.5                                                -
Net Cash Surplos - FPrno, etc.       1.7     4.8      6.3    5.1      5.8      5.6      4.1     3.8      5.5     5.2      6.i     5.7      4.4     5.9      5.9     8.4      9.5    11.0    12.0    12.2    11.8   ii.6    11.7    11.6          i.6    12.2
Total iooroea                   8.7      7.6     9.1    7.1      7.3       5.6     4.i      3.8     5.5      5.2     6.o      5.7     4,4      5.9     5.9     8.4      9.5    11.0    12.0    12.2    11.8   ii.6    11.7          U.6    1.6    12.2
Processing Iavestmnt                 3.5
TRLR Lo.n Repeyment for
Proce- sing                       -         .6       .6     .6       .6       .6       .6      .6      .6
Technical cervices                  2.1      2.0      2.0    1.5     1.1
Technical services operstiag
costs                             1.4       .8       .8     .5       .4     -       -        -       -        -        _       -       _        -        -       _        _                _       _        _       _ -               _ -              _
Totalt Use                      7.0      3.4     3.4    2.6      2.1        .6      .6       .6       .6
Annua  Csh Sirplua/Deficit             1.7     4.2      5.7    4.5      5.2      5.0      3.5     3.2      4.9     5.2      6.o     5.7      4.4     5.9      5.9     8.4      9.5    11.0    12.0    12.2    11.8    lo.6    11.7    11.6    11.6    12.2
i      The cosh surpluses culid bh  evatilobl  for distribution to Gi-oeomt.
icirsosry 18, 1975



ANE  9
Table 1
TARZANIA
DAIRY DKOELOPMENT PROJECT
BAGAMOYO Dairyv Farm - 1 Unit of 356 Cows
HERR] PROJECTION
(Rui=ber of AnImals)
FIR]) COM&OSTTION          2                    ~R
___________________       iL   RVP.U   1     2      3      11      S      6       7     8     9-25
O'VS  Abcve 21yesye        i
3lBEINNING OF YEARA                  110     234     239   260    356    356    356      356    356
plus FIRLST CALF !EIFIORS            80      18      79   174      78     78     78      78     78
plus PURCHASED                       100     50
TOTAL MATED                         290     292     318  434    434    434    434       434    434
less DEAThS                          12      19      10   13      13      13     13      13     13
less CULLE                           44      44       48   65      65     65     65      65     65
CN HAND r]   D YEAR         110     234     239     260   356    356    356    356      356    356
1NEIFERS  1-2 years
BEGINNING OF YEAR                     10      81       93   107    147    147    147     147    147
plus PURCHASED                                        86
less DEATHS                           2       2       5      3      4      4      4       4      4
less SALES                                                  26     65    65      65      65    65
OeT HARD END YEAR            10      18     -79    1714   78       78    78      78      78     78
CALVES    0-1 year
CALVE  BOTN                          202      218     238   326    326    326    326     326    326
ALYES BORN                           101      109     119   163   163    163    163    163    163
less DEATHS                           20      16      12    16     16     16     16      16     16
ON HAND EiD YEAR                     81       93    107   147    147   1147    147      147    147
MALES BORN                           101      109     119   163    163    163    163     163    .63
less DEATHS                           20      16      12    16     16    16      16      16     16
L. IL4ND END YEAR                     81      93    107   147    147   147    147       147    147
STEERS
BGINTNING OF PERIOD                                    81   93    107    147    147    147    147
less DEATYS                                            5     6      6      9      9       9      9
(over 2 year neriodj                                 7138    138                       138    138
less SALES                                            76   87    101
ERR]) BUILD-lP
TOTAL HITRD                         1454      504     648   728    728    728    728     728    728
TOTAL ANIMkL UNITS                    292     318     434  434    434    434    434      434    434
SUPPLEMNTARY FEED
COSTS        '000 Tr.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                            8.1     9.3   10.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7  14.7
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKMES              11.1    12.1   14.3  20.3  22.3  26.3   30.4  34.4  34.4
T?RODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIOHIS/yAR      55      164     179     195   270    270    270    270      270    270
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)  1,500   1,800   1,800   1,900 1,900  2,000  2,200  2,400   2,600 2,600
MILK FOR CALVES                     30.3    42.0   35.7   48.9  48.9  48.9   48.9  48.9  148.9
PURCHASES             UNITS
CO'S                  No.             100    50
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.
F1 MEDING HEIFERS   No.
SALZES
EiLK              .000 kgs  82.5  264.9   280.2  334.8  464.1  491.1 545.1  599.1  653.1 653.1
CULL CO S             No.             144     144      48   65      65    65      65       65     65
HEIFERS               No . *                                 26     65    65       65      65     5
STEERS                No.                              76    87    101    138    138      138    138
HMRD COEFFICIENTS
CUlLLING              %               15      15      15     15    15     15       15      15
CALVING RATE          %       CO      70      75      75    75    75      75       75      75
CALF MORTABITTY               35      20      15      10     10    10     10       10      10
ADULT McferoICLITY    i   g  4         4       3       I      3     3      3        3       3
Assumptions for Bagamoyo Sarms:
1. Concentrate feeding ot cows reduced by 50%
due to the farms own qoconuts.
AssumPtions - (Applies to all herd models)
1. No. FULL, LACTATIONS/YEAR - Cows on hand end year x calving rate.
2. MILK SALES: No. FUL'. TACTATIONS/YEAR x MILK DER LACTATION - MILK FOR CALVES.
3. MILK FOR CALVES = 150 kg/CALF BORNI.
4. ALT STEERS ARE ASS[MED TO BE MATURE FOR SALES AT 36 MONTHS.
5. CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS =     LK YELD  - 1,500 + 150 x No. LACTATIONS x PRICE.
6. CALF FEED = No. CALVES END YEAR x 50.
February 12, 1975



ANNEX 9
TANZANIA                                             Table 2
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Iagamsyo Dairy Farm: Investment Costs
Year 1.              Year 2                     Years 1-2                Foreign      Foreign:
Investment Category                     Unit   Unit Cost    Units    coet          Units    Cost        Total Units    Total Co-at         Ex h        Exchan
-   -                                                              (ish~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  000) T
Buildinwsand InstalLatiorr
Manager's House                          No       50.0          1       50.0         -        -              1              50.0             40          20.0
Junior Staff Housing                     No,      16. o         2      32.0          -        -              2              32.0o            40          12.8
Staff Nousing                            No        7.0         14       98.0         -        -             14              98.0             40          39.2
Silage Pit                               No       28. o         1      28.0          _        _              1              28.0             40          11.2
Calf Feeders                             No        B.o          1       8.0                                 I _  1           8. °            4            3.2
Piping                                   KM       17. 0         8     136.0          -        -              8            136.0              75         102.0
Water Troughs                            No         0.5        17        8.5        16        8.0           33              16.5             40            6.6
Fencing                                            2.5         20      50.0         20       50.0          4O             100.0             60           60.0
Subtotal                                                     410_5                ___ 0                          1;_5 __
Irrigation (shallow  wells)              No       590           8      40.0          -        -              8             4°sO             60           24 °
Machinery and Eauipment
Four WheeL Drive Vehicle                 No      5900           1       50.0                                 1              50.C             60           30.0
Motor Bike                               No         9.0         -        -           1        9.0            1               9. C            60            5.4
Tractor          70-80 H.P.              No       85.0          2     170,0          -        -              2            170.0              85         1445.
Tractor         50-60 H.P.               No       67.0          1      67.0          -        -              1              67.0             85          57.0
Plough                                   No        9.0          1       9.           -        _             1                9.0             85           7.7
Harrow-Tine                              No        6.5          1       6.5          -        -              1               6.5             85           5.5
Harrow-Disc                              No       11.0          1       n.0          -        -              1             11.              85            9.4
Cambridge Roller                         No       12.0          1      12.0          -        -              1              12.0             85          10.2
Manure Spreader                          No        4.5          1        4. 5                                1               4.5             85            3.8
Cultivator                               No        6.5          1       6.5          -        -              1               6.5             85            5.5
Rotary Slasher                           No         9.0         2       18.0         -        -              2              18.              85           15.3
Hay Mower                                No        6.0          1       6.0          -        -              1               6.0             85           5.1
Hay Roller                               No       595           1       5.5          -        -              1               5.5             85           4.7
Fora&*-Harvestsr                         No       70.0          1       70.0         -        -              1              70 0             85          59.5
Trailer - 3 Ton                          No       12.0          1      12.0          -        -              1             12.°              85          10.2
Trailer Forage                           No       20.0          2      40.0          -        -              2             40.C              85          3490
Grader Blade                             No        6.0          1       6.0          -        -              1               6.0             85            5.1
lagine and Pump                          No       12.0          4      480           - -                     4             48 5.0            85          4°0.8
Portable Electric Fences                 Set       3.5          2       7.0          -        _              2               7.0             85           6.c
Hammer Mill                              No       10.0          1      10.0          -        -              1              10.0             85            8.5
Churns                                   No        0.25         -        -          90       22.5           90              22.5             85          19.1
Veterinary Equipment & Tools             Set      25.0          1       25.0         -        -              1              25.0             85           21.3
Furniture & Office Equipment             Set      20.0          1      20.0          -        -              1              20.0             85          1795
Spares for Machinery and
Equipment 0 20% Cost                   -         -            -     120.8          -        6.3           -             127.1              -          109.1
Subtotal                                   - _        _      724.8          -      37.8            -             762.6              _          630.7
Livestock Purchasei/                      -                    100     .C.0         50       B0.0          150             100                             -
IncrementaL ODerating Rxpenses           --        -            -     450.9          -        -              -            450.9               J         139
Total Investment                          -        -            -   1,726 2          -      175.5                       1.902.0                       l,0.o
Cows purchased at Tsh 1,000; heifers at Tsh 1,600 (to reflect market price of Tsh 1,LOO plus transport to farm).
See Table 3. Total operating expenses financed in year one.
F 0ates varying between 30% sad 85%.
February 11, 1975



12100010                                                                                                                                                         Table 4
2AIRY DE FMl,rrlYV', PRUJ3CT
BOunossoo  :aIry Farm   Onorrtna        Flo
(Tob 'coo)
rOenelo9rent       1          2         3         4          5         6          7         8         9          20        11        12         13        14         15        16         17        iE         11        20         21         22      23-25
Stn-rce of FYnds
Saleselqp=e   Lotn :Td Grtnt1,71O    394L 3    342.5                                  766.0    070.9      770.h   1,042 9g  1,110.4   1,110.4    i,ti7.4   1,110 4   1,110. ll   ,110.4   1,11. 4   1,110.4   1,110.4   o,0 o.4   1,113.4   1,140.i   1,1104I        1,110.4   1,11 04   1,110 4
Total Sae 2n,131.3  _570.                                         142.5     76°.7      8n0.9    9754   1,042.9   1,10         1.110.4   1, 110.4. lc     1,110. 4   1,110. 10.4   1,110.4   1,ch11o.,4 1,1io.         1,110. 4 1,1.C.4    1, l    ,4 1,110.4   iC4   1,1104       ,O
O-vest-lentfnsl                                      1, 11.3      3        -         -          -         -
01en 1mt0   Cost                                       451.3     4tO.5     111.8      S32.2     S34.2     23822        2. -,   946.3     546.7       5h6.3    946. 3      46.       146.3 0    46.3      546.7     h46.3     546.3      546.3     S46.3      46.3        46.3  47.3         546.3
.aptnal E.ssteoent -/                                            - ___               ,_          nb.0     29.n       38E.0     170.1      50t.0      28G,o9.0                   9     0.0     -         170.0      076.0      13.0      -         -    -               409.0    :19.0    -
lon-ota.aent 1/-                                              -.                              7.8,6o              1:0       o4..o     28 o96.    286,o    .3          c         uC000p               o6a                                                              
-otal U-es                                   2n7 P                5  1.9    172.2      97j.o   1, 132      137,4      17-i  809.3          732.3      12L6346    841.3     0382-     831.3 1-     .3 3    824.3     605.3      146.3     54         46.3      910. 7 20,.          546.3
Annua Cash Oa-pln/eeficlt                 9.                                 0 31    036. 7  l63 6 r08 .                3 005 6  12      s        l O i,l3 ,r     a                                          1 cOO   1 .1    009.1  246.1 505.1  544.1  S64,1  564.1   155.1      361.l     564.1
L. .en RerptFble in 15 Fears nith a 4-ye  grace period F          1 inaeso per 00000.  GA     ant uan is sqla,%al-nta to  oakling -taOotO
which is aith- sehlf-fi.-aad ar  sgratt frea  GOuvaroat t4tltugh LIDA4 sd DF006,
Oyr0 23, 1975



ANNEX 9
TARNAtl                                                       Table 3
DAIRY DFVE         PRMENTPOJECT
Baga.oyO  Dairy Farm:  Sales and Operating Expenaca
(Tash00
Before      ----------         __----------- Year ------------------------------------
Development P/j   1          2    __                 I4         5           6           7          8 - 25
Salea 
Cull Cows                                             44o.I      44.o         48.o       65.0        65.0       65.o        65.o       65.0
Heifers                                                                                  3    6.4    91.0       91.0        91.0       91.0
Steers                                                            -           76.0       87.0       101.0      i38.0       138.0      138.0
Mtilk                                                331.1      350i 3--8.              580.1       613.9      681.4       748.9      816.4
Total Sales                                   375.1      394.3_          542.5   768.5      870.9       975-4    1.042.9    1110.4
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Wages 
Manager                                               39.6       39.6         39.6       39.6
Assistant Manager                                     20.7       20.7         20.7       20.7
Field Assistants/Clerks                                8.2        4.2          8.2        8.6
Senior Milkers                                         4. -    4.2             8.4        8.4
Milkers                                               26.6       26.6         60.8       68.4
Milk Recorders                                         3.3         3.3         6.6        6.6
Calf Attendants                                        3.3        3.3          3.3        3.3  __----                               ,  _
Feeders                                                3.1        6.2          6.2        6.2
Herdsmen                                               3.3         3.3         3.3         3.3
Drivers                                              1i.8        18.8         18.8       i8.8
Mechanics                                              8.2        P.3          6.2        8.2
Skilled Labor                                          9.4        9.4          9.4        9.4
Unskilled Labor                                       12.4       12.4         12.4        12.4-
Watchmen                                               3.1         6.2         6.2         6.2
Subtotal                                      164.2      170.4        212.1      219.7)                         --        :    - 
Livestock Husbandry
Veterinary & Drags 3/                                 10.5        ii.4        15.6        15.6       15.6        15.6       15.6        i5.6
Artificial Issesdnation j/                             6.1         6.1         6.7         9.1        9.1         9.1        9.1         9.1
hygiene  & Miscellaneous 2/                            1.0         1.1         1.2         1.6         i.6        1.6        i.6         I.6
Calf Feeds i/                                           8.1        9.3        10.7        14.7       14.7        14.7       14.7        14.7
Concentrates 7/                                       11.1       .12.1        14.3        20.3       22.3        26.3       30.4        34.4
Minerals & Lickzsg                                      2.8        3.0          4.1        4.i         4.1        4.i        4.1         4.1
Subtotal                                       39.6        43.0        52.6        65.4       67.4        71.4       75.5        79.5
Crop & Pasture 2/
Maize Silage                                            4.2
Hay                                                    16.81          __                                          _
Subtotal                                       21.
Fel, Lubricants & Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants LO/                                69.5
Motor Bike Allowance 11                                 3.0
R3epairs-Vehicles Z/Y                                  57. 4
- Tractors/Engine   )                                       1
-  Other Machinery                                     33.9
-  Fencing/Water Supply )                              42.3
-  Other Fixed Assets   )
Small Tools                                             5 0
Subtotal                                      211.1       211.1       211.1       211.i      211.1       211.1      Dii.1      211.1
Miscellaneous Accounts  /1                                            5 15.0  15.0  15.0                                       15.0       15.0
Total Operating Expenses                                450.9      460.5       511.8       532.2       534.2      538.2       542.3      546.3
Net Incremental Operating Incnme                        (75.8)     (66.2)        30.7      236.3       336.7      437.2       500.6      564.i
1/   ales:.  Cull Cows e Tsh 1,000
Heifers e Tsh 1,400
Steers e Tsh 1,000
Milk e Tsh 1.25
2/  Salaries and Wages:  Based on parastatal rates, including lesve paW, night allowance, provident fund and staff endowsment scheaes.
:/  Vecerinary and Drugs:  Based on all cattle receiving two itocu:aticns per year against FMD; annual inoculations against blackquarter
and Antirax; regalar treatment against internal parasites; and other ailments. Young heifers will be vaccinated against brucellosis.
Cost: Tsh 30 Sh per A.U. p.a.
3/ Artificial Inseminations:  Based on the total number of cows mated. e Tah 20 per nw.
2/ Hygiene and Miscelluneous:  Covers cost of cleaning materiSls, milXing machine rubber replaceent parts and small miscellaneous items.
2/ Calf Feeds:  Based on number of calves at the end of the year s,ultiPlial by fifty e Tsh 40 per calf.
2/ Concentrates:  Calculated on the following basis:  Milk Yield  i2) __gi5          (kes) + 150 a Na. Lactations x Price
d/ Minerals and Licks:  Based on a mixture of salt; bonemeeal  nd rdoexs 1s  being available thro4ghout the year.
/      ionsand Pastures:  Based on irrigated maize for silsge and m ole  graos pasture (5 years) and.maize for silage
(5th year) in rotation with maize as the nurse crop.  Expeated aunnal yieldn are as follows:
Continuous maize (dOuble. crcpped) - 200 acres.@ 20 tonp/acre
Rotation naize (single cropped) - 30 acres at 15 tons/acre
1O/  Fuel  and lubricants:  Based on one tractor operating 1,50D hours per year with an average fuel consusmption of one liter per hour;
One lmndrover operating 36,000 km per year with an average fuel oat' nuo ptian of 0.25 *liter per-ls; one water pomp engine at Tsh 8,ooo
per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours per year withsn an osers  rfal consomption of 4 liters per hour; and lubricats at 12.5 percent
of fuel cast.
Motor Bike Allowance:  Covers mileage allowance paid to Assistanl; Manager for use of motor bike on fars activities.
Re/ neirs:  Based on standard estimates and experience of large scale farms.
13/ Miscellaneous Accounts: Covers costs of telephone, postage, stationey, air travel uniforms and miscellaneous administrative accounts.
/   Assumptian:  Before development sales and casts were epproxinately equal; all net revenue thas represe-ta innrenental revenue to the farm.
February 11, 1975



ANNX 9
Table 5
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IWAMBI Dairy Farm - 1 Unit of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
---                                    -------'
IEMD COYPOSITION            B--
I t~V'J?.  1       2      3      4       5      6        7     8     9-25
GOVS  abcve 21 years
BEGINrIllG OF Y'AR                  158      195    182     199    293    306      353   356    356
plus FIRST CAL,F hEIFlRS            83       30     60     159      80    125      81    78      78
plus P'URCHASED
TOTAL NATED                         241     225    242     358    373    431      4314  434    434
less DEATHS                         10        9      7      11      11     13      13    13      13
less CU-LED                         36       34      36      54     56     65       65    65     65
CN HAND END YEAR            158    195      182    199     293    306    353      356   356    356
EErIFERS   1-2 years
BEGINNING OF YEAR                     31      63     64       82    129    134      155   157    157
plus PURCHASED                                     100
less DEATHS                          1        3      5       2       4      4       5      5      5
less SALES                                                                 49      72    74      74
ON HAND ND YEAR              83     30       60    159      80    125      81      78    78      78
CALVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORN                     .   156      158    182     286    298    344      348   348    348
-ZMALES BOCN                          78      75    91      143    149    172      174   174    174
less DEATHS                          15      15      9       14     15     17      17    17      17
ON HAND END YEAR             31     63       64     82     129    134    155      157   157    157
MALES BORN                            78      79     91     143    149    172      174   174    174
less DEATHS                         15       1       9      114    1       17      17    17      17
ON HAND END YEAR             40      63      6      82     129    13      155     157   157    157
STEERS
BEGINNING OF PEIOD                            40     63      64      82    129     134   155    157
less DEATHS                                   4      6        6      6      8        8    10     10
(over 2 year ?criod)
less SALES                   34              36     57      58      76    121     126   145    147
HERD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HERD                          351      370    522     631    699    744      748   748    748
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS                  225      242    358     373    431    434      434   434    434
SUPPLE1ENTARY FEED
COSTS      ('000 T.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                          6.3      6.4     8.2    12.9  13.4   15.5  15.7   15.7   15.7
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS            13.3    17.1    24.5   52.7   69.8   88.8   97.3   109.9  109.9
PRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR      95   127       127    149     234    245    282      282    282    282
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)   1,200 1,600   1,800   2,000  2,400   2,800  3,000  3,200  3,500  3,500
MILK FOR CALVES                     23.4    23.7    27.3   42.9   44.7  51.6   52.2   52.2  52.2
PURCHASES              UNITS
COWiS                  No.
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.
Fl BREEDING HEIFERS   No.                            100
SALES
MILK               .000 kgp  114.0  179.8  204.9  270.7  518.7  641.3  794.4   906.6 934.8  934.8
CULL COIS              No.           36        34     36     54      56      65     65    65     65
HEIFERS                N.o.                                                  49     72    74      74
STEERS                 No.           34        36     57     58      76    121    126   145    147
HEPD COEFFICIENTS
CULLLNG                g             15       15      15     15      15      15     15    15     15
CALVING RATE           %       60    65        70     75     80      80      80     80    80      80
CALF MORTAI.ITY        %       30    20       15      10     10      10      10     10    10      10
ADULT MORTALITY        %              4         4      3      3        3      3      3     3       3
February 12, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELPMIET PROJECT
Iwambi Dairy Fns.: Investment Costs
(Tab '000)
Years 1-3       Foreign     Foreign
Year 1         Year 2          Year 3         Total   Total    Exchange    Exchange
Investment Category                       Unit    Unit Cost    Units   Cost    Units  Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost                       Tsh '000
Buildings and Installations
Spray Race                                 No         22.0        1       22.0      -     -                         1       22.0      40            8.8
Silage Pit                                 No         28.0        1       28.0     _                  _             1       28.0      4o           11.2
Calf Feeders                               No          8.0        1        8.0      -     -        _        _       1        8.0      4o            3.2
Piping                                      EKM       17.0        3      136.O      -     -        -        -       8      136.0      75          102.0
Water Troughs                               No         0.5       33       16.5      -     -        -        -      33       16.5      40            6.6
Fencing                                     KM         2.5       30       75.0      -     -        -        -      30       75.0      60           45.O
Subtotal                           -          -          -      285.5     -     -         -       _        -     285.5        -         176.8
Machinery and Equipment
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                    No        50.0        I       50.0      -     -         _       _        1      50.0      60           30.0
Motor Bike                                  No         9. 0       1        9.0      -     -         _       _        1       9.0      60            5.4
Tractor       50-60- H.P.                   No        67 0        '      134.0         -      -                     2      134.0      85          113.9
Tractor       70-80- H.P.                   No        850         I      85.0      -     -        _        _       1       85.0      85           72.3
Plough                                      No         9.0        1        9.0      -     - _         _             1        9.0      85            7.7
Harrow - Tine                               No         6.5       :-        6.5      -     -        _        _       1        6.5      85            5.5
Harrow Disc                                 No        11.0                11.0      -     -         -       -       1       11.0       85           9.4
Cambridge Roller                            No        12. O               12.0      -     -        -        _       1       12 .0     85           10.2
Maize Planter                               No        17.0                17.0      _     _        _        _        1      17.0      85           14.5
Seed Drill                                 No         180                 18.O      -     -        -        -       1       18.0°     85           15.3
Weed Sprayer                                No         8                   8.0                                      I _  _  -  1  8.0  85           6.8
Fertilizer Spreader                        No          4.5        I        4.5      -     -        -        -       1        4.5      85            3.8
Cultivator                                 No          6.5        I        6.5     -      _        _        -       1        6.5      85            5.5
Rotary Slasher                              No         9.0       .        9.0      -     -        -        -       1        9.0      85            7.7
Hay Mower                                   No         6.0       1.        6.0        _      _        _             1        6.0      85            5.1
Hay Rake                                    No         5.5       3.        5.5      -     -         -       -       1        5.5      85            4.7
Hay Baler                                   No        50.0       1]       50.o      -     -         -       -       1       50.0      85           42.5
Forage Harvester                            No        70.o       1.       70.0      -     -        -        -       1       70.0      85           59.5
Trailer 3 Ton                               No        12.0 o      .       12.0      -     -        -        -       1       12.0      85           10.2
Trailer Forage                             No         20.0        5      100.0      -     -        -        -       5      100.0      85           85.0
Grader Blade                               No          6.0        1        6.0      -     -        -        -       1        6.0      85            5.1
Engine & Pump                              No         12.0               24.O      -     -        -        -       2       24.0      85           20.4
Portable Electric Fences                    Set        3.5        1        3.5      -     -        -        -       1        3.5      85            3-0
Hammer Mill                                 No        10.0        1       10.0      -     -        -        -       1       10.0      85            8.5
Churns                                      No         0.25      9C       22.5      -     -        -        -      90       22.5      85           19.1
Veterinary Equipment & Tools                Set       25.o        1       25.o      -     -        -        -       1       25.0      85           21.3
Furniture & Office Equipment                Set       20.0        1       20.0      _     _        _        -       1       20.0      85           17.0
Spares for Machinery and Equipment
Q   20% Cost                                        1-          -       46.8     -      -        -        -       -     146.8       20          121.9
Subtotal                                      -         -    1,166.3                                           1,166.3        -         731.1
Livestock, Purchase A/                     No.         1.6        -        -        -     -        100.0   160.0    -      160.0       -
Incremental Operating Expenses/              _         -          -      431.7            _        -        -       -     431.7       1           130.5
Total Investment                             -         -          -    1,883.5      _     _                160.0    -  2,043.5         _.       1038.6
H/ eifers purchased at Tsh 1,600 (Table 2, Note 1)
i/ See Table 7. Total operating expenses financed in Year One.
J/ 0 Rates varying between 30% and 85%.
February 11, 1975



ANNO 9
Table S
TA1122 IA
DAIRY D042vLOPW22T PROJ4CT
I.hbi Dli F.        I,wrntsl Cash FlI-
Before
Development       1         2         3         4         5        6          7        8         9         2O        11        12        13        i4        15        16        17        it1       19        20        21        22      23 25
ootree of inods
sales                                                294.5    322.1      31.4   72<.4    ?33.b  1,247.6  1,425.1  1,482.1  1,                  484.1 .   i,4..i  1, L84.   1,484.1   i,484.i   144.1   1,484.1   1,1464.1 I,484.i  1,44.1   1,484.1  1,ll81.1  1,484.0   1,48h.1
leolonoeno Loon sod Gron-t                          255.5     -         16a.,     -                            -
Total Sooroco                              2178.      326_.  551.4       7,2.4    933.6  1,247.6  1,425.1  1,482.1  1,444.1  1,484.1  1,484.1  1,1484.1  1,424.1  1,484.1  1,484.1  1.484.1  1,484.1  1,484.1  1,484.1   1.484.1  1.484.1  1,484.1   1,484.1
Uses of 2hmds
Snveoeveot oott                                    1,451.6    -         162.0
ftoontiog Coot                                      L11.7    431.o      4,i      417.4    205.1       513.8     5'7.5    552.1      52.1       2.1     5,2.1    S52.1    552.1    552.1    552.1    552.1    552.1    '52.1           552.1     512.1     552.1       51.1    552.1
Capiol Seplnoeot                                     -        -         -         -          50.7 0    864               22.5b      S                  38.5      -         50.0     -         256.0    264.5       90.5     -                   -         1, 0.5    256.0     -
1o-  Octtsot 24/                                     _        _         -         _         316.0    116.0    316.0    316.0    216.1        ?D6.        6         6. 0     10. 0    216.1    316.0  6            -         -         -         -         -         - _
Total Uoes                                 1884.2     kb.o    611.01   82.1.    871.1   1111.3         es5.5   1124.1    915.1    868.1   5748.6    868.1    018.1    868.1   1124.1    816.6    682.1    552.1    552.1    552.2                 982.6    804.1    552.1
A--Il Cooh S2rplos/oefiolt                           29h.8   (1092.)    '13.)    212.0       59.5    126.3    569.6    228.0    566.0    616.o    235.s    61o.0    566.0    616.3             36 .0    667.5    882.0    932.0    932.0    932.0    5D1.3    676.2    932.0
I/ Leo.  R-pa, ablo in 15 years with a 4-Year gr9ee 1o-it2 @ 8~     Jt-oroi per oornao. Crona t u i sqot-aloot to -sakit0
-ajital ehioh Is eith-r -alf-fi-onond oragraot from G2ver=ent a4to-gh LIU zod 1DACO,
May 23, 1975



ANNEX 9
TANZANIA                                                       Table 7
DAIRY DEVELOPM2NT PROJECT
Iwambi Dairy Farm: Sales and Operating Expenses
(Tsh ' 000
Before                                                       Year ----------__--____________-___________
Development L/  1            2         3          4          5         6          7         8          9-25
Sales i/
Cull cows                                            36.0       34.0      36.o       54.0       56.0      65.0       65.0      65.0       65.0
Heifers                                               -          ..        -     -               -        68.6      100.8     103.6      103.6
Steers                                               34.0       36.o      57.0       58.0      76.o      121.0      126.0     145.0      147.0
Milk                                                224.8      256.1     338.4      648.4     8o0.6      993.0   1,133.3  1.168.5   1,168.5
Total Sales                                294.8     326.1      431.4     760.4      933.6   1,247.6   1,425.1   1,482.1   1,484.2.
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages 2/
Manager                                              39.6 \
Assistant Manager                                    20.7
Field Assistant/Clark                                16.4
Milkers                                              11.4
Calf Attendant                                        3 3
Herdsmen                                             13.2 2
Drivers                                              18.8
Mechanic                                               8.2
Skilled Labor                                         9.4
Unskilled Labor                                      12 4
Watclsmen                                              6.2
Subtotal                                   159.6    159.6       159.6    159.6       159.6     159.6      159.6      159.6     159.6
Livestock Husbandry:
Veterinary & Drugs 3/                                  8.1       8.7       12.9       13.4      15.5       15.6      15.6       15.6       15.6
Artificial Insemination 4/                             5.1       4.7        5.1        7.5       7.8        9.1       9.1        9.1        9.1
Hygiene and Miscellaneous 5/                           0.8       0.8        0.9        1.4       1.5        1.7       1.7        1.7        1.7
Calf Feed  i/                                          6.3       6.4        8.2       12.9      13.4       15.5      15.7       15.7       15.7
Concentrates 7/                                       13.3      17,1       24.5       52.7      69.8       88.8      97.3      109.9      109.9
Minerals and Licks §/                                  2.1        2.3       3.4       3.5        4.1        4.1.       4.1       4.1        4.1
Subtotal                                    35.7       40.0      55.0       91.4      112.1     134.8    143.5       156.1      156.1
Crop and Pasture 2/
Wheat                                                 10 2
Maize Silage                                           4.2                                                                                    v
lay                                                   16.8
Subtotal                                    31.2)
Fuel  Lubricants and Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants L/                                73.8
Motor ;ike Allowance L/                                2.5
Repairs-Vehicles Lai/)                                53.8
- Transport/Engine )
-  Other Machinery                                    46.5\
- Fencing/Water Supply )                               8.6
-  Other Fixed Assets
Smell Tools                                            5.0
Subtotal                                    190.2)
Miscellaneous Accounts                                15.0       15.0       15.0      15.0       15.0       15.0      15.0       15.0      15.0
Total Operating Expenses                             431.7      436.o     451.0      487.4      508.1     530.8      539.5      552.1     552.1
Net Operating Income                    0.0          (136.9)   (109.9)    (19.6)    273.0       425.5      716.5     885.6      930.0     930.0
1/  Sales:  Cull Cows B Tsh 1,000
aeifers @ Tsh 1,400
Steers @ Tsh 1,000
Milk B Tsh 1.25
i/ Salaries and Wages: Based on parastatsl rates, including leave pay, night allowence, Provident Fund and Staff Endowment Schemes.
2/ Veterinary and Drugs:  Based on all cattle receiving two inoculations per year against FND; annual inoculations against blackquarter and antbrax;
regular treatment against internal parasites; and other ailments. Young heifers will be vaccinated against brucellosis.
/ Artificial Inseminations: Based on the total number of cows mated.
H/ Hygiene and Miscellaneous: Covers cost of cleaning materials, milking machine rubber replacement parts and small miscellaneous items.
|   Calf Feeds:  Based on number of calves at the end of the year multiplied by fifty (coefficient).
L   Concentrates:  Calculated on the following basis:  Mi                              ss) + 150 x No. Lactations x Price
#/ Minerals and Licks: Based on a mixture of salt, bonemeal and minerals being available throughout the year.
2/ Crop  and Pasture:  Based on irrigated maize for Silage and Rhodes grass pasture (5 years) and maize for Silage (5th year) in rotation with maize
as the nurse crop. Expected animal yields are as follows: Continuous maize (double cropped) - 200 acres B 20 tons/acre.
Rotation maize (singl-e cropped) - 30 acres at 15 tons/acre.
Lo/  Fuel and Lubricants:  Based on one tractor operating 1,500 hours per year with an average fuel consumptioni of one liter per hour; one landrover
operating 36,000 km per year with an average fuel consumption of 0.25 liter per ks; one water pump engine at Tsh 8,000 per year; a generator
operating 3,650 hours per year with an average fuel consumption of 4 liters per hour; and lubricants at 12.5 percent of fuel cost.
11' Motor Bike Allowance: Covers mileage allowance paid to Assistant Manager for use of motor bike on farm activities.
/   Repairs:  Based on standard estimates and experience of large scale farms.
/   Miscellaneous Accounts:  Covers costs of telephone, postage, stationery, air travel,uniforms and miscellaneous administrative accounts.
L/   Before development net revenue assumed to be 0 or less.
February 11, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 9
TANZANTIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KITULO Dairy Farm - 1 Unit of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
HERD COMPOSITION 1-                              -         Y 
_____________________  1  2  3         5      6       7     8     9-25
CO'GW3  above 2½ years
'T GIXNTIG OF YEAR        I    1  140    306    356   356   356   356   356   356   356
Dlus FIRST CAL.F -EDIFERS      I  233    128       78    78    78    78    78    78    78
pLus PURCHASED
TOTAL MATED                        373    434    434   434   434   434   434    434  -434
less DEATHS                         11      13     13    13    13    13    13    13    13
less CULLED                         56      65      65    65    65    65    65    65    65
ON HAND END YEAR            1140   306    356    356   356   356   356   356   356   356
hETFERS  1-2 years
BEGINNING OF YEAR                   160    127    157    157   157   157   157   157   157
plus PURCHASED
less DEATHS                          5       4      5      5      5      5      5      5      5
less SALES                          27      45      74    74    74    74    74    74    74
CN hND END YEAR             233   128      78      78    78    78    78    78    78    78
CALVES   0-1 year
CALVES BORN                         298    348    348   348   348   348   348   348   348
Yf1MATLES BORTN                     149    174    174   174   174   174   174   174   174
less DZATHS                         22      17      17    17    17    17    17    17    17
ON HAND END YEAR            160   127    157    157   157    157   157    157   157   157
MALES BORN                          149    174    174   174   174   174    174   174   174
less DEATHS                         22      17     17    17    17    17    17    17    17
ON HAND END YEAR            160   127    157    157   157   157   157   157   157   157
STEERS                                       160    127   157    157-  157   157   157   157
BEGINNING OF PERIOD
less DEATHS                                 10       8    10      10    10      10,   10    10
(over 2 year eariod)
less SALES                  200            150    119    147   147  1147   147   147   147
ERD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HERD                          688     748    748   748   748   748    748   748   748
TOTAL ANIM4AL UNITS                 434     434    434   434    434   434    434   434   434
SUPPLEMENTARY FEED
COSTS      ('000 T.Sh .)
CALF FEEDS                         12.7   15.7  15.7   15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7
CONCENTRATE tOR HILKERS            77.1   98.3  106.8  115.4 123.9  132.5  132.5 132.5  132.5
PRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR    112    245    285    285   285   285   285    285   285   285
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)   3,00  3,000  3, OO   3,400 3,600  3,800 4,000 4,000 4,000  4,000
MILK FOR CALVES                    44,7   52.2  52.2   52.2  52.2  52.2  52.2  52.2  52.2
PUERCASES            UNITS
COWS                 No.
FIRST CALF EIFERS    No.
Fl BREEDING HEIFERS  No.
SALES
ILK                O .000kg2336.  690.3   859.8  916.8  973.8  1030.8 1087.8  1087.8 1087.&1087.8
CULL COW4S           No.           56        65    65   65       65    65      65      65   65
IEIFERS              No. -         27        45    74   74       74    74    74        74   74
STEERS                 No. *      200       150   119   147    147   147    147       147  147
HERD COEFFICIENTS
C7ULLIU4G            %          i 15         15    20   20       20    20      20      20
CALVING RATE         r       80   80        80    80   80        80    80    80        80
CALF MORTATTTY        %      15   15         10    10   10       10     10    10       10
ADULT MORTALITY     %        3     3         3     3    3        3      3      3       3
February 12, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KITULO DAIRY FARM - INVESTMENT COST
(Tsh '000)
Year 1             Year 2                   Years 1-2               Foreign       Foreign
Investment Category                   Unit    Unit Cost       Units    Cost       Units    Cost      Total Units    Total Cost       Exchange       Exchange
Tsh '000
Building and Installation
Piping                             KM        16.o          15      240.0        - o        .          15         240.0             75            180.0
Water Troughs                      No         0.5          19        9.5       19       9.5           38           19.0            40              7.6
Fencing                            KM         2.5          30       75.0       30      75.0           60          150.0            60             90.0
Calf Feeders                       No         8.o           1        8.0        -       -.0            1            8.o            4o              3.2
Subtotal                                                      332.5               84.5                      417.0                           280.8
Machinery & Equipment
Motor Bike                         No         9.0           1        9.0        -       -              1            9.0            60              5.4
Tractor 70-80 H.P.                 No        85.0           2      170.0        -       -              2          170.0            85            144.5
Tractor 50-60 H.P.                 No       67.0            1       67.0        -       -              1           67.0            85             57.0
Plough                             No         9.0           1        9.0        -       -              1            9.0            85              7.7
Harrow                             No        11.0           1       11.0        -                      1           ll.G            85              9.4
Cambridge Roller                   No        12.0           1       12.0        -       -              1           12.0            85             10.2
Seed Drill                         No       20.0            1       20.0        -       -              1           20.0            85             17.0
Fertilizer Spreader                No         5.0           1        5.0        -       -              1            5.0            85              4.3
Hay Mower                          No         5.5           1        5.5        -       -              1            5.5            85              4.7
Hay Rake                           No         5.0           1        5.0        -       -              1            5.0            85              4.3
Hay Baler                          No        42.o           1       42.0        -       -              1           42.0             85            35.7
Trailer                            No        15.0           2       30.0        -       -              2           30.0            85             25.5
Hammer Mill                        No        10.0           -          -        1      10              1           10.0             85             8.5
Milking Machine                    No       100.0           1      100.0                               1          100.0            85             85.0
Churns                             No         0-3         130       39.0    130        39.0          260           78.o            85             66.3
Portable Electric Fences           Set        3.5           -          -        3      10.5            3           10.5            85              8.9
Veterinary Equipment               Set       20.0           -          -        1      20.0            1           20.0            85             17.0
and Tools
Furniture and Office Equipment    Set        15.o           -          -        1      15.0            1           15.0            85             12.8
Spares for Machinery and
Equipment @  20% Cost                  -        -             -      104.9        -      18.9            -          123.8              -           104.8
Subtotal                       -         -             -      629.4        -     113.4            -          742.8             -
Incremental Operating
Expenses 1/                            -        -             -      496.0        -       -                         496.0                          189.4
Total Investment               -         -             -   1,457.9         -     197.9            -       1,655.8               -         1,099.2
j See Table 11. Total operating expenses financed in Year One.
2   @  Rates varying between 30% and 85%.
F
February 11, 1975



A7NNEi 9
Table 12
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
gltulo Dairy 0crm. Icaprtwentel 0e4 Plow,
t                IveIopmel    1       3          4          5         6          7         8          9           '        11         12        13         14        15         16         17         1)        19         20         21         22      23 25
011                                                 1,15 6.7   1,352.8   1,433.6   1,532.9   1,604.1   1,675.4   i,675.49_1.C77.4      1,6o7.4   1,C75d.    1,675.4    1,675.4  -1,675.4  1,675 .4   1,7_5.4
Ze- e1,17ryt Lo ao3 - raot                           1,457.9     197.9      -         -          -         -                    _           _         _          _         _          _         _          _          _         _          _          _          _         _           _       _ 7
Totel 8--rces                                2,6i4.6   1,550.7   1,433.6   1.,53.9   1,604.1   1,675.4   i.675.46.
Invao.r.enl C-st                             ?61.9     197.9      -
-,-i- C-                                  Wr:~~~~~~~960  47.57    673.4  691.9      692).5    699.c      707.6)
r-, o.a4                                                                                                     202l_-eenl  -  6  -  6  6  2.5  -  82.5  -  -        354.5       35.5     -          -          72.0      202.5       10.5     -          -           -        354.5       107.5   -
ilmo I  -l-rent 1/                                      -          -         -         -         2852.0     055.0      050.4    33310       7o        253.3       P9.5      253.3      283.0     988.0         .0                       -         -       -        -        -           -        -
T0120 U-0                                    1,457.9     345.6      63.4      681.9   ?siL    1,129.7       933.6    0,018.1      935.6      935.6   1,290.1       971.1     935.6      935.6   1,0-7.6      910.1     718.1      707.6      07.6       707.6  4,52.1         615.1      707.6
Arri,, C-2h ' r37U,/lef0012                           1,156.7      705.1     760.2      551.0     385.36    549.      7 739.87 67.3          739,8    7Y9.d       385.3      704.3    739.8       739.3     667.5      765.3      957.3     967.5      967.8       967.8    613.3       860.3       967.8
L/ Ioanrepayable iL  15 y-are 1th,   4-yea-  grace pelOod nO, b 5/22 RotCxect PCX 9-,1,1,  5Stt34  e923=t Re e"4y94ent LC vq;h4Aa
capital which i5 either eelf-fi-aced ora grant f0o= Oncexneat through LIMA and DAICD.
HaTy 23, 1975



TAN !WT                            ANNR! 9
TAlt__lL                                           Table 11
DAIRY DIVXLORtD  PROJECT
Yietls Dairy Fare:  Inc-rmental Sales and Operating Expenses
(Tsh  000)
Beore                                                     - Year ------------------------
Deve1                        2    __ 2               4 .         5          6           7-25
Cell Cows                                              56.0        65.0       65.0        65.o       65.0         65.0        65.o
Hefers                                                 37.8        63.0      103.6       103.6      103.6        1o3.6       103.6
Steers                                                200.0       150.0      119.0       147.0      147.0        147.0       147.0
Milk                                                  862.9    1,074.8   1,16_    1,217.3    1,288.5           1,359.8     1,359.8
Total Soles                                  1,156.7    1,352.8    1,433.6    1,532.9    i,60o.1       1,675.4     1,675.4
Operating Expenses
Salaries & wages j/
Ma-ager                                                 50.0
Field Assist - Dairy                                    8.2
Field Aeslotont - Pasture                               8.2 2
Clerk                                                   8.2
Trsator Drivers                                        14.1   ___
Milkers                                                12.6:
CaLf Attendant                                          3.2
Serdane.                                               12.8
General Labor                                          12.4
Watchemn                                                3.1,
Subtotal                                      132.8      132.8       132.8      132.8       132.8      132.8        132.8
Liveotock Huobsndry
Veterinary & Dregs 2/                                  -          15.6       15.6        15.6       i5.6        15.6        15.6
Artificial Insemination 4                              -           7.8        9.1         9.1        9.1         9.1         9.1
Hygiene & Miscellaneous                                -           1.5        1.7         1.7        1.7         1.7         1.7
Calf Feeds                                                        12.7       15.7        15.7       15.7        15.7        15.7
Cnoce.trotee  /                                        -          77.1       98.3       io6.8    ll15.4        123.9       132.5
Minerals & Licks                                                   4 -  6.1 . 1 6         4,1        4 .1        4.1         4.1
Subtotal                                        -        118.8      144.5       153.0       16i.6      170.1        178.7
Crap & Pasture 2/
Pasture Seed                                         100.0        17.8\
- Oat aced                                              18.0        3.2
Planting Fertili-er                                   88.o        31.3  ___
Maictenance Fertilizer                                 -         186.61
Baling  To-e                                           3.6        3.6J
Subtltei                                     209.6      242.5       242.5      242.5       242.5      242.5        242.5
Fuel. Lubricants & Repair.
Fuel end Lubriciats  l/                               44.25
Motor Bike Allowance II/                               3.5
Hired Lend Sover                                      16.8
Pepaire - Vehicles
-  Tractors/Engine                                    59.3
-  Other Machinery
- Milking eachine                                      2.5
F Pencing/Water Supply                                 4.5
-  Othi r fined asoelt                                 2.8
Small Tools                                            5. o
Subtotal                                     138.6      138.6       138.6      138.6       138.6      138.6        138.6
Miscelleneoua Accunto  3/                               15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0        15.0
Total Operating Expenses                               496.0       647.7      673.4       68.L9      690.5       699.0       707.6
Net Operatiag Income                       0.0         662.7       705.1      760.2       851.0      913.6       976.4       967.8
7/ Sales; Cull Cows @ Tab 1,000
Heifers @ Tsh 1,400
StCero H Tah 1,000
Silk e Tah 1.25
2/ _salaries and Tageo; Based on paristatiL rates, including leav,I peJ, alight allowance, provident fund and staff endowaent schemes.
;2/ Veteri7fi and Drugo: Posed an aLl cattle receiving two inocelaticnas per year againct FMD; annual inoculations against blackquarter
and A t hrc a m;   re g art reatment B as g ainsth    interLnalparasites;  and   other  ailments.     Young  heiters   will  be   vacinated    against bt ecellosi.
6/  Atifcia Inamirtiao:   ooedan he  ata  number a! coma mated.
S/   ygiene ands Mcelanaus: o Caversveast a! hcleandig materials, milli: machine rubber replacement parts and small miaceflneus itma.
CalfFees:   aoe  annumbr a  cavesot heand a! the year multiplIedj by fifty/Coefficient.
1Z/ Cancentrates:  Calculated on the faloawing basis;  MiLk YieLd  bs)-5_ 100 (kgs) + 150 x No. Lactations x Price
/ Minerlal and Licks:  Based on a mixture o  saLtc ; bao-meal sd lines al, being available thraighaut the year.
2 r/ cs and Pastures,  Based on irrigated meiee tar silage and Rhadea g-ans pasture (5 years) and,maiZe for silage
(th yenr) in rotation with maize as the nurse crap. Expected sort al yielda are ao follows:
Continuoua   maize (double cropped) - 200 acres.P 20 tums/acre
Batation maize (single  -rop;ed) - 30 acres at 15 tens/occe
LO/ Field and Lubricants: Based on one trdtor operating 1,50) hoa.rs per year with an average fuel consumpltion ot one liter per hour;
oae landrover operating 36,000 km per year with an average fue4 CeAsumption of 0.25 liter parkh; one water pump engine at Tab 8,000
per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours per year with a          an e-sge  Js l consumption of 4 liters per hoer; and lubricants at 12.5 percent
aT fuel east.
/   Motor Bike Allowance:  C-vera mileage allowance paid to Assist,nls M-sgor for ase of rotor bike on farm activities.
/   epairs:  Based on standard satimites and experience of large scale farms.
}3/ Hiacellanecus Accounts; Covers costs Oa telephone, postage, statiahey, air travel uniforms and miscellaneous adminiatrative accounts.
fl_/ Reface development net dairy revenue asosmed to be 0 or less.
Ferb-ary 12, 1975



ANNEX9
Table 13
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPtlENT PROJECT
NGERINGEE Dairy Farm Unit 1 - 1 Unit of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
_ _ R_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y  E A R S  1-25
E0RD COCM?OSITION                                            YE- .
_______________________ .     T.        1       2      3      4       5      6       7     8   9-25
O'wS above 2½s years
?- GINNINOG OF YEAR                127     205    294     275    288    307    327    349   356
ulus ,ST CALF HEIFES              126     159     67     104    116    123    132    121    114
olus PUECHASED
TOTAL MATED                       253     364   361      379    404    430    459    470    470
less DEATS                         10      15     14       15     16     17     18     19    19
less CU-L'L                        38      55    72        76    81      86     92     95     95
CN HAND END YEAR           127   205      294   275      288    307    327    349    356    356
I2IFERS   1-2 years
BEG i GNIN  OFYEAR                 166      70    108    121    128    137    145    155    158
plus PURCHASED
less DEATHS                         7       3      4       5       5      5      6      6      6
less SArS                                                                       24     35     38
ON HAND ElD YEAR           126    159      67    104     116    123    132    139    114    114
CALVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORN                        164     254    270     284    304    322    344    352    352
YEMALES BORI                        82     127    135     142   152    161    172    176    176
less DEATHS                        12      19      14      14     15     16     17     18     18
CN HAND END YEAR           114     70     108   121      128    137    145    155    158    158
MALES BORPl                         82     127    135     142    152    161    172    176    176
less DEATHS                        12      19     14       14     15     16     17     21    21
ONHAND ED YEAR                     70     108    121     128    137    145    155    155    155
STEERS
B1GINH'INo OF PERIOD                                70     108    121    128    137    145    155
less DEATHS                                         6       9     10     10     10     12     12
(over 2 year :,eriod6
less SALES                                         64      99    ill   118    127    133    143
H-ERD BUILD-UIP
TOTAL HERD                   419   504    577    621      660   704   749   798    786   78'6
TOTAL ANILIAL UNITS         415   364    361    379       404   1430    459    488   470    470
SUPPLEMENTARY FMED
COSTS      | X OOTT.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                         7.0    10.8  12.1    12.8  13.7   14.5  15.5  15.8  15.8
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS           21.9    40.1  46,4   55.1   65.6  69.8  74.7  84.1   84.1
PRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR      76  133      206   .206    216    230    245    262    267    267
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)  L,80o  2j000   2,200  2,400   2,600  2,800  2,800  2,800  3,000  3,000
MIIK FOR CALVES                   24.6    38.1   40.5   42.6  45.6  148.3  51.6  52.8   52.8
PURCHASES             UNITS
Cows                  No.
FIRST CALF HWLERS    No.
F1 BREEDING HElERS   No.
SALES
MI[LK             .000 kgj 136.81 241.4  415.1    453.9  519.0  598.4 '637.7  682.0  748.2  748.2
CULL COWS             No.           38      55     72      76    81       86     92     95     95
HEIFERS               F.o.                                                       24     35     38
STEERS                No.                          64      99   111   -118    127    133    143
HERD COEFFICIENTS
CULLING               %             15      15     20      20     20      20     20     20     20
CALVING RATE          .       60    65      70     75      75      75     75     75     75     75
CALF MoRTALITY        %      20     15      15     10      10     10      10     10     10     10
ADULT MORTALITY      1%       4      4       4      4       4      4      4       4   , 4       4
February 14, 1975



,ANNEX -9
Table'14
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVEOPWMENT PROJECT
NGEREGD.Z UNIT II R      PZ-az'iu-Ufl±tt Of 356 Cows
_     '                            Y E A  R7S12--- -                   -
F-JP,) COMIOSITION         tBE-
______ _____ __ _   T 1.  1  2  3  4     5      6       7      8     9-25
COVS  above 21s years
?i'ZINNING OF YEAR                  k.51O    .219    809    356    356    356      356   346      356
plus FIRST CA1,F HEIERS            378     280     236     84      84     84      84    84      84
plus PUPCHASED
TOTAL MATED                         888     999     805    440    440    440      440   440     440
less DEATHS                          36      40      32     18     18      18      18    18      18
less CULLED                510      133     150     121     66     66      66      66    66       66
CN HAND END YEAR                    719     809     356    356    356    356      356   356     356
HEIFERS   1-2 years
BEGINNING OF YEAR                    176     246     276    254    139    139      139   139      139
plus PURCFHSED
less DEATHS                           7      10      11     10       6      6       6     6        6
less SAIE                                           181    160     49      49      49    49      49
N HAD END YEAR             267      169     236      84     84     84      84      84    84      84
CALVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORN                          578     650     560    564    308    308      308   308     308
FEMALES BORN                         289     325     ''    154    154    154       154   154      154
less DEATHS                 111      43      49      28      15     15     15      15    15       15
ON HAND END YEAR                    246     276     254    139    139    139      139   139     139
MALES BORN                           289     325     282    154    154    154      154   154      154
less DEATHS                          43      49      28     15      15     15      15    15       15
ON HAN.D END YEAR                   246     276     254    139    139    139      139   139      139
STEERS
BEGINNING OF PERIOD                          290     246    276    254    139      139   139      139
less DEATHS                                  24      20      22     20     11      11    11       11
(over 2 year period)
less SALES                                  266     226    254    234    128      128   128      128
HERD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HERD                         1,380   1,597     948    718    718    718      718   718     718
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS                   888   1,045     440    440    440    44e      440   440      440
SUPPLEMENTARY FEED
COSTS      ('02                                                . T.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                                           25.4   13.9    13.9  13.9    13.9  13.9   13-9
CONCENTRATE FOR yILKERS                             37.1  41-3   24.7  24.7    24.7  24.7   45.3
PRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR                             250    250    250    250      250   250    250
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)                           1,800  1,900 .2,000 .2,000   2 000 2 000  2 600
LESS MILK FOR CALVES '000                           84.6   46.2    46.2  46.2    L6.2 46.2   46.2
PURCHASES             UNITS
COWS                  No.
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.
Fk BREEDING HEIFERS   No.
SALES
MILK               .000 kgs-                       365.4  428.8  453.8  453.8   453.8  453.8 603.8
CULL COWS             No.            178     118   121        66     66     66      66    66      66
HEIFERS               No.                            181    160      49     49      49'  49       49
STEERS                No.                    266    226      254    234    128     128   128    128
HERD COEFFICIENT
CULLING               %               20      15     15       15     15     15      15    15      15
CALVING RATE          %               65      65     70       70     70     70      70    70      70
CALF MORT-HZTY        %               15      15     10       10     10     10      10    10   10
ADULTNORTALITY       %                4       4      4        4      4      4       4     4       4
February 14, 1975



TANZAIIIA                                                    ANNEX
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             Table 15
Ngerengere Dairy F1rm: Investment Costs
(Tsh 'Coo)
Year 1              Year 2                  Years 1 - 2        Foreign        Foreign
Investment Category                    Unit                     Units    Cost       Units    Cost        Rolttl                   Ex b           Exchange
~tfl.5  ~       Os                   Tsb '000
Building and Installation
Manager's House                        No       50.0              1       50.0        -        -           1           50.0         4°             20.0
Staff Housing                          No        7.0             14       98.0       25      175.0        39         273.0          40           109.2
Office/Store
Silage Pit                             No       28.0              2       56.0        -        -           2          56.0          40            22.4
Bush Clearing                                                            420.0        -        -                      420.0          -
Calf Feeders                           No        8.0              2       16.o        -        -           2           16.0         40              6.4
Piping                                 KM       17,o             12      204.o         -       -          12         204.0          75            153.0
Water Troughs                          No          .5            33       16.,       33       16.5        66           33.0         40             13.2
Fencing                                KM        2.5             20       50.0       10       25.0        30           75.0         60             45.0
Subtotal                                                        910.0              216.5                   1127.0                       369.2
Irrigation (Dem)                                                          90.0                                         90.0         75             67.5
Machinery & Equipment
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle               No       50.0              2      100.0                             2          100.0         60            60.0
Motor Bike                             No        9.0              -        -          2       18.0         2           18.0         60             10.8
Tractor          70-80 H.P.            No       85.0              1       85.o        -        -           1          85.0          85            72.3
Tractor          50-60 H.P.            No       67.0              2      134.0        -        -           2          134.0         85           113.9
Plough                                 No        9.0              1        9.0                -           1            9.0         85              7.7
Marrow Tine                            No        6.5              1        6.5         -       -           1            6.5         85              5.5
Harrow Disc                            No       11.0              1       11.0        -        -           1           11.0         85              9.4
Cultivator                             No        6.5              1        6.'        -        -           1           6.5          85             5-5
Rotary Slasher                         No        9.0              1        9.)        -        -           1            9.0         85              7.7
Manure Spreader                        No        4.5              1        4.5         -       -           1            4.5         85              3.8
Hlay Baler                             No       50.0              1       50.0         -       -           1           50.0         85             42.5
Grader Blade                           No        6.o              1        6.0        -        -           -            6.0         85              5.1
Churns                                 No        0.25             -                  90       22.5        9o          22.5          85            19.1
Forage Harvester                       No       70.0              1       70.0        -        -           1          70.0          85            59.5
Trailer - 3 ton                        No       12.0             1        12.0        -        -           1           12.0         85            10.2
Trailer Forage                         No       20.0              3       60.0        -        -           3          60.0          85            51.0
Engine and Pump                        No       12.0              1       12.0        -        -           1          12.0          85            10.2
Portable Electric Fences               Set       3.5              2        7.0        -        -           2           7.0          85             6.0
Hammer Mill                            No       10.0                                   1      10.0         1           10.0         85             8.5
Furniture & Office Equipment           Set      20,0              1       20.0        -        -           1          20.0          85            17.0
Cambridge Roller                       No       12.0              1       12.0        -        -           1          12.0          85            10.2
Veterinary Equipment & Tools           Set      25.0              1       25.0         -       -           1          25.0          85            21.3
Maize Planter                          No       17.0              1       17.0        -        -           1          17.0          85            14.5
Seed Drill                             No       18.0              1       18.0        -        -           1          18.0          85            15.3
Hay Mower                              No        6.0              1        6.o         -       -           1           6.0          85             5.1
Hay Fake                               No        5.5              1        5.5         -       -           1           5.5          85             4.7
Spares for Machinery and
Equipment  @ 20, Cost                 _        _                -      137.2        -       10.1         -         147.3           -           119.4
Subtotal                      -         -               -       823.2        -      60.6          -         883.8          -            716.2
Incremental operating Expenses1                                   -      692.0        _        -           -         692.0           2/          215.7
Total Investment                                 _                     2,515.7        -     277.1                  2     .                     15 68. 6
See Table   16   . Total operating expenses financed in Year One.
2 @ Rates varying between 30+ and 85*.
February 1975



ATrr o 6
TAWIZANIA
DAIFY DLVS2OPKNT PROJEOT
Ngerengere DWry Fsm: Sale and Oseratina  oenass
(Tik '000)
Before           - _Yea--------__                      Yeer ____
DSel eot /           1         2        3         4         5         6         7         8        9-5
Cul COY3                                                     216.0    173.0    193.0       142.o    147.0    152.0    158.0    161.0   -161.
Heifers                                                        26.6    120.4    253.4       224.0     68.6      68.6    102.2    117.6    121.8
Steere                                                          -       266.o    290.0      353.S    345.0    246.o    255.0    261.0    271.0
Milk                                                          301.8    518.9   _A4.1   1'184.8   ci -u,    1,36j4.4  1,342.3  1,5W-5   1,690.0
Total SOlea                                              517.8    957 9 1,760.5   1,903.8  1,875.9  1,831.0  1,857.5  2,042.1  2,243.8
Opernting 3xpenses
Salaries snd Wages /
Maoager                                                        39.6
A.eiatoot Manager                                              20.7
Field Assiatent/Clerk                                          32.8
S2nir Milker,                                                  8.4
Milkers                                                        63.4
Milk RSo-rder                                                   6.6
Calf Attendent                                                  6.6
Feedere                                                         6.2
Herd-a,eo                                                      19.8
Drivers                                                        28.2
Skilled Lnbor                                                   9.4
U..killed Labor                                                12.4
Me-hasi.                                                        8.2
Watoh-en                                                        6.2
Sub Total                                                273.5    273.5    273.5    273.5    273.5    273.5    273.5    273.5    273.5
Livestock H.obsodry
Veterinary and Druse )/                                        45.1      50.6     29.5      30.4      31.3      32.4      33.4     32.8      32.8
Artificinl Ioae.iaatioo t /                                    24.0      28.6     24.5      17.2      17.7      18.3      18.9     19.1      19.1
HygSiee nd Mi-allsneosa 5/                                     o.8       1.2       2.8      2.8       2.9       3.0       3.1      3.1       3.1
Calf Feed /                                                     7.0      10.8     37.5      26.7      27.6      28.4      29.4      29.7     29.7
Conoentrate-  /                                                21.9      42.1     83.5      96.4      90.3      94.5      99.4    108.8    129.4
Mineral- nnd Lioka ,/                                          11.9      13.4       7.8      8.o       8.3       8.5       8.8       8.6       8.7
SOb Tota                                                 110.7    144.7    185.6    181.5    178.1    185.1    193.0    202.1    222.8
Crop and Pestare 2/
Maine Silage                                                    8.4
8qy                                                            33.6
Sob Total                                                 42.0      42.0     42.0      42.0      42.0      42.0      42.0      42.0     42.0
Foal. Lobrinonte eod Repeir-
Foal ed Lubric pts /                                           98.9
Motor Bike All- ,aae 119
Repaira - Vehicles   2                                         63.
-  Toaotora/Eng$in  I
Other  obiery                                               41.8
Fe-cing/Water Supply                                        21.2
- Otber BOoed Aaaete  
Seall Tools                                                   lo.O
Sob Total                                                240.8
MI.-eilaneos, A-costs 2/                                       25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0
Total Operating Bapansea                                      692.0    726.0    766.9    762.8    759.4    766.4    774.3    783.4    804.1
Net Operating Incore                             0.°         (174.2)   231.9    993.7  1,141.0  1,116.5  1,064.6   ],083.2  1,258.7   1,439.7
1/ Sel&sa  Cull Cos e TSb 1,000
Heifers * Tab 1,400
Steer- * Tab 1,000
Milk e Tah 1.25
3/ Salaries and Wages, 8ned on perestatel rates, includinog lea-, p       gq, Sht allowance, provident fond  nd ataff endoweet aebeaca.
3/ Veeiary  nd DruRs: gaged on all cettle receiving two ioo:.ationa per year againet 1-; amnmoal in-o-lations against blackquarter
d Anthre; rgular treatnt ageinst internal pareaites; and othbr d ai tlentn. Young beifera will be vncinated agadnst brucellosis.
J  Artificial In-esi-stionso  Based on tbe total nouber of -oons_ted.
3/ Hygiene "nn  idaellaneooa,  Covers coat of cleaning materias, ailDin02 chine robber replacceent parts and sall  iceflaneon  ite-n.
W  Calf Feeds: Besed on ,m,bsr of calves at tie cnd of the y?ar -Iti pl: el by fifty/CoeSfioieat.    _
3/ Con-cntrtes:  Calcolated on the following basis:  Milk Yield 2 k'_  1,500 (kgn) 0 150 x No. Lactation. a Price
3 Miasralo and Licks: Ban d on a mIntare of as.t; bonsmeal sod sd-a al:: being available tbhroglcont the year.
2/ Cropesand Pstoreso -Bsed .on Irrigated -ine for silnge sod Fole, g asn patre (5 years) aed ,mai.e for ilage
(Ith ye"r) in rtation with  aise as the nrsae crp. Expe.:ted soot 01 yield. ore aa folio1s:
Continuous maine (d.oobl, -rpp,!d) - 200 sacrea 20 tone/scre
Botation mdie (singl3e  -rop;ed  - 30 sores at 15 tinc/sore
BO Feld  nd Lubricaote:  hoed on one tractor operating 1,503 bolrs 0  er year  kith an average fuel onas-ption of one liter per hour;
one l1nd-rer operating 36,000 1. per year  kith on arerage foel  corm-ption of 0.25 Iliter per kn; one water ponp  angina at Tab 8,000
per year; a geaerator operating 3,650 hours per year 0ith s a,s.rge fool concumcption of 4 liters per hour; and lubriovnts at 12.5 percent
of foel coat.
g/ Motor Bike Allowance: Covers  ileage allowance paid to AskA.tt nl: B s,ger for one of motor bike on fso  antiitien.
/   Repairn:  hn.d an standard estleat.s and eperienc. of l-ge toale frbm.
MisVcellaneoos Accoont,  Crsys  anot of telqbkone, postage, atatioasY, ir travel uifrms  nd minpelleaeona   AatreAtive aceonts.
-    Net revenue before devejorsent a.su.ed to be Tah Iaro cc ls
Febrary,12, 1975



| TANZANIA
DAIRY DME.OPNENT PROJECT
200200 1 DAIBy AiD4RHS  ffIN219TAL CASd F08
Befor---__-
Ieve1o25Ient       1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9          :0       11         12        13        14        15         16        17        1E         19        20        21         22      23-25-
Source of FooLds
151.8                                                 517.8    957.9   1,760.5   1,903.8   1,875.9    1,831.0  1;857.5  2,042.1  2,243.8
Deelop-.at 10.     d G,Od t        2.51.7                       2787.1    -         -         -         -          -         -
Tot.1 80 5s                               3.033.5   1          1. s   1903.8   1875.9    ,  o   ,857,5   2g042.1  2,241.i
Uses of SHads
COve.t-eot Cost                                     1,823.7     277.1     -         -         -         -          -         -         --
ope-ating Cost                                        692.0     726,0     766.9    762.8    759.4    766.4    774.3          783.4    804.1    804.1       804.1     804.1    804.1    804.1        804.1     804.1     804.1     804.1      804.1     804.1      804.1     804.1     804.1
cepita1 RBelac=crt-                                             - -                 -         100.0     253.0      18.0      208.5    100.0      -         352.5      28.0     100.0      -         208.5     253.0     118.0     -      ,             -         452.5      768.8
Lo0n I..ttl-eat 1/                                    _                   _         _         414.0    414.0      414.o      414.0     414.7     4     14.0   c.    414.0      414.0    414.0       414,0.   -          - 
Total Uses                                 2,815.7   1,003.1  _  766.9    762.8  1,273.4    1,433.4  1,206.3   1,405.9  1,138.1   1,218.1   1,570.6    1,246.1  1,318.1   1,0i 8.1   1,426.6   1,057.1         922.1     804.1      804.1     804.1   1,206.6   1,072.9      804.1
A-nool Cash S-rplos/Defioit             0.0           517.8    231.9_   993.6    1.141           .3       357.6  651.2       662          .7   105.7       673.2 _      7.7    925.7  1,025.7        817.2  1,186.7   1,3 1.7   0,4397   1,43.7   1,439.7         37802  1,170.9   ,439.7
7/  Roen  opSyable in 15  wsars aith e 4-yeur £0800 perio-d e EJ% 5--se5t 1er         U,nu0  G00nt  -UDt ts oquIV.l1t to workoNg
C*apitl whioh i  sith.er #lf-fioeao.d o a  5srst f.o- G-.oar,SOt tbhassh LIDA su DAdCA ,
May 23, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 1 8
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PATEL Dairy Farm-Unit of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
Y F A R ,  1-25
14.RD CCE'OSITIONF
_ _ _     l        2      3      4       5      6       7      8     9-25
CA'S above  2' years              i
BsE  NlNING OF YE.AR                 250      275     273    293    299    314    340      356    356
plus FIRST ClLF  EIVERS              90       58      85     96    109    127    123      107    107
plus KTROHAwSED      
TOTAL ?CATSED                       340      333     358    389    408    441    463      463    463
less DEATHS                          14       10      11     12      12     13     14      14      14
less CUrUL                            51      50      54      78     82     88     93      93      93
Oil HiAD END TEAR            250    275      273     293    299    314    340    356      356.   356
HIEIFERS   1-2 years
BEC-1:NING OF YEAR                   60       88      99    112    131    13B    148      157    157
pLus PURCHASED
less DEATHS                           2        3       3      3       4      4      5       5       5
less SALES                                                                  11     36      45      45
ON HAND END YEAR              90     58     *85       96    109    127    123    107      107    107
CATLVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORN                          220      234     250    292    306    330    348      348    348
ITMALES BOMIT                        110      117     125    146    153    165    174      174    174
less DEATHS                          22       18      13     15      15     17     17      17;    17
ON HARD END YEAR              60     88      99      112    131    138   1148    157             157
MALES BORN                           110      117     125    146    153    165    174      174i   174
less DEATHS                          22       18      13     15     15      17     17      17:    17
ON HAND END YEAR                     88       99     112    131    138    148    157      1571   157
STEERS
BEGIOLINING OF PERIOD                          60      88     99    112    131      1381   148    157
less DEATHS                                    3       3      3       3                      5;     5
(over 2 yerx period%                                         3                      4 -
less SALES                        -           57      85     96    109    127      134    143    152
HERD BUILD-UP
TOTAL EitD                           509     556      613    670    717    759    777      777    777
TOTAL ANI1AL UNITS                   333      358     389    408    441    463    463    1463    463
SUPPLEMENTARY FEED D
COSTS      ('COO T.Sh.)                                               
CALF FEEDS                           8.8      9.9    11.2   13.1   13.8  i14.8  15.7  ¶ t5,7   15.7
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS             24.1   40.1    55.3  70.5   81.4   87.9  92.1    92.1   92.1
PRODUCTION                                                                               i
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR      160    179      191     205    224    236    255    267      267    267
MIL-K PER LACTATION (kgs)  1,800  1,800   2,300   2,700  3,000 j3,200 :3,200   3,200 3,200 ' 3,200
MJIUK 1DUix CALVIIs                 33.0   35.1    37.5  43.8    45.9   49.5  52.2    52.2  52.2
PURCHASES              UNITS
COiWS                  No.
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.
F1 BREEDING HEIFERS   No.
SALES
1aLrK              .000 kgs,288.0  289.2   404.2  516.0  628.2  709.3  766.5  802.2  802.2  802.2
CULL COWS              No. -           51     5°       54     78     82     88       93     93     93
HEIFERS                No.        |                                          11      36     45     28'
STEEMS                 No.             90     57       85     96    109    127      134    143    152
HERD COEFFICIEF" 'S
CULLING                                15     15       15     20     20     20       20     20     20
CALVING EATE                   64      65     70       70     75     75      75      75     75     75
CALF .ORTA-JTY                 25      20     15       10     10     10      10      10     10     10
Ak)ULT MORTALITY       g                4      3        3      3      3      3        3      3      3
/ All animals from farm  urcha,ed by DAFCO in Year 1.
February 14, 1975



TANZANIA
ANNEX 9
DAIRY DEVELOPMNT PROJECT                                         Table 19
Patel Dairy'Fazm: Investment Co'sts
(Tsh '000)
Year 1          Total    Total   Foreign       Foreign
Investment Category                         Unit    Unit Cost        Units    Cost        Units    Cost    Exchange    Exchange
Building and Installationsl"                                                                         -Tsh '000
Manager's House                                          5.0                     5.0        -         5.0      -
Assistant Manager's House                   No           38.0          1        38.0        1        38.0     40          15.2
Junior Staff HDusing                        No          16.o           3        48.o        3        48.0     40          19.2
Staff Housing                               No           7.0          17      119.0        17       119.0     40          47.6
Office/Store                                No          44.0           1        44.0        1        44.0     40          17.6
Implement Shed/Workshop                     No          17.0           1        17.0        1        17-.0    40           6.8
Spray Race                                  No          22.0           1       22.0         1        22.0     40           8.8.
Silage Pit                                 No           28.0           4      112.0         4       112.0     40          44.8
Calf Feeders                                No           8.0           1         8.0        1         8.0     40           3.2
Pumping                                     KM          17.0           1        17.0        1        17.0     75          14.5
Water Troughs                               No            0.05        15         7.5       15         7.5     40           3.0
Fencing                                     KM           2.5          10        25.0       10        25.0     6o          15.0
Milking Parlor                              No          75.0           1        75.0        1        75.0     40          30.0
Sheltered Feed Yard                         No           65.o          1        60           1       65.0      40         26.0
Subtotal                                         -                   602.                 602.5                251.7
Irrigation                                             380.0           1       380.0        1       380.0     75         285.0
Machinery and Equipment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                    No          50.0           1        50.0        1        50.0     60          30.0
Motor Bike                                  No            9.0          1         9.0        1         9.0     60           5.4
Tractor        50-60 H.P.                   No          67.0           2       134.0        2       134.0     85         113.9
Tractor        70-80 H.P.                   No          85.0           2       170.0        2       170.0     85         144.5
Plough                                      No           9.0           2        18.0        2        18.0     85          15,3
Harrow Tine                                 No           6 5           1         6.5        1         6.5     85           5.5
Harrow Disc                                 No          11.0           1        11.0        1        11.0     85           9.4
Cambridge Roller                            No          12.0           1        12.0        1        12.0     85          10.2
Maize Planter                               No           17.0          1        17.0        1        17.0     85          14 5
Weed Sprayer                                No            8.0          1         8.o        1         8.0     85           6.8
Fertilizer Spreader                         No            4.5          1         4.5        1         4.s     85           3.8
Cultivator                                  No           6.5           1         6.5        1         6.5     85           5 5
Rotary Slasher                              No            9.0          1         9.0        1         9.0     85           7.7
Grader Blade                                No           6.o           1         6.o        1         6.o     85           5.1
Generator                                   No          28.0           1        28.0        1        28.0     85          23.8
Portable Electric Fences                    Set          3.5           3        10.5        3        10.5     85           8.9
Hammer Mill :                              No           10.0           1       10.0         1       10.0      85           8.5
Veterinary Equipment & Tools                Set         25.0           1        25.0        1        25.0     85          21.3
Furniture & Office Equipment                Set         20.0           1        20.0        1        20.0     85          17.0
Milking Machine                             No          100.0          1       100.0        1       100.0     85          85.0
Front End Loader                            No          11.0           1        11.0        1        11.0     85           9.4
Spares for Machinery and
Equipment  @ 20% Cost                      -           -             -      133.2         -        133.7      /        110.3
Subtotal                           _                          -      799.2         -      799. 7      -        661.8
Livestock Purchase 2           3'            -           -             -      5620                  562.0 
Incremental Operating Expenses-              -           -             -                            5 -  5     -161.5
Total Investment                             -            -            -    2,940.6         -    2,940. 6              1.360.0
1/ For renovation of existing building and additions.
2] Cattle on farm before development must be purchased in year 1; Cows, Tsh 1000, Calves Tsh 600.
J/ See Table 20. Total operating expenses financed in Year One.
V   At rates varying between 304 and 85%.
February 1975



AN 9
DAIRY D8VEnRW T PRWFOCT                                              Tbl 90
Patel Dairy Frm: Saleus       Operating Exon.sn
Before   -4    _           _       --                      Year  --------------------------------------------
Development-   1             2          3          4           5          6           7          8           9-25
Sales .
Cull Cows                                             51.0       50.0       54.0        78.0       82.0        88.0       93.0        93.0       93.0
Heifers                                                                                                        15.4       50.4        63.0       39.2
Steers                                               90.0        57.0       85.0        96.0      109.0       127.0      134.0      143.0       152.0
Milk                                                 361.5      505.3      645.0       785.3      886.6       958.1    1,002.8    1,002.8    1,002.8
Total Sales                                  502.5      612.3       784.0       959.3    1,077.6    1,188.5    1,280.2    1,301.8    1,287.0
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages i/
Manager                                               50.0
Assistant Manager                                     20.0
Field Assistant/Clerk                                 24.6
Milkers                                               29.4
Calf Attendant                                        3.3      _____
Herdomen                                              6.6
Drivers                                              9.4
Skilled Labor                                        4.7
Unskilled Labor                                      6.2
Watchmen                                              6.2
Subtotal                                     160.4       160.4      160.4      160.4       160.4      160.4       160.4      160.4       160.4
Livestock Husbandry
Veterinary & Drugs .                                 11.9        12.9       14.0        14.7       15.9        16.7       16.7        16.7       16.7
Artificial Insemination . /                            7.1        6.9         7.5        8.2        8.6         9.3        9.7         9.7        9.7
Hlygiene & Miscellaneous :/                           1.1         1.1        1.2         1.3        1.4         1.5        1.6         1.6        1.6
Calf Feeds g/                                         8.8         9.9       11.2        13.1       15.8        14.8       15.7        15.7       15.7
Concentrates .                                       24.1        40.1       5'.3        70.5       81.4        87.9       92.1        92.1       92.1
Minerals & Licks 2/                                    2.9        3.2         3.5        3.7        3.9         4.2        4.2         4.2        4.2
Subtotal                  55.9        74.i                 ~~~~~~~~~~~111.5
Subtotal                                      55.9        74.1       92.7                  127.0      134.4      240.o       140.0      140.0
Crop & Pasture 2/
Maize Silage                                         208         ___
Basy                                                  6_              _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  __  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _
Subtotal                                      88         .38         88          88         88         88          88         88          88
Fuel, Lubricants & Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants /                               113.6
Motor Bike Allowance 1/                                3.0
Repairs-Vehicles L/                                  90.0
- Tractors/Engine   )
-  Other Machinery                                   45.0
- Fencing/Water Supply )                             21.0
- Other Fixed Assets
Small Tools                                           5.0         __
Subtotal                                     277.6      277.6       277.6      277.6       277.6      277.6       277.6      277.6       277.6
Miscellaneous Accounts o                                15.0       13.0       15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0       15.0
Total Operating Expenses                              596.9        W1.        633.7      652.5      668.o       675.4      681.0       681.0      681.0
Net Operating Income                       0.0         (94,4)     (:8)        150.3      306.8      409.6       513.1      599.2       620.8      606.o
i/  Sales:  Cull Cows e Tsh 1,000
Heifers e Tsh 1,400
Steers e Tsh 1,000
Milk e Tsh 1.25
i/ Salaries and Wages: Based on parastatal rates, including leave pay, night allowance, provident fund and staff endowment schemes.
3/ Veterinary nd Drugs: Based on all cattle receiving two inoculations per year against FMD; annual inoculations against blackquarter
and Anthrax; regular treatment against internal parasites; and other ailments. Young heifers will be vaccinated against brucellosis.
i/ Artificial Inseminations: Based on the total number of Cows mated.
ygiene and Miscellaneous:  Covers cost of cleaning materials, mailking machine rubber replacement parts and small miscellaneous items.
Calf Feeds:  Based on number of calves at the end of the year multiplied by fifty (coefficient).
2/  Concentrates:  Calculated on the following basisl  Milk Yield (kgs    1,500 (kga) + 150 x No. Lactations x Price
2/ Minerals and Licks: Based on a mixture of salt; bonezeal and minerals being available throughout the year.
s/ and Pastures:  Based on irrigated maize for silage and Nhodes grass pasture (5 years) and maize for silage
5tb  ear) in rotation with maize as the nurse crop. Expected annual yields are as follows:
Continuous maize (double cropped) - 200 acres @ 20 tons/acre
Rotation maize (single cropped) - 30 acres at 15 tons/acre
/ Fueld and Lubricants: Based on one tractor operating 1,500 hours per year with an average fuel consunption of one liter per hour;
one landrover operating 36,000 km per year with an average fuel oonsumption of 0.25 liter per kz; one water pump engine at Tsh 8,000
per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours per year with an average fuel consumption of 4 liters per hour; and lubricants at 12.5 percent
of fuel cost.
Motor Bike Allowance: Covers mileage allowance paid to Assistant Manager for use of motor bike on farm activities.
/   Repairs:  Based on standard estimates and experience of large scae frms.
3/ Miscellanesus Accounts: Covers costs of telephone, postage, sta-ioney, air travel,uniforms and miscellaneous administrative accounts.
Before development net revenue assumed to be Tsh zero or less.
February 12 1975



A_I ZEX 9
TANZANIA                                                                                                                        T.ble 21
DAIRY DEVELOR4EIT PROJECT
Patel D.ir  F.r-o:  Iareme-tol Cash Flow
(Osh '090)
Before                                                                                          __ ______ ___________--- Ye-- -----------------------------
Ds-elopWeSt        1          2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9         :0        11         12        13         14         15        16         17         5E        19         20         21      22-25
So._rce of F ndso
Sles                                                  502.5     612.3      784.o     959.3   1,077.6   1,188.5   1,280.2    1,301.8    1.287.0
Dtoelope-nt Loso and G-sOt                           2,940.6     -
Tot1 Oouroe-                              3,443.1      612.3     784.o      959.3   1,077.6   1,188.5   1,280.2    1,310.8    1,287.0
Uses of Funds
Lnvestment  -ost                                     2.343.7
oparaning Cos.                                         596.9     615.1      633.7     652.5    668.0       875.4     621.0    681.0        691.0       681.0   681.0        68-.u     681.0      691.0    601.1       681.0           681.0 681.0               61.1.
Clpitnl     orent                                                _          -         _l -0.t              361.0      -          _            50.0     -         606.5      -           50.0     -          -         361.0       50.0     -          -          -         650.0      -
Lo3- Zn-t.1rse-t 1                                     -         -          -         _         49.        '46.o    460o    46o.o           460.o      4 460.o    4611 n_ 460.0       4600.      460.o    46n         -         -        _            ---
T.t3l U-se                                  3,363     615.1       633.7      652.5    1,1S4.0  1,452.4   1,097.0    1,097.0    1,147.0   i,297.i  1,703.5    1,097.0  1,147.0    1,097.0  1,097.0   1,042.0             731.0    681.0       68I.0     681 .    1,337.5    681.0
An..nos1 Cash Sarplua/Dsfi.it                          502.5          _        0.       06.8    (56.4)   (263.9)      183.2      183,2       140,o     190.0    (416.5)      190.0    140.0       190.0    190.0    245.0         556.0    606.0      606.0     606.0      (50.5)   606.0
LLon ReIoyable in 15 years witi a 4-year grace period 82 8   ins, ret per ananu.  Grant aon0nt Os equivalent ts working
apital eshish in sitbr istelf-ftl9assd we a grent feorn Gov. cnet through LIDA snd DAlCO.
Maj 23, 1975



~~~~~~~~Table 2
TA])ZANTA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model of RONGAI COMPLEC Dairy Farm - 3 Units of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
~~_                  Y m A R S  ~~~~1-25
HERD COMPOSITION           ^                                   AR
_________________   t,MT.  l  2  3  4  5  6       7     8    9-25
COWS above 2i years
3ECGINNING OF YEAR                  735    680    697   796   883   927   1,00; 1,068  1,068
plus FIRST CALF iiEIFERS            94    171     274   281    320   376    388   320   320
plus PURCRA.SED
TOTAL RATHED                       829    851    971  1,077  1,203  1,503   1,391  1,388  1,388
less DEATHS                         25      26      29    32    36    39        142    42    42
less CULLED                        124    128      146   162   240   261    281   278   278
Cl HAND END YEAR            735   680    697    796   883   927  1,003   1,068  1,068  1,068
IHIFERS   1-2 years
BEGINNING OF YEAR                   176    282    289   330   388    467    469   500   499
plus PUlRCHASED
less DEATHS                          5       8       8    10    12    14        14    1c    15
less SAIES                           -       -      -      -      -     65    135   165   164
ON HAND END YEAR             94   171    274    281    320   376   388    320   320   320
CALVES    0-l year
CALVES BORN                         664    680    776   862   962  1,042   1,112  1,110, 1,110
FEMALES BORN1                       332    340    388   431   481   521         556   555   555
less DEATHS                         50      51      58     43    14    52       56    56;   56
ON HAND ED YEAR             176   282    289    330   388    467   469    500   499   499
IALIES BORN                         332     340    388    431   481   521    556   555,  555
less DEATHS                         50      51     58    43    14    52    557    56    56
ON HAND END YEAR            176   282    289    330   388    467   469    499   499!  499
STEERS
BEGINNING OF PERIOD                         176    282    289   330   388    467   469:  499
less DEATHS                                 10      16    16    20    24        28    28:   30
(over 2 year period)
less SALES                   36            166    266   273   310   464    439, 14414  470
i          J
HERD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HEBD                        1,415   1,532   1,737  1,979  2,237  2,329   2,3881 2,3861 2;386
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS                  851    954  1,077  1,203  1,303  1,391   1,388~ 1,388! 1,388
SUPPT1HENTARY FEED
cosTs      ( g oo T. Sh. );
CALF FEEDS                         28.2   28.9   33.0  38.8  46.7  46.9   50          1 49.91
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS           138.7  159.0  200.7  275.3  345.0  397.0  422.7  422.7: 422.7
PRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/TEAR    514    544    558    637   706    742   802    854   854,  854
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)  2,200  2,600   2,800   3,000  3,200  3,400  3,600   3,800  3,800  3,800
MILK FOR CALVES                     996   102.0  116.4 129.3  144.3  156.3  166.8  166.5, 166.5
PURCHASES             UNITS
CGOWS                No.
flRST CALF HEIFERS    No.
F, BREEDING HEIFERS   No.
SALES
.000 kgs Lu3C.8  1,314.8 1,460.41,794.6 2,129.9 2,378.52,730.9 3,078.43,078.73,078.7
CULL COWS             No.           124    128    146   162    240   261    281   278   278
BRIBERS               '*o.                                               65    135   165    164
STEERS               No.             36    166    266   273   310    464    439   441   470
HERD COEFFICIENTS
CULLING              $               15      15     15    15    20    20         20    20      20
CALVING RATE                 70      80      80     80    80    80    80         80    80    80
CALF MORTA.ITY        %       20     15      15     15    10    10    10         10    10    10
ADULT MSORrALITY      %       4       3       3       3     3      3      3       3      3      3
February 12, 1975         |



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bongad Dairy Complex:  Investment Cost
(Tsh '000)
Year 1           Year 2             Years 1-2         Foreign       Foreign
Investment Category                     Unit     Unit    Units    Cost       Units    Cost       Total    Total      Exchange     Exchange
Cost                                           Units    cost                     (Tas 'C00)
Building and Installation
Junior Staff Housing                    No.        16.0      4       64.o       3       48.o       7      112.0        40              44.8
Staff Rousing                           No.        '(.0      2       14.0       1        7.0       3       21.0        40               8,4
Milking Parlor and Shed                 No.       175.0      1      175.0       -        -         1      175.0        40              70.0
Silage Pit                              No.       28.0       2       56.o       2       56.0       4      112.0        40              44.8
Roads                                   KM          3.0      4       12.0       4       12.0       8       24.0        40               9.6
Piping                                  KM        17.0       5       85.0       3       51.0       8      136.0        75             l0e.0
Water Troughs                           No.         0.5     28       i14.o     22       11.0      50       25.0        40              10.0
Fencing                                 KM         2.5      20       50.0      60      150.0      80      200.0        60             120.0
Subtotal                                                   470.0              335.0              805.0                      409.6
Machinery and Equiment
Four-Wheel-Drive Vehicle                No.       50.0       1       50.0       1       50.0       2      100.0        60              60.0
Motor Bike                              No.         9.0      2       18.0       -         -        2       18.0        60              10.8
Tractor        70-80 H*P.               No.       85.0       2      170.0       1       85.0D      3      255.0        85             216.8
Tractor        50-60 H.P.               No.       67.0       3      201.0       1       67.0       4      268.0        85             227.8
Plough                                  No.         9.0      2       18.0       1        9.0       3       27.0        85              23.0
Harrow - Tine                           No.        6.5       2       13.0       1        6.5       3       19.5        85              16.6
Harrow - Disc                           No.       11.0       2       22.0       1       11.0       3       33.0        85              28.1
Cultivator                              No.         6.5      2       13.0       -         -        2       13.0        85              11.1
Rotary Slasher                          No.         9.0      2       18.0       1        9.0       3       27.0        85              23.0
Seed trill                              No.       18.0       1       18.0       -         -        I       18.0        85              15.3
Hammer Mill                             No.        10.0      2       20.0       1       lC.O       3       30.0        85              25.5
Weed Sprayer                            No.         8.0      2       16.0       -         -        2       16.0        85              13.6
Manure Spreader                         No.         4.5      2         9.0      -         -        2         9.0       85               7.7
Hlay Mower                              No.         6.o      1        6.o       1         6.o      2       12.0        85              10.2
Grader Blade                            No.         6.o      1        6.o       1         6.0      2       12.0        85              10.2
Nay Rake                                No.         5.5      1         5.5      1         5.5      2        11.0       85               9.4
Trailer - 3 Ton                         No.        12.0      3       36.0       -         -        3        36.0       85              30.6
Hay Baler                               No.        50.0      1        50.0      1        50.0      2      100.0        85              85.0
Trailer Forage                          No.        20.0      5      100.0       1        20.0      6      120.0        85             102.0
Forage Harvester                        No.        70.0      2        70.0      2        70.0      2       i4o.0       85            1f9.0
Engine and Pump                         No.        12.0      1       12.0       1       12.0       2       24.0        85              20.4
Portable Electric Fences                Set         3.5      5       17.5       1         3.5      6       21.0        85              17.9
Furniture and Office Equipment          Set        20.0      1        20.0      1        20.0      2        40.0       85              34.0
Cambridge Rolier                                  12.0       1       12.0       -         -        1        12.0       85              10.2
Veterinary Equipment and Tools          Set        25.0      1        25.0      1        25.0      2        50.0       85              42.5
Maize Planter                           No.        17.0      1        17.0      1        17.0      2        34.0       85              28.9
Spares for Machinery
arnd Equipment @ 20% Cost              _          -               193.4                95.7             289.1                       233.9
Subtotal                                                 1,156.4              578.2            1,734.6                     1,433.5
Incremental Operating
Expenses 1/                            -          -             1,195.6                 -             1,195.6        2/             323.6
Total Investment                                         2,822.0              913.2            3,735.2                     2,166.7
1/  See Table 24 . Total operating expenses financed in Year One,.
2/ @ Rates varying between 30% and 80%.                                                                                                               ,
February 14, 1975



DAIRE DEWZWRIT P2WECTT
Rongai Dairy Complex: Sales and Operating Expenses
(Tsh '000)
Be>f°ore 4/-  ------------------------''   L   ------ ---'''Yer ''-------- .............................................
DNv.l  nr        1           2                     4 ...7..L.             6          7      
Sales &                       
Cull Cows                                           124.0       128.0      146.0       162.0     240.0       261.0       281.0      278.0      278.0      278.0
Heies-                                                                                   -         -          91.0       189.0      231.0      229.66
Steers                                               36.0      166.o      266.0        273.0     310.0      464.0       439.0      441.0       470.o0.
Milk                                                1643 .5    1825.5    2243.3       2662.4    2973.1    3413.6        3848.0    3848 .4    3848.4    3848.4
Total Sales                                 1803.5    2119.5    2655.3         3097.4    3523.1    4229.6        4757.0    4798.4    4826.0
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages 7/
Manager                                              118
Assistant Manager                                     62.6
Field Assistant/Clerk                                 24.26
Milkers                                               34.2
Calf Attendant                                        9.9
Herdsmen                                             39.6
Drivers                                              47.0
Mechanic                                             i6.4
Skilled Labor                                        18.2
Unskilled Labor                                     1372
Watchm.en                                            12.4
Subtotal                                     421.0      421.C      421.0       421.0      421.0      421.0       421.0      .21.0      421.0       421.0
Livestock Husbandry
Veterinary & Drugs 3/                                30.6       34.4        38.7        43.4      46.9       50.1        49.9        49.9
Artificial Insemination 4/                           17.9       18.3        20.9        23.2      25.9       28.1        30.0        30.0
Hygiene & Miscellaneous :/                           10.9       11.2        12.7        14.1      i4.8       16.0        17.1        17.1
Calf Feeds  /                                        28.7       28.9        33.0        38.8      46.7       46.9        50.0        49.9
Concentrates 7/                                     138.7      159.0       200.7       275.3     345.0      397.0       422.7       422.7
Minerals & Licks                                       8.1      9.6       10.2         11.4      12.4       13.2        13.2        13.2
Subtotal                                     234.9      261.4      316.2       4o6.2      491.7      551.3       582.9      582.8       582.8      582.8
Crop & Pasture 2/
Wheat                                                30.6
Maize Silage                                         12.6
Subtotal                                     93.6        93.6       93.6        93.6      93.6        93.6        93.6       93.6       93.6       93.6
Fuel, Lubricants & Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants  o/                             150.1
Motor Bike Allowance L'/                              5.0
- Rpairn-Vehicles ./Y                               124,6
-  Tractors/Engine   )
-  Other Mochinery                                   82.3
- Fencing/Water Supply )                             2L.1
- Other Fixed Assets
Small Tools                                          15.0
Subtotal                                    4o0.1      4io.i       401.1       401.1     401.1       401.1       401.1      4o0.i      401.1      401.1
MiscelLaneous Accounts                                 45.0       45.0 _     4.  o       45.0       45.0       45.0        45.0       45.o        45.0       45.0
Total Operating Expenses                             195.6    1222.1  __6,9            1366.9    i452.4      1512.0      1543.6     1543.5    1543.5    1043.5
Bet Operating income                                  607.9      897.4    1378.4       1730.5    2070.7    2717.6        3213,4     3254.9     3282.5      . 82.5
3L Sales: Cull Cows @ Tsb 1,000
Heifers e Tsh 1,400
Steers 6 Tsh 1,000
Milk a Tsh 1.25
2/ Salaries and Wages: Based on paraststal rates, including Leave pt,o, isight allowance, provident fund and staff endowment schemes.
3/ Vetrinary ad Drugs:  Based on all cattle receiving two ilocu-aticns per year against FMD; annual inoculations against blackquarter
and Anthrax; regular treatment sgainst isterual parasites; end otlar :,ilmsents. Young heifers will be vaccinated against brucello,sis.
Artificial Inseminations:  Based on the total number of ro ds mati.w
5   Hygiene and Hiscellaneous:  Covers cost of cleaning materiasl, milking machine rubber replacement parts and small miscellaneous itema.
3   Calf Feeds:  Based on number of calves at the end of the y:ar iOultlpliei by fifty (coo.ffiient).
7/ Concentrates: Calculated on the following basisl Milk Yild ikLE -_ 1500 (kgs) + 150 x Ho. Lactations x Price
3d Minerals and Licks: Based on a mixture of salt; bonemeal nod rise: alf: being available throbghout the year.
r/ Crps adPastures:  Based on irrigated maice for silage aild M odes grass pasture (5 years) and.maize for silage
year) in rotation with maize as the nurse crop. Expected aenr al yields are as follows:
Continuous maize (do,ubl: mccpp,d) - 200 acres.@ 20 tons/acre
Rotation maine (single croj}ed' - 30 acres at 15 tons/acre
p/ Fuel and lubricants: Based on one tractor operating 1,500 honrs rar year with an average fuel consumption of one liter per hour;
one lmndrover operating 36,000 km per year with an average fuel do9 susption of 0.25 liter per-km; one water pUmp engine at Tsh 8,000
per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours per year with an aeaes so1 consumption of 4 liters per hour; end lubricwnts at 12.5 percent
of fuel cost.
Mg/  Motor Bike Allowance:  Covers mileage allowance paid to As:;istrnt V usoger for use of motor bike on fars activities.
77/ Repairs:  Based on standard estimates and experience of la-ge rcale fErs.l
7/ Miscellaneous Accounts:  Covers costs of telephone, postage, as ati icye, air travel uniforms and miscellaneous administrative accounts.
14/  Before development net revenue assumed to be Tsh zero or less.
February L2, 1975



6181X 9
table 25
Rotagi Dairy Com1lex:  .Iereaeots1 Cash1 F210
(Teh 'G00)
5efor             ------         ---------   -----------------------~~~'-------------- ---- --- - - - -- - --- - -   -- -- --      - - - -- -- ------- ---------------------  ----------- -ea  -------------____- -- - -- -               ----     ---- _____  ------_______         _       _  _  _ _   __   _
bovelalsasat        1         2          3          4         5          6          7          a         9          .2        11         12        13         14        15         36         17         13        19          20         21        22       23-25
..oooOse of Fundst
Solos                                                1,803.5   2,1193.5   2,655.3   3,297.,   3,523.1   4,229.6   4,757.0   4,798.4   2,826.0  4,6.o,0
QoealoPoeno loa sod Gs-at                          3,822.0      913.2     -          -         -          -          _         -          _                             -           , -       _          -          .          _                    - 
Total Sot-ass                               4,62.5 _,032.7_  2,655.3   3,097.4   3,523.1   4,229.6   4,757.0            4,798.4   4,826.0   4         4,66.0 42926.0   1,6t 446826.o   .826.52            4,826.0   4,2o_8  6,   4,82.6.0   4,8260   11,8260   4,86,.0   4.82.60
Coos of ObdSa!
Soocotoono Coat                                      1,626.4      913.2                                           -               -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Qooroolog CSot                                       1,195.6   1,222.1   1,276.9   1,366.9   1,452 4   1,512.0   1,543.6   1,543.5   1,5413.    1,543.5   1,343.5   i,543.5   1,543.5  f,543.5   1,543.5   1,543.5   1,543.5   1,543.5   1,043.0   1,143.S   1,'43.o   1,543.5   1,943.5
Otol loploosasot            -          -          -         -         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~    ~     ~~~106.0  637.0  - 4120.0  100.0  -   89153     -          100.0    -          420.0      6s7.o      100.0      -         -          -          99s.s      42o.o     -
Loo Sostalo,sot '/                                     _          -    _               -          1 491.0   431 0      40l        4Cl.0    ,91 0  4091 0 3,0  .o4.4110o    491 o . 491.J                   917  C      -_         -    _-             _                      . -2-,0
Total UOsa                                  2,822.0  2135.3   1,276.9   1,366.9   2,o43.4   2,640.0   2.034.6   2,454.5   2,134.5   2,034.3   2,30.0   2,030.6   2,134.5  2,034.6   0,151.7  2,9.3   1,643.5 1,543.5   1,543.5   1,543.5   0,559.0   '.367.3   1,313.5
600  Cas. ..,ro-s/Dsfioit              .    o.o      1,.03.5 __sZ.4   1,378.4   1.730.3   1,473.7   1 589.6   2.729.4  2343.9   2,601.5   4.791.517.91.5 1            .o   73.S   0,631.7  0, .  0.5   2,371.7  02,64".7  . 30186.5   3,22.5_3,282.7   3,280.7   2,2837.0   ,362,.    3,282.5
/ Loan Rpayabll ia 15 years so-    l a  -yser grace per-od 8 Sj% iot rest 2.r  2etO.  t    naat is eqaivelese so C r.afsg
o-pitas eliah ie either self-ftvlssed or a gat face Carerast tab-sgh LID4 sad D8700,
MAy 23, 1975



ANNEX  9
Table 26
TANZANIL
DAIRY EJVELOPMET PROJECT
SALEH HAJE; Dairy Farm - . Unit of 356 Cows
MERD PROJECTION
_ERD C_)LO~I~IKB                                             Y E A R S  1-25
r}l:RD COMPIOSITION           - 
___ __ __ ___ t~   31  2  3     4       5      6      .7      8   9-25
COWS above  2½- years
BEGINNING(} OF YFAR                  55     385     391    400    400    400    400    400    400
plus FIRST CALF HEIFERS            420      92     129    120    120    120     120    120    12Q
nlus PURCHASED                    (475)
TOTAL MATED                        475     477     520    520    520    520     520    520    520
less DEATHS                         19      14      16     16     16     16      16    1       16
less CUIL.LED                       71      72     104    104    104    104     104    104    104
CN HAND END YEAR                   385    391      400    400    400    400     400    400    4oo
YEIFERS  1-2 years
BEGINNIhNG OF YEAR                   23     133     152    175    175    175      175    175    175
plus PURCHkSED                      70      70      70     70     70
less DEATHS                          1       4       5      5      5      5       5       5      5
less SAIES                                  70      97    120     50     50      50     50      50
ON HAND EMID YEAR                   22      59      50    120    120    120     12o    120    120
CALVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORDN                        332     358     390    390    390    390     390    390    390
FEMALES BORN                        166     179     195    195    195    195     195    195    195
less DEATHS                         33      27      20     20     20     20      20      20 g   20
ON HAND END YEAR                   133    152      175    175    175    175     175    175    175
MALES BORN                          166     179     195    195    195    195     195    195    195
less DEATHS                         33      27      20     20     20     20       20     20     20
ON HAND END YEAR                   133     152     175    175    175    175     175    175    175
STEERS
BEGIINING OF PERIOD
less DEATHS
(over 2 year period)
less SALES
IEDD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HERD                          540    602      625    625 , 625    625      625    625  625
TOTAL ANIlAL UNITS                  407.   1450     450    450  ,450    450      450  1450    450
SUPPLEMENTARY FEED                .                                                           ;
COSTS     (T' 000 T. Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                          6.7     7.6    8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS            40.5   52.7    63.0  72.0   76.5  .85.5   94.5  103.5 :103.5
XRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR            270     293     300    300    300  ' 300     300    300    300
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)          1,900   2,100   2,300  2,500  2,600  2,800   3,000 3,200  3,200
NIIK FOR CALVES                   49.8   58.7    60.0   60.0  60.0   60.0   60.0  60.0   60.0
PURCHASES             UNITS
COWS                  No.            55
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.           420
BREEDING HEIFERS   No.            70      70      70     70      70
SALES
SAU-K E.000 kgs                   463.2   556.6  '630.0  690.0  720.0  780.0 .840.0  900.0 900.0
CULL COWS             No.            71     72      104    104    104    104     104   104    104
HEIFERS               H1o.                   70      97     50     50     50      50    50      50
STEERStas 2 months                 133    152      175    175    175    175      175    175    175
calsves )
HED  COEFFICIENTS
CULLING               76             15     15       20     20     20     20      20    20    20
CALVING RATE          %              70      75      75     75     75   175    1751   75    75
CALF MORTATITY        %              20      15      10     10     10     10      10    lo    10
ADULT MORTALITY       %               4      3       3       3      3      3       3      3      3
Assumptions for Saleh Hajeh Farm:
1.  70 1st calf heifers are transferred from Kitulo Farm during first five years of operation.
2. Bull calves are sold at 2 months to permit herd expansion to 400 on the same investment
and operating costs.
3. Heavy culling of low producers takes place at the end of second lactation.
February 14, 1975



TANIZANIA
DAIRY DEVMOEIfT PROJECT
Saleh Hajebi/ Dairy F?r2m Investment Costs
Year 1              Year 2                    Years 1-2               Foreign        Foreign
Investment Category                 Unit   Unit Cost        Units    Cost        Units    Cost       Total Units    Total Cost       Exha            Exchange
Tah '000
Building and Installations
Manager's House                  No        50.0           1       50.0        -        -               1           50.0            40              20.0
Assistant Manager's House        No        10.0           1       10.0        -        -               1           10.0            40               4.0
Junior Staff Housing             No        16.0           3       48.0        -        -               3           48.0            40              19.2
Staff Housing                    No         7.0          15      105.0       4        28.0            19          133.0            40              53.2
Office/Store                     No        44.0           1       44.o        -        -               1           44.0            40              17.6
Silage Pit                       No        28.0           4      112.0       -         -               4          112.0            40              44.8
Spray Race                       No        22.0           1       22.0       -         -               1           22.0            40               8.8
Water Troughs                    No         0.5          15         7.5       9        4.5            24           12.0             40              5.0
Calf-Feeders                     No         8.0           1        8.0        -        -               1            8.0            40               3.2
Milking Parlor                   No        75.0            1       75.0       -        -               1           75.0             40             30.0
Sheltered Feed Yard              No        65.0           1       65.o       -         -               1           65.o            40             26.0
Roads                            Km         3.5           2        7.0        -        -               2            7.0            40               2.8
Fencing                          Km         2.5          10       25.0                22.5            19           47.5            6o              28.5
Subtotal                                                    578.5               55.0                         633.5                          263.1
Irrigation WorksgJ                   Set       240.0          1      240.0        -        -               1          240.0             75            180.0
Machinery and EQuipment
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                No        50.0           1       50.0        -        -               1           50.0            60              30.0
Motorcycle                           No         9.0           -                    1      9.0             1            9.0            60               5.4
Tractor           70-80 H P          No        85.0           2      170.0        -        -               2          170.0            85             144.5
Tractor           50-60 H P.         No        67.0           2      134.0        -        -               1          134.0            85             113.9
Plough                               No         9.0           2       18.0        -        -               2           18.0            85              15.3
Harrow-Tine                          No         6.5           1        6.5        -        -               1            6.5             85              5.5
Marrow-Disc                          Ifo       11.0           1       11.0        -        -               1            l1.o            85              9.4
Cultivator                           No         6.o           2       12.0        -        -               2           12.0            85              10.2
Rotary Slasher                       No         9.0           1        9.0        -        -               1            9.0            85               7.7
Grarder lFlade                       No         6.0           1        6.o        -        -               1            6.o            85               5.1
Front end Loader                     No        11.0           -         -         1       11.0             1           11.0            85               9.4
Manure Spreader                      No        19.0           -         -         1       19.0             1           19.0            85              16.2
Trailer - 3 Ton                      No        12.0           1       12.0        -        -               1           12.0            85              10.2
Trailer Forage                       No        20.0           3       60.0        -        -               3           60.0            85              51.0
Engine and Pumap                     No        12.0           1       12.0        -        -               1           12.0            85              10.2
Portable Electric Fences             Set        3.5           2        7.0        -        -               2            7.0            85               6.0
Veterinary Equipmen,t end Tools      Set       25.0           1       25.0        -        -               1           25.0            85              21.3
Hammer Mill                          No        10.0           -        -         1       10.0              1           10.0            85              8.5
Milking Machine                      No       100.0           1      100.0        -        -               1          100.0            85              85.o
Furniture and Office Equipment       Set       20.0           1       20.0        -        -               1           20.0            85              17.0
Cambridge Roller                     So        12.0           1       12.0        -        -               1           12.0            85              10.2
Maize Planter                        No        17.0           1       17.0        -        -               1           17.0            85              14.5
Fertilizer Spreader                  Wo         4.5           1        4.5        -        -               1            45.            85               3.8
Weed Sprayer                         So         8.0           1         8.0       -        -               1            8.0            85               6.8
Forage Harvester                     No       110.0           1      110.0        -        -               1          110.0            85              93.5
Generator                            No        28.0           1       28.0        -        -               1           28.0            85              23.8
Spares for Machinery and
Equipment _@  20% Cost              _         -             -      166.4        -        9.8             -          176.2             J             146.9
Subtotal                                             -      998.4       -       58.8              -        1,057.2             -            881.3
Livestock Purchase -./               No         1.6           -        -       545      839.9             545         839.0                     -
Incremental Operating Expenses]/                                      511.0      _         _               _          511.0                           198.9
Total Investment                      -         _             -    2,327.9        -      952.8             _        3,280.7             -           1,523.3
Farm was developed about 20 years ago, but was abandoned entirely in 1970-71. No building  and equipment can be used for future development.
/ Estimate under Irrigation:  headworks (Tsh 50,000), Distribution system (piping)(approximately  Tsh 150,000) and drainage (Tsh 40,000).
See Table 28    . Total operating expensees financed in Year One.
S  Rates varying between 30% and 85%.
H/ Meifers purchased at Tab 1600.
February 12. 1975



AX 3
TANMZATA
DAIRY DEVUOPMIT FROJECT
Rsauh Haleh liry Farm: Sales and Operating Exenses
(Tib '000)
Before          _--_-----------__----------_    Year   ----------------------------------
Development         1          2         3         4          5         6          7         8          9
Sales ,
Cull Cows                                                           -        71.0       72.0     104.0     104..0    104.0      104.0      104.0     104.0
Meifers                                                             -          -        98.0     135.8      168.0      70.0       70.0      70.0       70.0
Calves                                                              -        26.6       30.4      35.0       35.0      35.0       35.0      35.0      35.0
Milk                                                                -       579.0      695.8     787.5      862.5     900.0      975.0    1050.0    1125.0
Total Sales                                                    -       676.6     896.2    1,06.3    1169.5    1109.0   1184.o    1259.0   1334.0
Operating Expenses 7/
Salaries and Wages
Manager                                                            50.0
Assistant Manager                                                  20.0
Field Assistm,t/Clerk                                              24.6
Milkers                                                            29.4
Calf Attendant                                                      3.3
Herdsmen                                                            6.6
Drivers                                                             9.4
Skilled Labor                                                       9.4
Unskilled Labor                                                     9.3
Watchmen                                                            6.2
Sub Total                                                    1.68.2    168.2     168.2      168.2     168.2      168.2     168.2      168.2     168.2
Livestock Husbandry
Veterinary and Drugs 3/                                             -        14.7       16.2      16.2       16.2      16.2       16.2      36.2      16.2
Artificial Insemination  /                                          -        10.0       10.0      10.1       10.1      10.1       10.1      10.1      10.1
Hygiene and Miscellaneous 5/                                        -         1.o        1.8       1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8
Calf Feed 7/                                                        -         6.7        7.6       8.8        8.8       8.8        8.8       3.8       8.8
Concentrates 7/                                                     -        40.5       52.7      63.o       72.0      76.5      85.5       94.5     103.5
Minerals and Licks 8/                                               -         3.9        5.7       5.9        5.9       5.9        5.9       5.9        5.9
Sub Total                                                               77.4       94.0     105.8     114.8      119.9     128.3      1.7.3     146.3
Crop and Pasture /
Maize Silage                                                       .0.0)                                    _
May                                                                68.0 
Sub Total                                                     E8.0      88.o      88.0       88.o      88.o       88.0      88.o       S8.o      88.o
Fuel, Lubricants and Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants L/                                            113.6     113.6
Motor Bike Allovance ll                                                       3.0
Repairs - Vehicles                                                 73.2      73.2
-  Tractor/Engine       2/
- Other machinery                                                  43.0      48.o
Fencing/Wster Supply                                            .-        37.0
-  Other Fixed Assets
Small Tools                                                         *.0       5OJ
Sub Total                                                    235.8     279.8     279.8      279.8     279.8      279.8     279.8      279.8     279.8
Miscellaneous Accouats,/                                           1                       0      15.0      15.0       15.0      15.1       15.0      15.0
Livestock Pnrchuse  2/                                              -         -        112.0     112.0     112.0      112.0        -         -
Total Operating Expenses                                          511.0     628.2      757.0     768.8      777.8     782.9     679.3      688.3     697.3
Net Operating Income                                             (511.0)       F.)    139.2      293.5      391.7 37 .1         504.7      570.7      36.7
iJ Sales: Cull Cows I Tsh 1,000
Heifers   Tal 1,400
Steers e Tah 1,000, calves 3 Tsh 200.
Milk t Tsh 1.25
7/ Salaries and Wages: Based on parastetal rates, including leave pa , nignt allowance, provident fund and staff endowment schemes.
3/ Veterinary and Drugs:  Based on all cattle receiving twl  inoculati,.ns per year against PMI; annual inoculations against blackquarter
and Anthrax; regular treatment against internal parasites; and otbor ailments. Young heifers will be vaccinated against brucellosis.
7/ Artificial Inseminations:  Based on the total number of cows mated.
;I Rygiene and Miscellaseous:  Covers cost of cleaning materials, silling  sachm ne rubber replacnsent parts and enall miscellaneous items.
Calf Feeds:  Based on number of calvea at the end of the year multJplieJ by fifty'Coefficie.t.
7/ Concentrates:  Calculated on the following basisl  Milk Yield (kE   -  ,500 (k     + 150 a No. Lactations x Price
7/ Minerals and Licks:  Based on a mixture of salt; boneneal and  eiselo being available throbghout the year.
-- 2/  Copsad P.stures:  Based on irrigated maize for silege asd Rho lea  gra;s p-ature (5 yearn)  and,maize for silage
5sthyeari)In roation with maize as the nurse crop.  Expected onto uS y.elo are as fcllswa:
Contiouous maize (double :ruaped) - 200 scres @ 20 tons/acre
Rotation maize (single cropl d) - 30 scres at 15 tons/acre
3O/  Fueld and Lubricants:  Based on one tractor operating 1,500 hour. BFer y-er sIth an average fuel consumption of one liter per hour;
one landrover operating 36,000 km per year with an average fuel !oil Amp-,.on of 0.25 sliter per km; one water pump engine at Tsh 8,000
per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours per year with en avs:- agl ft.1 c,nsumption of 4 liters per hour; and lubriceats at 12.5 percent
of fuel cost.
Motor Bike Allowance:  Covers mileage allowance paid to Assiatar. M onsg.r fr use of Motor bike on farm activities.
/   Repairs:  Based on standard estimates and experience of large soule f-as.
/   Miscellaneous Accounts:  Covers costs of telephone, postage, otetio.nary,air travel uniforms and miscellaneous adsinistrative accounts.
February 12, 1975



ANNEX 9
TANZAXIA                                                                                                                 TInble 29
DAIRY I)EVE10O.RYT PROJECT
(T.h '000)
D.elopJomt         3.         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9         10         1t        12        13         14         15        16         17        18i        19         20         21        22 - 2
Sounre of   od
Onlina                                                 -        676.6     896.2    1062.3   1169.5    1109.0    1194.0    1259.0         1334.0     1334.3    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0           1334.0
Developmet Loam ad G-eat                              2327.9                -          -         -         -          -         -           -          -          -         -         -          -          -         -         -          -          -         -          --
CotelS1  re                                  2327.9  1629.4      996.2    1060.3    1169.5    1109.0    1194.9    1259.0       1334.0      1334.0    1334,0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0    1334.0           1334.0
Dses of 0X,nd.
In-et-et Coot                                         1816.9   952.8        -          -         -         -          -    -                -                     -       69-        69-                                                            69 -       67-
opereting foot                                         510.0   628,2      757.0      768.8     777.8     782.9      679.3      6688.3     697.3       6973      69.        9.9.3  697.3                   697.3      697,3     697.3      697.9     693          9.      697.3       697.3
CopIto.l Oepl-omoet                                      -        -                    -        50.0     355.5        -       194.0        69.0       I.        586.0      21.0      50.0                 8 4.0     484.5      38.0        ---                           636.0 
boo Deetolnent j/                                        --                            -       536.0     536.0      536.0     536.0       736.0      556.0      536.0     536.0      536.0     p36.0      536.0       -         -          ----                                        -
Total Uees                                   2327.9  1581.2      743.0     754.8    1349.8    1659.8    1215,3    1418.3        1300.3     1209.3    1815.3    1250.3    1279.3    1229.3    1313.3    1177.8         743.3     693.3      693.3      693.3    1329.3       693.3
A,oOO? Cooh Surpl105/Oefict                               -      48.2     153.2      307.5   ~180.3)   (550.8)    (31.3)   (159.3)         31.7       104.7    (481.3)      87.7      54.7     104.7       20.7      156.2     590.7      640.7     640.7      640.7        6.7      640.7
L/ .m5 RePaYnble 10 15 yeare 00th   4-yean geno  p-riod N 8j% Jntereol per annm,   -at amut J. aqiv.lant to -eoledg m9pit.l
wo;ioh io ai-tllr aelf-linoaod em   a st f-o  Govermet thtoaghe LIIA and DARCO,
m.y 23, 1972



ANNEX 9
Table 30
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TANGA COMPLEX Dairy Farm-5 Units of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
BE-              -- ~ Y E A R S 1-25
HERD CO1i?CSITION
_______  _________  1  2  3     4      5     6       7     8     9-25
COWiS above 2-'i years
3EGIh-,Wl-N  OF YEAR                     420    689   683  1,223  1,591   1,605  1,757  1,757
'lus FlllST CATF ,13IERS                         154   827   843   494    676   553   553
plus ?URCHASED                    500    400
TOTAL lfXfED                      500    820    843  1,510  2,o66  2,o85   2,281  2,310, 2, 310
less DEATHS                        20     33      34    60    62    63         68    69    69
less CULLED                        60     98    126   227   413   417    456   461   461
CN HAND END YEAR                 420    689    683  1,223  1,591  1,605   1,757  1,780  1,780
RBEIFERS  1-2 years
BEGINNING OF YEAR                          160    262   269   509   697    704   769   779
plus PURCHASED                                   600   600
less DEATHS                                6      35    26    15    21        21    23    23
less SALES                                                                   130,  193   203
ON HALND ED YEAR                         154    827   843   494   676    553   553   553
CALVES   0-1 year
CALVES BOEN                        376    616    632 1,132  1,550  1,564   1,710  1,732  1,732
FEMALES BORN                       188    308    316   566   775   782    855   866  .866
less DEATHS                        28      46     47    57    78    78         86    87    87
ON HkAND E'D YEAR                160    262    269   509   697   704    769   775   779
MALES BORN                         188    308    316   566   775   782    855   866   866
less DEATHS                        28     46      47    57    78    78        76    87    87
ON HAND EiiD YEAR                 160    262    269   509   697   704    779   779   779
STEERS
BEGINNING OF PERIOD                               160   262   269   509    697   704   779
less DEATHS                                       13    21    16    31        42    42    46
(over 2 year period)
less SALES                                       147  .241   253   478    655   662   723
IThD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HERD                        740  1,367   2,o48  3,084 3,479  3,689   3,848  3,891 ;3,691
TOTAL ANfiL UNITS                  420    843  1,510  2,o66  9,085  2,281   2,310  2,333  2,333
SUPPLEMENTARY FEED
COSTS      ('000 T.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                        16.0   26.2   26.9  50.9  69.7  70.4   76.9 1 77.9  77.9
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS           42.5   77.6   84.5  151.3  178.9  198.7  257.0  300.4 :380.5
PRODUCTION                                                                          i
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR           315    517    512   917  q,193  1,204   1,318  1,335 11,335
MILK PER LACTATIONi (kgs)        1,800   1,900   2,000  2, 000 1,900  2,000  2,200  2,400 2,800
MILK FOR CALVES                  56.4   92.4   94.8  169.8  232.5  234.6  256.5  259.8: 259.8
PURCHASES            UNITS
COWS                 No.
MIRST CALF HEIFERS   No.
F, BREEDING HEIFERS  No.            500   400    60o    600
SAIES
ilaELK           .000 kgs.,      510.6   889.9  929.2 1,664.2 2,034.2 2,173.424643.112,944., 3,AU.2
CULL COIS            No.           60      98    126   227   413   417    456   461   461
IIEIFERS             No.                                                      130   193   203
STEERS               No.                          147   241   253   478    655   662   723
EERD COEFFICIENTS
CU^LLING             %             12      12      15    15    20    20        20    20    20
CALVING RATE                       75      75      75    75    75    75        75    75.  75
CALF MORTALITY                      1 *5   15   15    10    10    10           10    10    10
ADULT ECORTALITY     %              4       4       4      4      3     3       3      3      3
FIVE UNITS:
KANG1E II
MIVUlONI I + II
AZIMIO I + II
February 14, 1975



TANZANA                                                                        snrl3
DAIRY l?hVI!C?T IBOJECT
Tanga DCairy Cslev: Thvatfent Coat
ornign    Foreiga
Inveatmeot Category                    UsiA   Unit Cost       Year 1            er 2 2                           Yea  14     r     L4a    nTot       HE4 ;      l r      Exchange    Xchange
Inv  tn__ t C________Untt  tl_it Co_t   Units   Coat   Uinits   Co i t                            Pas   owe    UnM&_  __Cot    U____  CoOP t                                         (Tsh'000)
Bul ding and Inxtallation
manager's House                         No        50.0         1     50 0       1     50.0      1     50.0     1      50.0      -      -           4           200.0       40          80.0
Asaistant Manager's House               No        38.0         1     38.o      1      38.0      1     38.0     1      38.o      -                  4           152.0       40         60.8
Junior Staff Housing                    No        16.o         -               2      32.o      -              -               -       -           2             32.0      40          12.8
8taff  ousiso                           No         7.o         -      -       10     70.0    10       70.0    18     126.o    -        -          38           266.0       40        106.4
Oice/Store                              No        44.o         -      -        1     44.o       1     44.o     1      44.o    -        -           3           132.0       40         52.8
Implesent Shed/Work6hop                 No        17.0                         I -  1  17.0     1     17.0     2      34,0     -       -           4            68.0       40         27.2
Spry RBace                              No       22.0          -      -        1     22.0       1     22.0     2      44.0     -       -           4            88.0       40         35.2
Roods                                   KM         3.0                         8      24.0      -      -       -       -               -                         24.0      40           9.6
silage Pit                              No       28.0          2     56.o      1     28.0       1     28.o     2      56.o     -      -            6           168.0       40         67.2
Calf Feeder                             No         8.o         2     16.o      1       8.o      1      8.o     2      16,o     -       -           6            48.0       40         19.2
Piping                                  K4        17.0         8    136.0      8    136.o       8    136.0   16      272.0    -        -          40           680.0       75        510.0
Water Troughs                           No         0.5        33     16.5    33       16.5    33      i6.5   66       33.0      -      -         165            82.5       40          33.0
Fencing                                 7;M        2.5        6o    150.0     30     75.o    30       75.0   60      150.0    -        -         180           45o.0       60        270.0
Milking Perlor                          No        75.0         1     75.0      1      75.0      1     75.0     1      75.0    -        -           4           300.0       40        120.0
Subtotal                                 -            -    5          -    635.5      -   579.5       -     938.0    -       -            -         2690.5                1404.2
Irrigation Works                                  30.0         -      -               30.0      -     30.0                5-         -                          60.        7          45.0
Machimery and squlipment
Four-Wheel-Drive vehicle                No        50.0         1     50.0      1      50.0      1     50.0     1      50.0    -        -           4           200 .0    60          120.0
Motor like                              No         9.0         1      9.0      1       9.0      1      9.0     2      18.0    -        -           5            45 0      60          27.0
Tractor        50-60 B.p.               No        67.0         1     67.o       1    67.o       1     67.o     1      67 .0    -       -           4           268 .0    85          227.8
Tractor        70-80 H.P.               No        85.o         2    170.o      2    170.0       2    170.o     2     170 .0    -       -           8           680.o      85         578.0
Plough                                  No         9.0         1      9.0      1       9.0      1      9.0     1       9.0    -        -           4            36 .0    85           30.6
HerrowTine                              No         6.5         -      -         1      6.5      1      6.5     1       6.5      -      -           3            19.5      83          16.6
Harrow Dic                              No        71.0         1     11.0      1      11.0      1     11.0     1      71 .0    -       -           4             4 .o    85           374
Seed Drill                              No        18.o         -      -        1     180        -      -       -       -       -      -            1            18 .0    85           15.3
Manure SpreAder                         No         4.5         1      4.5      1       4.5      -      -       -       -        -      -           2             9 .0    85            7.7
Cultivator                              No         6.5         1      6.5      -       -        -      _       -       -        -      -           1             6.5      85           5.5
Rotexr Slasher                          No         9.0         1      9.0      1       9.0      1      9.0     2      18.o    -        -           545 .0    85                       38.3
HIy Mower                               No         6.o         -      -         1      6.0      1      6.o     -        -                          2             12 .0    85           10.2
,ay Rsake                               No         5.5         -      -        1      5.5       1      5.5     -       -        -      -           2            11 .0    85            9.4
Hay Baler                               N Ho      50.0         -      -        1     50.0       1     50.0     -       -        -      -           2           100 .0    85           85.0
Forsgo Harvester                        ifs       70.                 -               77.0      1     70.0     -       -        -      -           2            iLo .7    Ss          119.0
Trailer - 3 Ton                         No        120.         1     12.0      1      12.o      1     12.0     2      24.0    -                    5 5          6o.0    85            51.0
Trailer Forage                          No        20.0         3     60.o      2      40.0      2     40.0     2      40 .0    -       -           9           180 .0    85          153.0
Grader B7ade                            No         6.o         -      -        1      6.o       -      -                                           1             6 .0    85            5.1
Esgine and rusp                         No        12.0         1     12.0      1     12.0       1     12.0     2      24 .0    -       -           5            60.o    85            51.0
Portable Electric Fences                 Set       3.5         2      7.0      1       3.5      1      3.5     2       7 .0    -       -           6            21 .0    85           17.9
Churns                                  No         0.25       90     22.5     90     22.5    90       22.5   180      45 .0    -       -         450           112.,      85          95.6
Veterinary Equip-nt & Tools              Set      25.0         1     25.0      1     25.0       1     25.0     -       -        -      -           3            75.0      e5          63.8
Furniture & Office EqUipment            Set       20.D         -      -        1     20.0       1     20.0     1      20 .0    -       -           3            60.o      85          51.0
MHlking Machine & Equipeent             No       100.0         1    100.0       1    100.0      1    100.0     1     100 .0    -       -           4            4oo.o     85         340.0
Spares for Machinery and
Equipmeot  @ 20% Coat                  -         -           -    114.945.3                   -    139.6     -     121.9     -                   -           521.7                 431.2
Subtotal                        -        t            _    689.4           8 71.      -   837.6       -     731.4     -      -            -          1:3±                 2,587.4
Livestock Purchase /                    No         1,6         -      -      500    800.0   409    64o.0  600        960.o   6oo    96o.o    210.0           3,36D. 0 
Incresental Operating Expesea/           _                          350.7      -   400o         -    375.      -     750.0     -       -           _         1,875. 7                474.4
Total Tavestoenta                                              - -  -  1,577.6  -  2,737.3      _  2,462.1     -   3,37914     -      960,0        _        11,116.4               4,511.0
H/ Heofer purchased for Teh 1600
./ See Table 32. Total operating expenses financed in Year One of the starting of each unit.
3/    At rates varying between 304 and 85%.
February 12, 1975



AhNE 9
TAN&ANZ                                                                                T4ble3
DAIRY DER'EL0f_r! PB6EOT
Tanga Dairy Complex: Salea and Operating Expenses
(Tsh '200)
Before      _--__________-  Year -______________________________________________________________
Developnent      1           2                     4           5          6           7          8           9       10         11-25
Sales t                                    
Cull Cows                                                       60.0        98.0       126.0      227.0       413.0      417.0      456.0      46L.o      461.0    461.0
Heifers                                               -           -          -           -           -          -          -        182.0      270.2    284.2       284.2
Steers                                                -           -          -         1147.0      241.0      253.0      478.o      655.0      662.0    723.0    723.0
Milk                                                  -         638.3    1112.4       L161.5    2080.3       2542.8    2716.8    3303.9    3680.3   4347.8   4347.8
Total Sales                                   -         698.3    1210.4        144i4.5    2548.3    3208.8    3611.8        4596.9    5073.5   5816.0   5816.0
Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages g/
Manager                                              39.6        79.2       88.8       198.0
Assistant Manager                                    20.7        41.4       62.1       103.5
Field Assistant/Clerk                               16.4         32.8       41.o        58.4
MiLkers                                               7.6        15.2       22.8        29.2
Calf Attendant                                       3.3         6.6         9.9        16. 5
Herd.s.en                                           13.2         26.4       46.2        66.o    _                  ___                                                  _
Drivers                                             18.8        37.6        56.4        79.9   /
Mechanics                                            8.2        16.4        24.6        24.6 ;
Skilled Labor                                        9.1        18.8        28.2        37.6
Unskilled Labor                                     12.43       24.3        37.2        49.6
Watcheen                                             6.z        12.4        18.6        i8.6 J
Subtotal.                                   155.8       311.6      435.8       681.9      681.9       681.9     661.9       661.9      661.9      681.9    681.9
Livestock Husbandry
Veterinary & Drugs 3/                                -          15.1       30.3         54.4       74.4       75.1       82.1       83.2        84.o      84.o
Artificial Insemination  /                           -          10.5       17.2        17.7        31.7       43.4       47.5        48.5       48.5      48.5
E.vgiene & Miscellaneous                             -           1.9        3.1         3.1         5.5        7.2        7.2        7.9         8.0       8.0
Calf Feeds ]                                         -          16.0       26.2        26.9        50.9       69.7       70.4       76.9        77.9      77.9
Concentrates 7/                                      -          42.5       27.6        84.5       151.3      128.9      198.7      257.0       300.4     380.5
Minerals & Licks &/                                  -           4.0        8.0        14.3        19.6       19.8       21.7       21.9        22.2      22.2
Subtotal                                      -         90.0 °      12.4       200.9      333.4       344.1      427.6      495.4      541.0    621.1    621.1
Cropo & Pasture 9/
Maize Silage                                         4.2         8.4       12.6         21.0                                                        -
MaY                                                 16.8        33.6_  _50.4           84.0 5 1:*
Subtotal                                    21.0         42.0       63.0       105.0      105.0       105.0      105.0      105.0      105.0      105.0    105.0
Fuel, Lubricants & Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants  /                              48.1        96.2      144.3       291.3
Motor Bike Allowance  /                              2.5         5.0        7.5        12.5
Repairs-Vehicles  .g/                               59.6       111.6      179.4       239.6
- Tractors/Engine
-  Other Machinery                                  27.6        70.3      110.2       140.0
-  Fencing/Water Supply )                          16.1         36.1       54.4        97.8
-  Other Fixed Assets
Small Tools                                          5-         100__   15.0           25.0  J
Subtotal                                   ,L58.9       329.2      510.8       806.2      806.2       806.2      806.2      806.2      806.2     806.2    806.2
Miscellaneous Accounts 315.0                                      30.0_  4_.o            75.0        75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0      75.0       75.0
Total Operating Expenses                             350.7       802.8    1167.0       1869.0      2001.5     2012.2    2095.7    2163.5    2209.1    2289.2   2289.2
Net Operating Income                                (350.7)    (104.5)       43.4     (4355.)       546.8    1196.6    1516.1    2433.4    2864.4   3526.8   3526.8
/  Sales:  CuLl Cows i Tab 1,000
Heifers @ Tsh 1,400
Steers 0 Tsh 1,000
Milk @ Tsh 1.25
2/ Salaries and Wages:  Based on parastatal rates, including leav! pa,), iight allowance, provident fund and staff endowoent schemes.
]/ Veterinary and Drugs:  Based on all cattle receiving two i:oculaticas per Year against FMD; annual inoculations against blackquarter
and Anthrax; regular treatment against internal parasites; and oth,r di1me.ts. Young heifers will be vaccinated against brucellosis.
/ Artificial Inseminations: Based on the total number of cows nated,
2/ Hvgiene and Miscellaneous: Covers cost of cleaning materials, xlflin;; :achine rubber replacement parts and small miscellaneous items.
CLlf Feeds:  Based on nunber of calves at the end of the year rmltiplpei by fifty/Coefficient.
/  Concentrates:  Calculated en tbe following basisl  Milk Yisald (ks_            (_kes) + 150 x No. Lactations x Price
9/ Minerals and Licks:  Based ox a mixture of salt; boneneal ;sd riees la scing available throigbout the year.
2/Crops  and Pastures:  Based on Irrigated mainze for silage and MRodes grass pasture (5 years) and-iaaze for silage
5th yesr1 in rotation with maize as the nurse crop.  Expe-ted anns-l yields are as follows:
Continuous mainze (dlublir crcppc!d) - 200 acres.@ 20 tons/acre
Rotation maize (single cropjed  - 30 acres at 15 tons/acre
Fuel and Lubrican1d:  Based on one tractor operating 1,50) hotr.  jar year with an average fuel consumption of one liter per hour;
one lsndrover operating 36,000 kn per year wh an average fue          - cosasoption of 0.25 -liter per-km; one water pump engine at Tsh 8,000
per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours per year with an a, e5e j;u2l consumption of 4 liters per hoor; and lubricats at 12.5 percent
of fuel cost.
Motor Bike Allowance:  Covers mileage allowance paid to Assist,.nt 5, sorgar for use of motor bike on farm  activIties.
/ Repairs: Based on standard estimates and experience of la:-ge scale fi.rns.
M/ iscellaneous Accounts:  Covers costs of telephone, postage, st atic sey, air travel uniforms and miscellaneous administrative accounts.
February 12, 1975



A4W2Z 9
-fl7033
TeA 05)AI
B o    --  ------------------------------------------- - -- - --        -----__  -----     ----  -----  --- ------------ __        ------ -          ----__  _____  ------  --  ------   -- -- ------     -------  -------     -- -- --   -   -- __  -------__ __ _ _ ____ ___ __ _ _____ __ _ __ __ __
Dsnelopaeat     1          2         3          4          5         6         7          6         9          10        11         12        13         14         15        16         17         iS        19         20        21         22         23         24        2,
Soonoes orf Floods
Sales                                            -      -  698.3' 1,lo..4  1,434.5   2,548.3   3,208.8   3,611.8   4,596.9   5,073.5   5,816.0   5,625.0   5,825.0   5,825.0   5,605.0   5,825.0   5,825.0   5,622.0   9,855.0   5,620.0   5,325.0   5,627.00 1,85.0   t,B25.0   5,62.    5,62.0
Deyelopaeot Loa1 and Grant                    1.577.6  2,737.3                      4          o462.1                                          -                    -                     -         -          -         -          -
Total Sources                        2,115.1 3R415.6   3.672.5   4.81.39   3.508.R   3,208.8  3,622.8   4,596.9   5,073.5   5.816.0   5,825,0   5,825.0   5,827,0   5,651.   5,825.0   5,825.0   5.825.0   5.826 0  7.82s,0  5,825.0   5.823.o  '.825.0   5,825.2   5,825.0  7.625,0
UFee of Y dS
Inveattlet Cost                                2,226.9   2,337.3  2,087.1    2,629.4    960.0        -                    -          -
op.,atOa  Cos                                    372.7     822.8  3,869.2    2,022.5   2,222.5   2,02322   2,295.7   2,263.5   2,229.1   2,289.2   2,269.  22 2,28           2,.2    2  ,289.2   2,289.2   2.163,2    ,293.2   2,269.2   2.3,2892,9.             2262 2232 2292 2292 2232
Capit.  2p   e-nt                                                                                                         40  0                 30        590       45        4695 247 2,289.2              2,29       2,29     228. 2899. 228. 2289~ 2289 222898
DCapI.tal Eelo.,et                              -                               -           50.2     316.3      324.5~   404.0       51il.0    234.0      519.0     495.0      466.5     473.0      i34.0)    505.5      706.7      396.2     326.5       50.5      563.0     701.2      532.7      539.0
Loec Osetalloacat 11                             -                ---     -                -       1,572.2   1,572.0    1 5572.0    1,572.0    1,572.O 1,572.2    1,572.0   1,572.2   1,572.2                  _         _          _         _                     _          _         _          _          _
Total U..e                           iR77 6   3.040o1 3,956.1        4,130.9   4,583.5   3.900.7  3.992.2  4615Q.9 41,8s 1  6 0q5.2   4,368.2  4,356.2    4,327.7   4,334.2  3,995.2    2,794.7   2,797.9   2,686.4  2.615,7   2,-09.2   2,852.2  2.990,2  0,621.7   2,626.2   2,289.2
Aona.l Cash S100l-s/DefiAit                      _       . 39 .5 (666; - -3.o   1,07512) (691'9)    (382.4)   (Isyl)               579.1   1,720.8  1,43568   1,459.8   1,488.3 1,486.8          1,820,8    3,221.3   3,01061   3,130.6  3,200.3  3,476.0   2,903.68  -,25.6   2,394.3   2, 97.6   3726.8
L/ lan repayable in 15 Fears fro- the date  f loa  with l-year grane p-riod 8 8   interest per anno=, kept sAeot be eqal4relea t0
W.kiPg  spiteJ  hbnch is eith-r self-fi-aard en a gea fern G4vetaat thasa   LIDA  ad DA2C0,
slAy 23, 1273



ANNEX 9
Table 34
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVEhOPMNT PROJECT
UTEGI Daixy Farm - 2 Units of 356 Cows
HERD PROJECTION
BF, -                   ~~~~~Y EA R 5  1-20                 -
iTF3 COMOlEwSITION        -                                  1;A-       )
_  @T     .1      2      3      4      5      6        7     8     9-20
COO   above 2'-½ years
BEGINNINIG OF YEAR               i          292    6021 712   712    712         712   712    712
plus FIRST CALF 1EIFERS                    442    266    156   156    156    156   156    156
Olus ?,UbCHASED                    360
TOTAL MATED                        360    734    868    868    868    868    868   868    868
less DEATIS                         114     22      26     26     26     26      26    26    26
less CULLFD                         54     116    130   130    130   130        130   130   130
CN HAYD END YEAR                   292     602    712    712   712    712       712   712    712
EYIFERS  1-2 years
BEG1INNINU OF YEAR                   60     167    234    276   276    276       276   276    276
plus PURCHASED                     400     107
less DEATHS                         18       8       7      8      8      8       8      8      8
less SALES                                          71    112    112   112      112    112    112
ON HAND END YEAR                   442    266      156    156    156    156    156    156    156
CALVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORN                         252     550     650   650    650   650       650   650    650
FEMALES BCRU                        126     275    325    325   325    325    325    325    325
less DEAT-HS'                       19      41      49     49     49     49      49    49    149
ON HlAND EN:D YEAR                 167    234    276    276    276    276    276    276;  276
MALES 3HORN                         126     275    325    325    325    325      325   325    325
less DEATHS                         19      41      49    49      49    49       49     49    149
ON HAND END YEAR                   107     234    276    276   276    276       276   276!  276
STEERS
BEGINING OF PERIOD                                  107   234   276    276    276   276    276
less DEATHS                                          6    114    17    17        17    17    17
(over 2 year period)
less SALES                                         101    220   259    259      259   259   259
HERD BUILD-UP
TOTAL HERD                        1,008   1,336   1,420  1,1420  1,1420  1,420   1,420 1,420  1,'420
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS                  734     868    868    868    868    868      868   868    868
SUPPLEMENTARY FEED
COSTST     O ( 000 T.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS                         13.7   23.4   27.6  27.6  27.6  27.6   26.7  26.7  26.7
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS            30.6   67.8   80.1  88.1  88.1  104.1  120.2  152.2  152.2
?RODUCTION
NO. FJLL LACTATIONS/YEAR            204     452    534   534   534   534         534   534   534
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)          1,900   1,900   1,900  2,000  2,000  2,200   2,100  2,800  2,800
MILK FOR CALVES                    37.8   82.5   97.5  97.5  97.5  97.5   97.5  97.5  97.5
PURCHASES             UNITS
COWS                  No.
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.           360
F1 BREEDING HEIFERS   No.           400     107
SALES
KILK              .000 kgn        349.8  776.3  917.1  970.5  970.5  1,C077.3 1,184.3 1,397.7 1,307.7
CULL COW;S            No.            54    110,    130   130    130        130   130  130   130
HEIFERS               No.                            71   112    112    112    112    112    112
STEERS                Ko.                           101    220    259    259    259   259    259
HERD COEFFICIENTS        
CULOEFG               % CI15                 15      15    15      15    15       15    15    15
CALVING RATE          %              70      75      75    75    75       75      75    75    75
CALF MOURTAIJLTY      %              15      15      15    10    10    10         1 10    10    10
ADULT ICRTALITY       %               4       3       3     3       3      3       3      3     3
February 14, 1975



Table 35
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPME21T PROJECT
Utegi Dairy Fam   Inv7estment Cost
(TTh '000)
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3         Years 1-3         Foreign     Foreign
Investment Category                     Unit    Unit Cost    Units    cost    Units    Cost    Unit    Cost   T`tal    Totl    Exchange    Excbange
Buildines and Installations
Manager's House                          No.         50.0        1       50.0     1        50.0     -       -       2      100.0        4o          4o.o
Assistant Manager's House                No.        38.0         1       38.0     1        38.0     -       -       2       76.o        4o          30.4
Junior Staff Housing                     No.        16.o         2       32.0     2        32.0     -       -       4       64.o        40          25.6
Staff Housing                            No.         7.0        17      119.0    61       427.0     -       -      78      546.o        40         218.4
Office/Store                             No.        44.0         1       44.o     -         -                       1       44.o        40          17.6
Implement Shed/Workshop                  No.        17.0         1       17.0     -         -                       1       17.0        40           6.8
Spray Race                               No.        22.0         1       22.0     1        22.0     -         -     2       44.o       40           17.6
Roads                                    KM          3.0 o       4       12.0     4       12.0      -       -       8       24.o       40            9.6
Silage pit                               No.        28.o         1       28.0     1        28.0     -       -       2       56.o       4o           22.4
Calf Feeders                             No.         8.o         1        8.0     1         8.0     -       -       2       16.o       40            6.4
Piping                                  K1          17.0         8      136.o     8      136.o      -       -     16       272.0       75          204.o
Water Troughs                            No.          0.5       16        8.0    50        25.0     -       -      66       33.0       4o           13.2
Fencing                                  KM          2.5        12.9     32.3    67.1    167.7      -       -      80      200.0       60          120.0
Milking Shed                             No.        75.0         1       75.0     -         -       -       -       1       75.0       40           30.0
Subtotal                                                       621.3            945.7      -       -           1,567.0                   762.o
Machinery end Equipment
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                 No.        50.0         1       50.0     1        50.0     -       -      2       100.0       60          60.0
Motor Bike                               No.         9.0         1        9.0     1         9.0     -       -      2        18.0       60           10.8
Tractor      50-60 H.P.                  No.        67.0         -        -       3       201.0     -       -      3       201.0       85         170.9
Tractor      70-80 H.P.                  No.        85.0         1       85       1        85.0     -       -      2       170.0       85         1144.5
Plough                                   No.         9.0         1        9       1         9.0     -              2        18.0       85          15.3
Harrow Tine                              No.         6.5         1        6.5     1         6.5     -       -      2        13.0       85          11.1
Harrow Disc                              No.        11.0         1       11.0     1        11.0     -       -      2        22.0       85          18.7
Cambridge Roller                         No.        12.0         1       12.0     -         -                      1       12.0        85          10.2
Maize Planter                            No.        17.0         1       17.0     -         -       -       -      1       17.0        85          14.5
Seed Drill                               No.        18.0         1       18.0     -         -       -       -      1       18.0        85          15.3
Weed Sprayer                             So.         8.0         1        8.0     -         -                      1         8.0       85           6.8
Fertilizer Spreader                      No.         4.5         1        4.5     1         4.5     -       -      2        9.0        85           7.7
Cultivator                               No.         6.5         1        6.5     1         6.5     -       -      2       13.0        85          11.1
Rotary Slasher                           No.         9.0         1        9.0     1        9.0      -       -      2       18.0        85          15.3
Hay Mower                                No.         6.0         1        6.o     -         -       -       -      1        6.o        85           5.1
Hay Rake                                 No.         5.5         1        5.5     -         -       -       -      1        5.5        85           L 7
Hay Baler                                No.        50.0         1       50.0     -         -       -       -      1       50.0        85          42.5
Forage Harvester                         No.        70.0         1       70.0     1       70.0      -       -      2       140.0       85         119.0
Trailer - 3 Ton                          No.        12.0         1       12.0     1       12.0      -       -      2       24.o        85          20.4
Trailer Forage                           No.        20.0         1       20.0     2        40.0     -       -      3       60.o        85          51.0
Grader Blade                             No.         6.0         1        6.o     -         -       -       -      1        6.o       85            6.1
Engine and Pumsp                         No.        12.0         1       12.0     1       12.0      -       -     2        24.0       85           2c.4
Portable Electric Fences                 Set         3.5         2        7.0     2        7.0      -       -      4       14.0       85           11.9
Hemmer Mill                              No.        10.0         1       10.0     -         -       _       -      1       10.0       85            8.5
Churns                                   No.         0.25       67       16.7  113         28.2     -       -   180.0      45.0       85           38.3
Veterinary Equipmnent and Tools          Set        25.0         1       25.0     1        25.0     -       -      2       50.0       85           42.5
Furniture and Office Equipment           Set        20.0         1       20.0     1       20.0      -       -      2       40.o       85           34.o
Milking Machine                          No.       100.0         1      100.0     -         -                      I -  1  100.0      85           85.0
No.         1.6
Spares for Machinery
and Equipment @ 20% Cost                                              121.2            121.2      -       -             242.3      g/          201.2
Subtotal                                                      726.9             726.9                         1,453.8                 1,201.8
Livestock Purchase                                                              76o    1,216.0    107   171.E           1,387.2
Incremental Operating Expenses 1/                                      659.2                                              659.E                   187.3
Total Investment                                            2.007.4            2_              1."            5,067.2                 2,151.1
1/ See Table 36. Total operating expenses financed in Year One.
2/ B Rates varying between 30% and 85%
February 12, 1975



tCIINZ                                                           ANh
DAIRI DEV=IOPST PROTET                                                           6
Vtogi Dairy Farm: (Tles dni Operating Exesnses
LTE '0OOJ
R  or f        - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - --    Year --  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Devslp"ment       1         2         3          4         5         6         7         8          9         .0        lr25
Cull CoWE                                               -        54.0     110.0    130. 0     130.0     130.0    130 0       130.0     130.0    130.0
Heifers                                                                     -        99.4    156.8      156.8      156 8     156.8     156.8   1256.8
Steers                                                 -                            101.0     220.0    259.0    259.0        259.0    259.0      259.0
Milk                                                    -       437.3    970.4  1,146.4  1,213.1  1,213.1   1,346.6   1,480.4   1,747.1  1.747.1
Total Sales                                       -        491.3  1_080.4  1.476.8  1,719.9   1,758.9   1,892.4  2,026.2  2,292.9   2,292.9
Operating ExPenses
Salaries and Wages
Manager                                                79.2
Assistant Manager                                      41.4
Field Assistant/Clerk                                  24.6
Milkers                                                22.8
Calf Attendant                                          6.6
Herdsmen                                               12.4
Drivers                                                32.9
Mechanic                                                8.2
Skilled Labor                                          14.1
Unskilled Labor                                       24.5
Watchmen9
Subtotal                                        276.3    276.3    276.3    276.3    276.3    276.3           276.3     276.3      276.3     276.3     276.3
Livestock Husbandry
Veterinary & Drugs3/                                    -        26.4      31.2      31.2      31.2
Artificial Inseminati,n4/                               -         7.6      15.4      18.2      18.2
Hygiene and Miscellaneous                              -          6.o       8.o       8.5       8.5  1
Calf Feeds §/                                          -        13.7       23,4      27.6      27.6
Concentrates 7/                                        -        30.6       67.8      80.1      88.1
Minerals & Licks 2/                                               7.0       8.2       8.2       8.2 J
Subtotal                                          -        91.3      154.0    173.8    181.8    i81.8    181.8    181.8    181.8    181.8    181.8
Crops and Pastures
Wheat                                                 20.4 )
Maize Silage                                           8.4 4                                                                    _
Hay                                                   33.6.J
Subtotal                                         62.4      62.4      62.4       62.4      62.4      62.4      62.4      62.4       62.4      62.4      62.4
Fuel. Lubricauts & Repairs
Fuel and Lubricants 10/                               92.5 
Motor Bike Allowance 11                                 5.0
Repairs - Vehicles  )                                 77.2
- Other Machinery                                     62.5
- Fencing/Water Supply                                43.3
-  Other Fixed Assets
Small Tools                                           10.0
Subtotal                                        290.5    290.5       290.5     290.5     290.5     290.5     290.5    290.5       290.5     290.5
Miscellaneous Accounta L3/                            30.0      30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0      30.0
Total Operating Expenses                               659.2    750.5    813.1        833.0    841.0    841.0    84i.o        841.0    841.o    841 0        84: 6
Net Operating Income                                   (659.?)   (259.2)    267.2    643.8    878.9   9817.9   I.oO5i.4   1,185,2   1,451.9
/  Sales: Cull Cows @ Tsb 1,000
Heifers 9 Tah 1,400
Steers @ Tsh 1,000
Milk @ Tsh 1.25
i/ Salaries and Wages: Based on parastatal rates, including leave pay, night allowance, provident fund and staff endowment schemes.
3/ Veterinary and Drugs: Based on all cattle receiving two inoculations per year against FMD; annual inoculations against blackquartes anthrax; regular treatmrnt
against internal parasites; and other ailments. Young heifers will be vaccinated agaip.t brucellosis.
W  Artificial Inseminations:  Based on the number of cows mated.
hygiene and Miscellaneous:  Covers cost of cleaning materials, milking machine rubber replacement parts and small miscellaneous items.
'Calf Feeds: Based on number of calves at this end of the year multiplied by fifty/Coefficient.
J Concentrates:  Calculated on the following basis:  Milk Yield  kga) - 1,500 (keE)+ 150 x No. Lactations x Price.
4
M Minerals and Licks: Based on a mixture of salt; bonemeal and minerals being available throughout the year.
2/ Crops and Pastures:  Based mu irrigated maize for Silage and Mhodes grass pasture (5 years) and maize for Silage (5th year) in rotation with maize as the
nurse crop. Expected animal yields are as follows: Continuous maize (double cropped) - 200 acres @ 20 tons/acre.
Rotation maize (single cropped) - 30 acres at 15 tons/acre.
Lo/ Fuel and Lubricants: Based on one tractor operating 1,500 tons per year witb an average fuel consumption of one liter per hour; one landrover operating
36,0 voik per year with an average fuel consumption of 0.25 liter per kI; one water pump engine at Tsh 8,000 per year; a generator operating 3,650 hours
per year with an average fuel consumption of 4 liters per hour; and lubricants at 12.5 per cent of fuel cost.
/ Motor Eike Allowance: Covers mileage allowance paid to Assistant Manager for use of motor bike on farm activities.
/ -epairs: Based on standard estimates and experience of large scale fares.
/ Miscellaneous Accounts:  Covers costs of telephone; portage; stationery, air travel, uniforms and miscellaneous administration accounts.
February 12, 1975



TANZANIA                                                                                                                                                                             Table 37
LdI70 DE223ODE5T= PROJECT
Ut,ei DeC20' Fire,       O.nte,tel >00 Olin
- - --4 - - - -- -- - -   -- - - - - - - -- -- - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- -- -- - - -- - -- ----------- - - - - --- - - - -- - -- - - - --- - -  -- - -- - -   - J -  -   - - - - -- - - -- - -    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - -- - -  - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -   - - -- --- - - - - - -____________-________!-________________-_-_ -___- _ _ _ ________-_____-____  ____-____
lecele9Selt            1           2           3           4            5           6           7           e            9            :         11           72          13          14          15           16          17           1)          19          20           21          22        23 25
ESarce of Rinds
Stles                                                            -           491.3    1,080.4    1,476.8   1,719.9    1,758.9    1,892.4    2,026.2    2,292.9               2,292.9    2,292.9       2,292.9    2.?92.3    2,292.9    2,292.9           2,292.q      2,292.9       2,292.9   2,292.9   2,292.9    2,292.9        2,292.9       2,292.9
Dt elip-ent lien nnd G-ent                                    1,677.8   2,002.2    1,312.0           171.2       -           -            -           -           -            -           --                        -           -           -                        -           - _         _
Titel SCciee-                                       1,677.8   2,493.5    2,392.4    1,648.0    1,719.9    1,758.9    1,892.4    2,026.2    2,292.9                2,292.9    2,292.9        2,292.9    2,292.9    2,292.3                                  2,292.9      2,292.      .29    2,292.9    2,292.9          2,292.9       2,292.9
Ire, o F -ds
Ir-ve &ernl 7ot                                               1,301.6   2,92701         560          149.           -         -           -           -           -             -8
Opera---9 Cesc                                                  659.2       75°.5        913.2       333.0       841.0       841.0        857.o       873.1       905.1        905.1        900.1        905.1       005.1       905.1        005.1       905.1      905.1        900.1        905.1       905.1        905.1        905.1         905.1
C-illal Relac-en-t                                               -           -           -             -         100.0        364.5         -         11Cc         -           633.5        633.5           -        10o.0         -          278.0       264.5      100.0                           -           -                   -             -
Loaqe Iists2intnC  3/                                            -           -           -             -         857.0       857.0        657,0       857.0       857.0        857.0        857.0                    057.0      6857.C        827.0       -          -            i            -           -
OItl U...                                         1,677.8   3,677.6    1,379.2           982.8    7,798.0    2,0620.       1,714.o   2,068.1    1,262.1          1,762.1    ?.397.6       1,762.1    1.062.1    1,712.1    2,40.1          1,069.6    1,005.1         905.1    1,905.1    1,647.8          654.3       1,221.1         905.1
A-qil Cats  Oneylns/Dsfcet                          0.0          -        f1.184.o0  1.019.2         665.2    (78.1)        (303.6)      178.4         18.1       430.B         530.8   (102.7)          530.8       430.6       530.2       .52.8    1,023.3    1,287.8    1,367.6    1,387.8    1,387.8              634.3      1,091.2       1,387.0
1/  Lae Reepnyable ic 15 yee-s Yith a 4-year genes pe1id 9' 6yX  intere.. 2S Per-  n.   Gat gtst    is eqsaealens as   abs                              -
eapital  shieb is eitbhr ..Lf-fia.-ad  or    esa=t farn-  G            -oeessat thtbenh LID7A  sAd DAYC9,
ISsy 23, 1975           i



TANZATIA
AINEX 9
DAIRY DEVELOIPEIT PROJECT                                     Table 38
Project Dairy Farms:      Semary of Investment Cost
(Tsh '000)
Foreign
----_-------_--___-_-. Year ------------------------                      Exchange
Investment Category                1           2            3           4            5        Years 1-5     Cost
Bagamoyo
Fixed Investment                    -         450.5         58.0         -            -         508.5        270
Machinery & Equipment               _          724.8        37.8                      -         762.6       6307
Cattle Purchase                               100.0        80.0                                 185.0          -
Working Capital                     -          450.9         -           -            -         450.9        138.9
Subtotal                   _       1,726.2       175.8                      -       1,902.0      1,048.6
Iwambi
Fixed Investment                    -         285.5                -                  -         285.5        176.8
Machinery & Equipment               -       1,166.3          -           -            -       1,166.3        731.3
Cattle Purchase                     -            -           -         160.0          -         160.0          -
Working Capital                     -          431.7         -           -            -         431.7        130.5
Subtotal                   -       1,883.5         -          160.0         -       2,o43.5      1,038.6
Kitulo
Fixed Investment                  332.5         84.5         -           -            -         417.0        280.8
Machinery and Equipment           629.4        113.4         -            -           -         742.8        629.0
Cattle Purchase                     -            -
Working Capital                   496.0o               -                              -         496.o        189.4
Subtotal              1,457.9        197.9                                  -        1,655.8     1,099.2
Ngerengere
Fixed Investment                1,000.5       216.5          -           -            -       1,217.0        436.7
Machinery & Equipment             523.2         60.6         -           -            -         883.8        716.2
Cattle Purchase                     -
Working Capital                   692.0          -                                              692.0        215.7
Subtotal              2,515.7        277.1                                           2,792.8     1,368.6
Patel
Fixed Investment                    -            -         982.5                                982.5        536.7
Machinery & Equipment               -            -         799.2                                799.2        661.8
Cattle Purchase                     -            -         562 o                                56g.o
Working Capital                     _            _         596.9                                596.9        161.5
Subtotal                   -           -       2,940.6          -            -      2,940.6      1,360.o
Rongai
Fixed Investment                  470.0        335.0                                            805.0         409.6
Machinery & Equipment           1,156.4        578.2                                          1,734.6       1,433.5
Cattle Purchase                     -            -
Working Capital                 1 95.6                       -                                1,195.6        323.6
Subtotal              2,822.0        913.2                                           3,735.2     2,i66.7
Saleh Hajeh
Fixed Investment                    -            _         818.5         55s.         -         874.o         443.1
Machinery & Equipment               _            _         998.4         58.8         -       1,057.2        881.3
Cattle Purchase                     _            _           -          839.0         -          839. o
Working Capital                     -            _         511.0          -           -          511.0       198.9
Subtotal                   -           -       2,327.9        952.8          -       3,280.7      1,523.3
Tanga
Fixed Investment                  537.5       665.5        609.5       938.0          -       2,750.5      1,449.2
Machinery & Equipment             689.4       871.8        837.6       731.4          _        5,880.7     2,587.4
Cattle Purchase                     -         800.0       64o..o       960.0        960.0     3,360.0          -
Working Capital                   350.7       400.0        375.0       750.0          -       1,875.0        474.4
S2:btotal             1,577.6      2,737.3     2,462.1      3,379.4        360.0    11,116.4     4,511.o
Utegi
Fixed Investment                    -            -         621.3       945.7          -       1,567.0        762.0
Machinery & Equipment               -            -         726.9       726.9          -       1,453.8      1,201.8
Cattle Purchase                     -            -           -       1,216.0        171.2     1,387.2          -
Working Capital                     -            -         659.2          -           -          659.2       187.3
Subtotal                         -              2,007.4    2,888.6      , 171.2     5,067.2      2,151.1
Total Investment Cost           8,373.2     7,735.2     9,913.8      7,380.8     1,131.2    34,534.2    16,267.1
See Tables 2, 6, 10, 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35.
March 26, 1975



TANWTAS1A                                  9
DA3RY DEV;O:IEN'T PROJECT
Modal of-    J ¢owt             . - 20 cow
IBE-~~~~ Il  A R S  1-25;   , 
1!RD COMPOSITION                       1   2       3                       i A
_         142_ _3_                      5_    61    71  8    9-25
CO0W!S  about ;F years
BEGIhNfIG OF YER                           23      18    15    17   19         20    20    20
pI-s FIRST CALFi MIFERS                    -       -      6      6    5        4      4      4
plus PURCHASED
TOTAL MATED                                23     18    21    23   24         24    24   .24
less DEATHS                                 2       1     1      1    1        1      1:t   iL
less CULLED                                 3       2     3      3    3        3      3      3
C HAND END YEAR            o              18      15    17    19   20         20    20    20
HEIFERS  1-2 yeara
BEGINNING OF YEAR                                   6      6      7    7        8      8      8
plus PTJRCHASED                    25
leas DEATHS                         2              -     -       1    1        1      1      1
less SALES.                                        -             1    2        3      3      3
ON AN END YEAR             °       23              6      6      5    4        4      4     4
CALVES   0-1 year
CALVES PORN                                 16      14    16    16   18        18     18    18
FEMALES BORI.                                8       7     8      8    9        9      9      9
less DEATHS                                 2       1      1     1     1       1      1      1
ON H     MEND YEAR                          6       6     7      7    8        8      8      8
KAILES BORN                                  8       7      8     8    9        9      9      9
less DEATHS                                 2       1      1    I    I        1      1      1
ON HAND EM  YEAR           o                6       6      7     7   '8        8      8      8
STEERS
BEGINNING OF PERIOD                                                6    6       7      7      8
Itss DEATHS                                                       1    1        1     1      1
(over 2 year period)
less SALES                                                        5   -        6      6      7
HERD BUILD-UP
TOTALHEED                   o       23      30      33    37    38   40        40    40   '40
TOTAL ANIMALUNITS           °       23      18      21    23    24   24        24    24    2k
SllPPLEWTARY FEED
COSTS      ( 000 T.Sh.)
CALF FEEDS
CONCENTRATE FOR MILKERS
PRODUCTION
NO. FULL LACTATIONS/YEAR                    12      11    12    13   14        14     14    14
MILK PER LACTATION (kgs)                  1,600 1,800 1,800 1,800   1,800 1,800 1,800  1,800
LESS MILK FOR CALVES                        3.2   2.8    3.2 . 3.2   3.6    3.6  3.6   3.6
PURCHASES            UNITS
COWS                 No.
FIRST CALF HEIFERS    No.
F. BREEDISG HEIFES  No.
F                      .             25      1                  . 1                    1
SALES
IL-K              .000 kgs                 16.0  17.0   18.4  20.2   21.6   21.6  21.6  21.6
CULL CdS             No.                   3      2       3    3        3       3      3
HEIFERS              NO.                                        1       2       3      i      3
STEERS               No.                                        5       5      6       6      7
HERD COEFFICIENTS
CULLINGr             %               12   112      12   12       12    12    12    12        12
CALVING RATE         ,                      70     70   70       70    70    70    70        70
CALF MORTAIaTY                              2 .20  15   15  - 5    15    15 -         15      15
ADULT MORTALITY                                     5  8  8  5    5         -  5       5      5
February 11, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ujamaa Dairy Farm-Model: Investment Cost
(Tsh '000)
Year 1        Total    Total   Foreign      Foreign
Unit    Unit Cost    Units    Cost    Units    Cost   Exchange    Exchange
%        (Tsh'000)
Fixed Investment
Building and Installation
Milking Shed (Pen)              No.          7.0       1         7.0     1        7.0     40            2.8
Water Troughs                    No.         0.5       1        0.5      1        0.5     40            0.2
Fencing                          KM          2.5       1        2.5      1        2.5     60            1.5
Water Supply - Piping            KM         17.0       0.3      5.1      0.3      5.1      75           3.8
Small Utensils and Tools        No.          -         -        0.5      -        0.5     40            0.2
Pasture Development               -          -         -        0.1      -        0.1     40            -
Subtotal                                              15.7              15.7                   8.5
Livestock Investment
Bulls                           No.          1.6       1        1.6      1        1.6       -           -
Heifers                         No.          1.6      25       40.0    25        40.0 x
Subtotal                -           -         -       41.6     -        41.6      --
Operating Cost 1/                -           -         -        7-4               7-4                   2.2
Total Investment        -           -         -       64.7      -        4.7      _           10.7
L See Table 41. Total operating expenses financed in year one.
February 11, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Uiamaa Dairy Farm Model: Sales and Operating Expenses
(Tsh '000)
Before              -- - - ------  ------        Year        -------------    ----- - -
Sales                            Development      1        2       3       4        5       6        7       8        9       10-25
Cull Cows                          -            -       3.0      2.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
Steers                             -            -       -        -       -        5.0     5.0      6.o     6.0      7.0      7.0
Heifers                            -            -       -        -       -        1.4     2.8      4.2     4.2      4.2      4.2
Milk (Tsh 1.0)                     -            -      16.0    17.0    18.4    20.2    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6
Total Sales                -            -      19.0    19.0_ __21.4    29.6    32.4    34.8   31.8    35.8    35.8
Operating Expenses
Wages 1/                           -            4.8      4.8     4.8     4.8      4.8     4.8      4.8      4.8     4.8      4.8
Livestock Husbandry 2/              -           2.6      2.0     2.4      2.6     2.6      2.7     2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7
Repairs and Maintenance             -           -        0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8     o.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8
Total Operating Cost       -            7.4     7.6      8.0     8.2      8.2     8.3      8.3     8.3      8.3     8.3
Net Operating Income                  -          (7.4)   11.4    11.0    13.2    21.4    24.1    26.5    26.5    27.5    27.5
1/  1 Milker and 1 Herdsman.                                                                                                             !
2/ Veterinary Cost @ Tsh 36/Animal Unit, Minerals and Supplementary Feed 0 Tsh 80/A.U.
February 11, 1975



TANZAN
DAIRY DEWLOWPENT PROJECT
UjsI. Deiry Fa.n mode1; l neraental Cash Flo-
(Th  o000)
B f     o     r     ---             ----            - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Yea - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Development           1           2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9            10            11           12           13           14           15            16 - 25
Sourc- of Funds
Salea                                                   -          19.0          19.0        21.4         29.6         32.4         34.8          34.8        35.8          35.8         35.8         35.8         35.8         35.8          35.8           35.8
Developmnt Loan and Grant                              64.7        _              -                                     -                         -           -             -             -             -            -           -
Total Sources                                64.7        19.0          19.0        21.4         29.6         32.4         34.8          34.8        35.8          35.8         35.8          35.8         35.8         35.8         35.8           35.8
Uoes of Furds
I-veetMent Cost                                        57.3         -             -           -            -                  -             -            -            -            -             -                  -            -             -              -
Operating Cost                                          7.4         7.6           8.0         8.2          8.2          8.3          8.3           8.3         8.3           8.3          8.3          8.3          8.3          8.3           8.3            8.3
Loan Inotall,esnt 1/                                    -                                                  9.6          9.6          9.6           9.6         9.6           9.6          9.6          9.6          9.6           9.6          9.6
Total Uaea                                  64.7         7.6           8.0         8.2         17.8         17.9         17.9          17.9        17.9          17.9         17.9          17.9         17.9         17.9         17.9             8.3
Anneal Cash Surplus/Deficit            0.0              -          11.4          11.0        13.2         11.8         14.5         16.9          16.9        17.9          17.9         17.9         17.9          17.9         17.9         17.9           27.5
1/  Loan Repayable in 15 yeare with a 4-year fra.c period   8 83% interest per ensue.  Loan anount ia equivalent to inveet, nt cost 1aa  -orking capital
February 18, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY IEVELOH4ENT PROJDCT
Ujamaa Dairy Farm (50 Ujamas): Investment Cost
(Tsh '000)
Year 1         Total     Total Foreign    Foreign
Fixed Investmient             Unit    Unit Cost    Units       Cost     Units     Cost  Exchange   Exchange
___________-                                    (Tsh   '000)
Building and Installation
Mi-iking Shed (NFn)                   NO         7.0          50      350.0      50.0    350.0    40          140.0
WaterTroughs                          NO         0.5          50       25.0      50.0       25.0    40         10.0
Fencing                               KM         2.5          50      125.0       50.0     125.0    60         75.0
Water Supply - Piping                 KM        17.0          15      255.0       t5.0     225.0    75        168.8
Small Utensils and Tools              NO         -             -       25.0        -        25.0    40         10.0
Pasture Development                    -         -             -                   -         5.0    40          2.0
Sub Total                    -         -           K _      785.0                                   4058
Livestock Investment
Bulls                                 NO         1.6          50       80.0       50.0      80.0     - _
Heifers                               NO         1.6        1250     2000.0    1250.0   2000.0       -
Sub Total                    -         -             -     2080.0        -      2080.0      --
Operating Expenses 1/                  -         -             -      370.0        -       370.0      -       110.5
Total Investtment             -         -                   3235.                25-         -       516.3
1/ See Table  41 . Total operating expenses financed in year one.
February 1U., 1975



TANZAINIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ujamaa Dairy Farms (50 UJamaas): Sales and Operating Expenses
(Tsh '000)
Before       ---------------------------------------              year ----------------------------------------------------
Development      1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9         10-25
Sales
Cows                                             -          150.0       100.0       150.0       150.0       150.0       150.0       150.0        150.0       150.0
Steers                                                        -           -           -         250.0       250.0       300.0       300.0        350.0       350.0
Heifers                                                        -           -          -          70.0       140.0       210.0       210.0        210.0        210.0
Milk (Tsh 1.0)                        -           -          800.0       850.0      920.0    1,010.0    1,080.0    1,080.0    1,080.0           1,080.0    1,080.0
Total Sales                 -           -          950.0       950.0    1,070.0    1,480.0    1,620.0    1,740.0    1,740.0           1,790.0    1,790.0
Operating Expenses
Wages 1/                              -           240.0       240.0       240.0      240.0        240.0      240.o       240.0        240.0       240.0       240.0
Livestock Husbandry 2/                -          130.0       100.0       120.0       130.0       130.0       135.0       135.0        135.0       135.0       135.0
Repairs and Maintenance               -           -           40.0        40.0        4o.o        4o.o        40.O        4o.o         4o.o        4O.O        40.0
Total Operating Cost        -           370.0      380.0       400.0       410.0        410.0      415.0       415.0        415.0       415.0       415.0
Net Operating Income                  -          (370.0)     570.0       550.0       660.o    1,070.0    1,205.0    1,325.0         1,325.0   1,375.0        1,375.0
1/ 1 Milker and 1 Herdsman.
2/ Veterinary Cost @ Tsh 36/Animal Unit and Minerals and Supplementary Feed @ Tsh 80/A.U.
February 12, 1975



TAN2ZAN1A
DAIRY DEVELOPMWENT PROJECT
Ulanaa Dairy FarXs (50 Uiamae3    Incr_ental C; h Flom
(Teh OOO)
Before              -   -  -  -                                                                          Year  -    -    -  -  -  -    -  -  -    -  -    -   -   -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -   -  -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -   -   - 
D valop.ent           1           2          3           4           5         6           7           8          9           10           11           12           13          14           15           16 - 25
Source of Funds
SIs                                                         -        950.0       950.0      1,070.0    1,480.0    1,620.0   1,740.0    1,740.0    1,790.0         1,790.0      1,790.0    1,79D.0       1,790.0      1,790.0      1,790.0        1,790.0
DeveloopMnt Loan and Graot                                3235.0        _-                                  -           -         -        -- =        ___          ___          ___                     ___:_ __                      7  
Total Sources                                    3,235.0     950.0       950.0      1.070.0    1,480.0    1.620.0   1.740,       1,740,0    1790.         1,790.0     1,790.0    1,790.0        1.790.0      1,790.0      1,790.0        1.790.0
Uses of Fonds
I-veoto,ent Coat                                          2,865.0        -          -           -           -          -          -           -          -            -            -            -            -            -            -              -
Operating Cost                                              370.0     380.0       400.0        410.0       410.0      415.0      415.0       415.0      415.0        415.0        415.0       415.0         415.0        415.0        415.0          415.0
Loon Snocalloent 1/                                          -           _          _           _          570.0      570.0      570.0       570.0      570.0        570.0        570.0       570.          570.0        570.0        570.            -
Total Useo                                       3,235.0     380.0       400.0        410.0      980.0       985.0      985.0      985.0       985.0        985.0        985.0      985.0         985.0        985.0        985.0           415.0
Annual Cash Sorplus/Deficit                                  -         570.0      550.0        660.0       500.0       635.0     755.0       755.0      005.0        805.0        805.0       805.0         805.0        805.0        805.0        1,375.0
1/ Loan Repayobl. 1i  15 years, with a 4-year grace period @ 80% interest per an-n. Loan amount is equivalent to investment cost less working capital.
February 18, 1975



ANNEX 9
TANZUNIA                                 Table 6
DAIRY  ;ELOVE1INT PROJECT
Model of WEST LAKE Heifer Breeding Unit
HERD PROJECTION
|,    ll  ~~21  3   4   5!  61                          89-25
tOI3  about 2½l years                                                                3      3
MKINNING OF YEAR                           3,90   3,960  3,960, 3,960  3,960 3,960  3,960  3,960
plus FIRST CALF HEIFERS
plus PURCHASED                   6,000   2,040   2,040  2,040  2,040  2,040  2,040  2,040  2,040
TOTAL MATED                      6,000   6,000   6,000  6,000  6,000  6,ooo  6,ooo  6,ooo  6,ooo
less DEATHS                        240    240      240,  240   240   240   240   240   240
less CULLED                      1,800   1,800   1,800  1,800  1,800o  1,800 '1,800  1,800  1,800
CM HANMD DD YEAR                 3,960   3,960   3,960  3,960  3,960. 3,960  3,960  3,960  3,960
EEIFERS   1-2 years
BEGD'fhINO OF YEAR                        1,912   1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912
plus PUMCFASED
less DE5ATHS                                77      77    77    77    77,   77    77    77
less SALE                    .           1,835   1,835  1,835  1,835; 1,835 i1,835  1,835  1,835
0U KM  ]DM YEAR                              0       0      0      0      0o     0      0     0
'ALVES    0-1 year
CALVES BORN                    .4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500 14,500 4,500  4,500  4,500
IMT,ES BORT                       2,250   2,250  2,250' 2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500  2,500
leos D;E.THS                       338     338    338    338   338   338    338   338    338
CM HAND END EAR                  1,912   1,912   1,912  1,912 .1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912
MALES BORN                        2,250  2,250  2,250  2,250 2,250 2,250 2,250 2,250  2,250
leas DEATHS                        338    338    338  - 338   338   338   338   338    338
SOW AT WalLIN0G                  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912 1,912 .1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912
D  BUILD-UP                I    I
____.__ .
CALF FEEDS                        239.0  239.O  239.0  239.0 .239.0  239.0  239.0 239.0  239.0
fEEL N XT FOR MILT s             120.0  120.0 120.0  120.0 120.0  120.0  120.0 120.0  120.0
PURCHASES          UNITS
CCWS              1NO.           6,000   2,040   2,04C 2,040  2,o40 2,040   2,040 2,040 2,040
SALES                            .
CULL CoWS          No.
1,800   1,800  1,800 1,800  1,800  1,800  1,800 1,800 1,800
No.                   1,835  1,835 1,835  1,835  1,835. 1,835 1,835 1,835
MALE CALVES -      No.
8 months                   1,912   1,912  1,912 1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912  1,912 .1,912
NEvR COERICIINTS
CULLING     --   %                  30       30      30    30      30    30       30    30    30
CALVING RATE       %                75       75      75   75       75    75       75    75   75
CALFW MOTALITY     %                15       15    i15   15        15    15       15    15   15
ADULT MRTALITr    %                  4        4       4    4        4      4       4      4     4
February 11, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVEL0PMENT PROJECT
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit:Investment Costs
(T.Shs. '000)
Foreign          Foreign
Unit          Year 1                Year 2                   Years 1-2                   Exchange          Exebauge
Investment Categoryl/                                 Unit      Cost       Units      Cost      Units      Cost      Total Units       Total Cost                          (T.ShB'000)
Building and Installation
Manager's House                                        No.      100.0        1       100.0         -        -              1              100.0              40                 40.0
Assistant Manager's House                              No.       38.0        1        38.0         -        -             1                38.0              40                 15.2
Inseminators' Houses                                   No.      15.0         6        90.0         -        -             6                90.0              4o                 36.0
Herdsmen Houses                                        No.        7.0        6        42.0         -        -             6                42.0              40                 16.8
Office/Store                                           No.       40.o        1        40.o         -        -             1                40.0              4o                 16.0
Nitrogen Plant                                         No.      350.0        1       350.0         -        -              1              350.0              75                262.5
Water Troughs                                          No.        1.0       24        24.0         -        -             24               24.0              40                  9.6
Artificial Insemination Points                         No.       12.0        4        48.o         -        -              4               48.0              40                 19.2
Feed Storage                                           No.       10.0        4        40.o         -        -             4                40.0              40                 16.0
Tank Molasses                                          No.        5.0        2        10.0         -        -             2                10.0              40                  4.0
Fencing                                                Km         2.0      314       628.0         -        -            314              628.0              60                376.8
Sub-Total                  -           -        -      1,410.0         -        -              -            1,410.0                                812.1
D-amsa                                                 No.       15.0        2        30.0         -        -              2               30.0              75                 22.5
Machinery and Equipment
Four-wheel Drive Vehicle                               No.       50.0        1        50.0         -        -              1               50.0              60                 30.0
Tractor  30-40 H.P.                                    No.       50.2        1        50.2         -        -              1               50.2              85                 42.7
Trailer                                                No.       12.0        2        24.0         -        -              2               24.0              85                 20.4
Sub-Total                  -           -        -        124.2         -        -                             124.2                                 93.1
Total Fixed Investment                                  -          -        -      1564.2                                               1,564.2                                927.5
Livestock Purchase 2/
Spotter Bulls                                         No.        1.0       50        50.0         -        -             50                50.0                                  -
Cows                                                  No.        1.0    6,ooo     6ooo.o        2,o40    2,040        8,o40            8,o40.o
Sub-Total                                              6,o50.0                2,040                         8, o90. o                                 -
Total Operating Expenses-'                                                           691.8         -        -                              691.8                                 59.0
Total Investment                                                                   8,306.0                2,040                        10,346.0
I/Incremental investment required to establish breeding
unit at Kitengule and Misseny± Ranches (NACO).
t/Cows (Zebu-Poran' purchased from beef operation for Tsh 1000 each
/Total operating expenses financed in Year 1 (Table 48))
February 12, 1975



TANZANIA                                        TaNN  9
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit: I remental Sales and Operating Expenses
(T.Shs. '000)
Item                                     Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Years 4-25
Salesi/
Cull cows                                                -              1,800.0         1,800.0
2-year old F-1 Heifers                                   _              2,569.0         2,569.0
Male Calves                                              -              1,147.2         1,147.2
Total Sales                                  5,516.2         5t516.2             5,156.2
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Wages
Veterinary Manager                                       84.0
Assistant Veterinary Manager                             20.7
Clerk                                                     7.0'..
Inseminators                                             72.0
Herdsmen                                                 12.6
Drivers                                                   7.0
Sub-Total                    203.3              203.3           203.3              203.3
Livestock Husbandry
Drugs3 /                                                 42.0en
Artificial Insemination Semen                           156.o
Supplementary Feed                                      24o.0
Feeding labor                                             4_ OJ-
Sub-Total                    442.0             442.0           442.0               442.0
Fuel, Lubricants and Repairs
Fuel an  Lubricants/                                     28.2
Repairs I                                                18.3             _                 _
Sub-Total                               46.5             46.5             46.5 6.
Livestock Purchase 8/    Su      a                       4 .
Total Operating Expenses                                691.8             691.8        2,73-1. __
Net Operating Income                                   (691.8)         4,824.7         2,784,4             2,784.4
/Cull cows 0 T.Shs. 1,000; Heifers @ T.Shs.1,400; Steers @ T.Shs. 600.
g/Based on parastatal rates, including leave pay, night allowance, provident fund and endowment schemes.
3/Based on a rate of T.Shs. 7/animal unit for 6,OOC cows.
s/Based on a rate of T.Shs. 26/cow-
5 Based on a rate of T.Shs. 40
/Based on one tractor operating 1,500 hours per year with an average fuel consumption of 1.1 liter
per hour; one land rover operating 36,000 kn per year with an average fuel consumPtion of 0.25 liter
per km and lubricants of 12.5 percent of fuel cost.
7/Based on standard estimates vad present experience.
W Cows purchased from beef operation for Tsh 1000 each
February 12, 1975



TANZAIkA                                                                                                                                            ANHU 9
Sable 49
4111Y D4EvRPE7W T PROJBCT
Wet Lee Heifer Breeding  it
Deeelo:eat        1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8        9         10       11        12        13       14        15        16        17       18        19        20        21        22      23,    24          25
Soar^e of Faoda
3sea,                                              -      5516.2   5516.2
-evelopae-t Lbn a-d Gret                        8306.0   2040.0       -                  -         -         -        -         -           -       -         -        -         -         -        -        -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -    -
Total Sere                              8306.0   7556.2   5516.2   5156.2   5156.2   5156.2   5156.2   5156.2   5156.2          5156.2  5156.2   5156.2   5156.2    156.2   5156.2   5156.2  5156.2   515t.2   5156.2   '156.2   51156.5  ~156.2   5156.2   t156.2   5156.2
UVee of Pmdg
nveemtent Cfet                                  6050.0   2040.0        -        -         -        -         -         -        -          #-
Operatiaa Coat                                   691.8   f731.8   2731.8   2731.8   2731.8   2731.8   2731.8   2735.6   2731.8           2711.8  2731.0   2731.8   2731.8   2731.8   2731.0   2751.0  2731.0   2791.0   2731.0   2731.0    2731.0    2731.0  2730.0    73.0    2731.8
Ca2piil Replaavat- -                                                  -        90.0                -         -       90.                                     90.0      -         -         -       90                                    90.0                                      0
Loa  Ia7esaleet 3/                                 _         _        _                1769.0   1769.0   1769.0   1769.0   1769.0        1769.0  1769.0   1769.0   1769.0   1769.0   1769.0.         -       - __-___                               _         _         _                  _
Total Uses                              8306.0   4771.0   2731.8   2821.8   4500.0   4500.8   4502.8   4590.8   4500.8          45#008  4500.8   4590.8   4500.8   4500.8   4500.0   2821.8  2731.8   °731.0   2731.0 2731.0    2731.0    2731.0  2731.0   2731.0  2731.8
oA-asi Ceeh  "I-ploe/Defaijt                       -      2784,4   2784.4   2334.4    655.4    655.4    655.4    565.4    655.4           655.4   655.4    565.4    655.4    655.4    655.4   2334.4  2424.4   2424.4   2424.4   2334.4    2424.4    2424.4  2424.4   2334.4  0424.4
10-e ReSp.Yable in 15 years eith   4 I-year grae. perkid i *  Ia_r_st per arn.  00.0t e asot is eqalr.loac en sertces
.apieal chi.a is eitehs self-fOioeeed cc a gaest fees Gov..n eat tbho-ah LIDA sad VAPCO,
4vy 23, 1975



TANZANIA
AFNEX 9
DAIRY DEVELOP3ENT PROJECT                                        Table 50
Milk Collection and Processing:  Investment Costs
(Tsh '0CC)
Foreign         Foreign
Investment Item                           Capacity/        Unit Cot        Year 1         Total        Exchange         Exchange
Unit           (Per m )         Cost          Cost                          (Tsh 'CCC)
Milk Processing
Coastal Dairy Industries Ltd.
Buildings and Installationsl/
Cold Store                           )2D,COO  Liters           3.0 )          300C.         300.0          85               255.0
Freezing Stores (2) 2/                ) 5,000   "              3.0
Processing and Packing                                         2.7           54C.o          540.o          85               459.0
Crate Store                                                    1.5           105.0          105.0          85                89.3
Services Piping Tunnel                                         1.8             45.0          45.0          85                 38.3
Platforms                                                      1.0           105.0          105.0          85                89.3
Engineering Techniques 3/                                                    150.0          150.0          85               127.5
Planning and Supervision                                                     120.0          120.0          85               1C2.0
Subtotal                                                         1,365.0        1,365.0                         1,160.4
Machinery and Equipment 4
Butter Oil Melting Unit                   400 kg/hr                            50.0          50.0          85                42.5
Milk Tank                              12,000 liters                           65.0          65.o          85                 55.3
2 Youghurt Tanks 5/                     2,000 liters          85.0           190.0          190.0          85               161.5
Filling Machine  for Cups               4,000 runs/hr                         100.0         100.0          85                 85.0
Tetra Pak T-500 DE                      3,6cc 2 liter pack/hr                160.0          160.0          85               136.0
Crate Washing Machine                  )1,000 crates/hr                        80.0          80.0          85                68.0
Crate Conveyora, 50 a                  )                                       50.0          50.0         8t                 42.5
Separator 6/                            9,000 liters/hr                       150.0         150.0          85              .127.5
Complete Sets of Spare Parts                                                  150.0         150.0          85               127.5
Pipes, Fittings. Valves
Control Panels 7]                                                              50.0          50.0          85                42.5
Installation                                                                  100.0         100.0          85                85.0
Subtotal                                                         1,145.C        1,145.0                           973.3
Regrigeration Equipment
for Cold Stores and
Chilled Water Production 8/
Compressors, Coolers and
Auxiliaries                                                                165.C          165.0         8S                140.3
Arnonia Pipevorks                                                              20.0          20.0          85                 17.0
Control Panel                                                                  30.0          30.0          85                25.5
Evaporative Condenser                                                          50.C          50.0          85                42.5
Installation                                                                   4o.o          40.0          85                34.0
Subtotal                                                           305.0          305.0                           259.3
Water Supply
Water Balance Tank                        250 m3                              150.0         150.0          85               127.5
Installation                                                                   20.C          20.0          85                17.0
Subtotal                                                           170.0          170.0                           144.5
Collection Centers
Building and Installation  9.'              2                140.3            280.6         280.6          85               238.5
Transport Eqtioment                         1                140.0            140o,0        140.           85               119.0
Subtotal                                                           420.6          420.6                           357.5
Total                                                            3,405.6        3,405.6                        2,895.0
Northern Dairies Ltd.
Collection Center 10/                       1                165.0           165.0          165.0          85               140.3
Total Investment                                                 3,570.6        3,570.6
i/  Total building volllme 3,000 m3, materials used:  cold store-floors of steel tile; walls plastered and painted.
Freering stores - floors of vitrious tiles (klinkers); -,calls plastered and painted; insulated materials in
r-crigerated stores - polystyrene. Processing and Packing - floor material - vitrious floor tiles (200 m2);
walls - cer-mic tiles (2 m), plaster and painting. Crate Store - floors of grinded cement: walls and roofs painted.
|   For local distribution uf ice cream  to be shipped from Arusha; later possibly own production of ice cream and ice
lollies.
3/  Includes water supply, lighting and ventilation.
Ii/  tot subject to import duty; included 15, for insurancre  nd freight.
5/  For pasteurizing, fussigating, fermentation and cooling of yoghurt, milking equipment with an inbuilt cooler/mixer
and stean chilled water supply.
To -facilitate cortinous processing during necessary cleaning of the second separator.
7/ To facilitate efficient "in-advance" maintenance of crucial devicesr homogenizer, plate pasteurirer, separators ard steam boilers.
N/ Not subject to import duty; includes 15d for insurance and freight.
J   Please see Table 51.
/   Please see Table 52.
February 12, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 51
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Collection and Transport: Coastal Dairy Industries
InvestmenIt Uost
(Tsh tcyO)
Investment Items                                Capacity Per Unit
Collection Centers (2)                            3,000 Liters
Buildingsal                                           35.0
Cooling Tank                                          65.0
Can Rinsini Tank                                       4.0
Water Tank_/                                            3.0
Piping                                                  2.0
Milk Pumps                                              2.0
Fencing, 'Road
Clearance and Land                                     5.0
Filters, Scale                                         9.3
Water Heater                                          10.0
Laboratory Equipment                                   3.0
Lactometers, Chemicals and
Office Equipment                                      2.0
Sub-Total                  140.3
Transport Equipment                                  Unit
7 Ton Tanker3J                                       100.0
Insulator Tankers (2)-'                               18.0
Pumping Equipment,
-De-aerator, Flow Meter                                16.0
Assembly                                                6.o
Sub-Total                  140.0
Total Investment                                     L2Q..6.
I/Light structures, erected on a concrete slab;
impregnated wood or steel framework covered with
asbestos or aluminium sheets; removable and ex-
pandable in sections.
n/For centers with problematic supply of water, in
some cases water may have to be supplied by tanker.
3/Extended chassi  to provide covered space for mill
samples, churns and pumping equipment able to suck
milk from centers; capacity 5,000 tons.
k/Movable, capacity 2.5 tons, insulated.
May 14, 1975



TANZANIA                                    ANNEX 9
DAIRY DEVELOREI¶T PROJECT                           Table 52
Milk Collection Center   Northern Dairies      ; Investment Cost
(Tsh t000-)
Investment Items                                      Capacity Per Unit
6,000 Liters)
Building!"                                                35.0
Cooling Tank                                              90.0
Can Rinsing TankJ/                                         h.o
Piping                                                     3.0
Milk Pumps                                                  2.0
Fencing, Road                                              2.0
Clearance and Land                                         5.0
Fitters, Scale                                             9.0
Water Heater                                              10.0
Laboratory Equipment                                       3.0
Lactometers, Chemicals and
Office Equipment                                          2.0
16:5.0
i/Light structure, erected on a concret.e slab;
impregnated wood or steel framework covered with
asbestos or aluminium sheets; removable and ex-
pandable in sections.
2/For centers with problematic supply of water, in
some cases water may have to be supplied by tanker.
May 114, 1975



ANNEXt 9
Table 53
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Collection Operating oDSt8/Unit
(Tsh '000)
Capacity
1,500 liters          3,000 liters
Salaries
- Manager                    7,200                  9,600
- Aasistant                 4i,200                  4,200
Fuel & Lubricants for Generator  3,600                   4,500
Repairs & Maintenance             3,000                  4,000
Chemicals, Consumables            3,000                  4,000
Average Capital Replacements     10,500                 13,600
Annual Operating Costs/Unit      31,500                 37,900
Per kg. at 50% utilization (cents) 11.5                   6.92
Per kg. at 80% utilization (cents)  7.2                   4.33
February 14, 1975



MIDY RLOPHZO? PROJ2CT
soChboal Servicee and Project ZsetraciSn  Inveatant Projection
(Tah' 0005)
Tntal Years     Foretgn Exchangs    Forsian Rxcbange
Invlawmnt Catlsory                           Unit     Unit Cost    Year 1       Year 2    Year 3       Year 4      Ysar 5          1-5 I         o                   (T.Shs  0005
Technical Assistnce
Larno Scale Farns
GrouP Farn Managers                                 .an-Year     210.0        84C.0       840.0     1,050.0      840.0      420.0        3,990.0                  85              3,391.5
Heifer Brooding tnit Ranch Manager                               210.0         21C.0      210.0        210.0     210.0       210.0       1,050.0                  85                892.5
Machinery Maintenance Specialist                       "         210.0         210.0      210.0        210.0     210.0      210.0        1,050.0                  85                892.5
Dairy Husbandry SpJcielit                             '         210.0         210.0      210.0       210.0      210.0      210.0        1,050.0                  85                892.5
DSirty Ecnorist (1ccl)                                            35.0          35.0       35.0         35.0      35.0       35.0          175.0                   -
Pasture/Fodder Spocialist                                     - 210.0          210.0      210.0        210.0       -           -           630.0                  85                535.5
Fern SOrocture$C-nsslrtna.                                       140.0         140.0        -            -         -           -           140.0                  S5                119.0
Dairy Marketing and Proesoaing Coeslat.t                          80.0          -           -           80.0       _           -            80.0                  85                 68.0
Irrigption Consltant                                  "          140.0        140.0       140.0                    -          -            280.0                  85                230.0
Sub-TOtal                                     1,995.0    i,855.0      2,005.0   1,505.0    1,005.0         8,445.0                                  7,029.5
AJnl_ Sealth - Applied Investigational Wark
Veterinary E-n.ist                                               21.          210.0       21000       210.0        -          -            630.0                  85               535.5
JssnA Deitry Deeelpaent
Livestock Specialist                                             210.0         210.0      210.0        210.0     210.0      210.0        1,050.0                  05                892.5
Accticuliuralint                                      ,,         210.0         210.0      210.0       210.0      010.0      210.0        1,050.0                  a5                892.5
Agriculteral DEnBneint                                            35.0          35.0       35.0         35.0                                10.0                  -
Feature Specialist                                               140.0         140.0      140.0        -           -          .             280.0                 S5                238.0
Ansisl loa turce Onvescigtion/totenaion                "         140.0         140.0      140,0         -          -           -            2S0.0                 85                235.0
Censolting Sorles-"                                               35.0         35.0        35.0        35.0        -           -            105.0
Financiel Ecenreist                                              140.0         70.0         -           -          -          -              70.0                 05                 S9.
Sub-Total                -                       840.0       770.0       490,       420.0      420.0         2,940.0                                2,S56.0
Total Technical Aentatance                             -                     3,045.0    2,835.0     2.705.0   1,925.0    1,905.0         12,015.0                                 9,885.5
Training and Felln1shipr                               -         160.0         160.0      160.0        160.0     160.0      160.0           800.0                 S5                680.0
Moliterina end Sualu- tion                             -          10.0          10.0       10.0         10.0      10.0        10.0           50.0                 05                 42.5
Pro1ent Mansgenent - Technical SupPort
Four-sheel Drive Vehicle-2/                           H.          50.0        550.5        50.0         -         -          -              600.0                 60                360.0
Operating Coot (incleding Driverj' Sels1y,             -           -           327.S      467.2       477.2      238.6      190.8         1,709.2                 50A/              746.4
Peol and RePeirs)d!
Miscellaneous Office Eqeipiwnt-                       Set         10.0          10.3       30.0         10.0      10.0        10.0           70.0                -
Secretarial 9epport-/                                 "           35.0        245.3       245.0       245.0      175.0      105.0         1,050.0                -
Radio Equip.ont 6/                                   Set          40.0        240.0         -          40.0        -         -              280.0                 05                238.0
Air Tr- e-                                          Yoas          60.0          60.5      60.0          60.0      60.0        60.0          300.0
Sb-T.otl                 -1,432.5                           852.2         832.2     403.6       373.8        3,974.2                                 1,344.4
Atnil HealthbApplied
Onvnstignatiinl Work 2/                            -           430.D     43o.o         430.0     430.0       430.0       20150.0                  50              1,075.0
Total1 Irventnent                                      _            -        5,077.1   4,007.0.      4,137.7   3,008.6    2,478.8        11980                                    13,027.4
3/ Aninl Health
D3 Iiry FPres 10, Ujenano 1, and Aninal Health 1
D/ DlnS- Fare. 1.0, Ujneabs 1, and Health 1
Niy Pares
J  Dairy Fares 4, Utaas  2, Animal Heelth 1
//& J oalr2r Fuang
For Sepsimo and Fuel
2/ Se. AnDen 12
March 25, 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Parastatal Dairy Farms
1.        An important objective of the Project is to increase domestic milk
production on government-owned and operated farms. The milk thus produced
would be destined almost exclusively for the large processing facilities
which serve the major urban centers. In most instances, the Project would
take over existing farms, most of which are already engaged in dairy produc-
tion to some extent. These farms are in most instances producing at a far
lower level than their geographical and technical capacity would permit; this
is generally the result of poor management which has deteriorated over a
period of time. Some farms formerly belonged to private individuals and were
taken over by the Government to be run as parastatals.
2.        The aims of the Project for these farms would be two-fold:  the
first to increase milk production to the maximum extent feasible and thus
increase the supply available to commercial dairies. This would enable the
dairies to use a higher proportion of fresh milk in their dairy products and
should thus reduce, at least relatively, requirements for imported milk
powder and butter oil. The second, and more important, objective would be
to develop a nucleus of well-managed dairy farms using the most sophisticated
techniques available, and to develop a cadre of highly qualified Tanzanian
managers. This should permit the Government to expand its commercial dairy
operations in a subsequent project. It should also provide the technical
and managerial inputs that would be an essential prerequisite to a major
effort to increase milk production in the traditional and Ujamaa sectors.
A further benefit of the development of large farms would be the production
of surplus grade heifers after the herd was developed, which could be sold
to other farms or to traditional producers. Finally, the farms should be
able to make equipment, machinery, and training available to smaller producers
in the vicinity.
3.        This component of the Project was planned on the basis of farm
units of 356 cows each, of which 230 to 260 cows would be milking at one
time. Total stock on a farm unit would be about 700 animals (Annex 9, herd
projections). This unit size has the advantage of being large enough to
support forage harvesting and other equipment at a reasonable level of utili-
zation. Each unit would be managed separately, although adjacent units would
share common service facilities for machinery repair and fodder mixing. There
would be 5 gray managers who would supervise development and operation
of between 2 and 5 units.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        Seven existing dairy operations, owned by NARCO, TSC, NAFCO, KNCO,
KILIMO Ministry of AGriculture, and private individuals, would be taken over
and operated by the new Dairy Farming Company (DAFCO), which would also
establish two farms at new locations where no dairy operations exist at present.
At these 9 locations, a total of 17 farm units would be developed over a
period of 5 years, with a total of about 6,000 cows at full development.
Project farms were selected for their proximity to markets and the suitability
of local geographic conditions, particularly their potential for fodder produc-
tion and availability of water. An additional factor was the possibility of
taking enterprises which were not going well and making them into viable
financial ventures by improving management and providing needed investment.
The farm units to be developed are as follows:
No. of Units
Unit                  at full development             Authority
Bagamoyo                        1                       NAFCO
Iwambi                          1                       DAFCO
Kitulo                          1                       DAFCO
Ngerengere                      2                       DAFCO
Patel                           1                       DAFCO
Rongai                          3                       KNCU
Saleh Haji                      1                       DAFCO
Tanga                           5                       TSC
Utegi                           2                       DAFCO
The Government had proposed to develop a total of 41 dairy units. The
appraisal mission, however, determined that many of the proposed sites were
unsuitable for technical reasons, at least at the present level of develop-
ment of the dairy industry. It was felt that 17 units was the optimum number
that could reasonably be developed in a first phase project.
5.        The state of the existing dairy farms varies widely both in physi-
cal infrastructure and machinery and equipment available, and in the number
and quality of dairy animals. The individual circumstances of each proposed
farm are described below in paragraphs 9 through 48. For most farms, the
main investments would be bush clearing, fencing, additional housing, machi-
nery, equipment, and herd build-up. Where larger new works are required, the
first year of operations would be devoted to the construction of buildings,
fences and other structures, establishment of improved pastures and growing
and conserving one year of fodder as an initial reserve. Where the number
of animals available is limited, most stocking would take place in the second
year. At the earliest stage feasible, stocking would be from the Heifer
Breeding Unit to be established under the Project (Annex 11). Prior to the
time that these animals were available, Project farms would purchase animals
where they were available.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
6.        On the dairy farms, animals would rely on improved pasture for much
of their feed requirements, but an important feature on most of the farms
would be high quality fodder conservation to feed the stock during the dry
season (see below, paras. 49-52). Some hay production would take place, but
more emphasis would be placed on silage making as the best way to conserve
large qualities of fodder. This should be possible because grasses, green
maize and sorghum can be harvested over a longer period of time than hay.
Irrigation would be utilized on two farms where climate and soil makes this
necessary and green forage would be available here throughout the year.
Artificial insemination would be practiced on all farms using semen from
high quality dairy bulls. Milking would be done by hand on some farms and
by machine on other farms, depending on financial factors, on the local labor
situation, and on access to spare parts and servicing. All farms would be
covered by an adequate animal health program to prevent disease outbreaks.
Animals would be run in small herds, the size to be determined by the farm
manager.
7.        Each farm would be managed by a Tanzanian farm manager.  They would
be supported by five internationally recruited dairy specialists who would
be employed as group managers with responsibility for a group of farms. It
would be their primary task to ensure that the feeding program and management
system employed are appropriate to Tanzania circumstances and to the needs of
the region, and to train the local managers and staff in the management
techniques required for effective dairy operations. Their principal objective
should be to increase the quality and quantity of feed available, to increase
the milk yield per cow, and to reduce the inter-calving interval. The managers
should employ flexibility and imagination in developing management plans for
each farm, and should make maximum use of local by-products for feeding
animals: for example, copra and cotton seed cake. It is anticipated that
some farms would be run as mixed ventures, for example with plantation crops
such as coconuts, sisal or coffee in conjunction with dairy, or other crops
such as wheat and beans. Details of such development would be spelled out
in the individual farm investment plans.
8.        A farm investment plan would be prepared for each unit to be
developed under the Project. This plan should take full account of existing
facilities and equipment, using them to the maximum extent feasible. The
feeding program should be carefully planned, with due regard to local circum-
stances. -An important factor in evaluating the plan should be the financial
viability of the farm. Once the plan is approved by LIDA and TRDB, the farm
managers should be accountable for the farms in both financial and technical
terms, and it should be a continuing concern of Government that these farms
yield an adequate financial return.
Project Dairy Farms
9.        Bagamoyo Dairy Farm is located on the Indian Ocean Coast 60 kilometers
north of Dar-es-Salaam on the Bagamoyo road. It is also known as the Opel
Estates. It covers an area of 650 ha divided into four sections of which all



ANNEX 10
Page 4
but 150 ha is covered by 40,000 old coconut palms and 5,500 cashew trees.
The soils are mostly sandy with pockets of heavier sandy loam. 140 ha 'are
marshy and waterlogged, but may offer prospects for fodder production if
drainage is undertaken. The natural pasture consists of Cynodon dactylon
under the cocoliut palms judged to be yielding 12.5 tons of green matter/ha,
which is probably less than half the potential yield. The rainfall is bimodal
and totals 1,000-1,200 mm annually. The "long rains" last from March to May
and the "short rains" fall in November and December. Buildings are adequate
for one of the three sections into which the herd would naturally be divided
by the segments of the coconut plantation. Water is supplied from shallow-wells
and the high groundwater table would appear likely to facilitate the development
of further wells and irrigation. The farm has its own copra-drying plant.
10.       The farm was developed as a-combined coconut/dairy operation
beginning before 1900, by private individuals, and was considered highly
successful. The farm was acquired in 1973 by NAFCO and CDIL, and it has
continued as coconut/dairy operation. However, lack of proper herd-rearing
and grazing management has resulted in a drop in milk yields to well below
the genetic capacity of the mixed Angler/Jersey herd. To realize the full
potential of the farm, the following steps should be taken: (a) the improve-
ment of natural pasture by disking before the rains and the application of
fertilizer; this would encourage growth of natural legumes and should also
have a beneficial effect on the coconut production; (b) the introduction of
legumes (Phaseolus, Centrosema or Stylosanthes) into present pastures and
the establishment of new pastures (Digitaria/Centrosema), on an experimental
basis; Guinea grass (Panicum maximum) already grows in patches on part of
the farm near the coast and might be grown on 40 ha of open land for grazing,
hay-making and for silage. It is expected that as much as 5 tons of dry
matter per ha could be obtained in the rainy season and 4 tons during the dry
season; (d) provision of feeding paddocks in the form of green fodder or
improved pasture; (e) some experimentation with decentralizing the milking
operation by the adoption of milking in the paddocks, using a moveable bail
system of hand-milking.
11.       The present herd of about 120 cows and heifers would be supplemented
through the purchase of about 100 in-calf heifers and 50 yearling heifers in
Project years one and two (Annex 9, Table 1). The estimated present milk
production of 82.5 tons annually is expected to be increased about 650 tons
by year nine, by first by realizing the genetic potential of the herd through
better feeding and management, and second through an A.I. program using semen
of exotic breeds supplemented as needed with semen of improved Sahiwal bulls.
12.       Milk produced on the farm is cooled at the farm, then transported
by the farm's own lorry to Coastal Dairies in Dar-es-Salaam; the farm is
obliged to sell milk there because of compulsory marketing orders in force.
The farm manager and a veterinary assistant are provided by NAFCO, and there
are 50 permanent workers.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
13.       Iwambi Dairy Farm.  The Iwambi farm is located 5 kilometers south
of the town of Mbeya. It is now run as a Livestock Multiplication Unit for
dairy cattle under the Ministry of Agriculture, and produces heifers and
improved bulls which are sold at subsidized rates 1/ to "progressive" farmers
in the district and to Ujamaa villages. The farm was originally developed
as a coffee farm by a Greek farmer, and the Government acquired it in 1966.
Since then, the principal activity of the farm has been dairying and some
crop farming. The farm also has some pigs and poultry.
14.       The farm covers an area of about 2,500 ha of which about 1,250 ha
are in use: 900 ha is under improved pasture, 24 ha is under crops (barley,
wheat, beans, maize), and the remainder is natural pasture. The farm is
situated at an altitude of about 2,000 meters. Rainfall averages 1,000 m
annually concentrated between November and May/June. Water supply is from
town water and the permanent river Nzowvwe. Fields are on an undulating
plateau and soils are dark lomrs, generally low in phosporous.
15.       Improved pastures are under Rhodes grass, Setaria, Sudan and
Elephant Grass, and legumes (Desmodium, Lucerne) have been tried and are
doing well. Pastures are rotated every 7 years and yields of 4 ton/ha
(1st cut) and 1 ton/ha (2nd cut) have been obtained. Irrigation has also
been tried using overhead water pumped from the river. Locally available
feeds include cotton seed cake and rice polishings; calf feeds, dairy meal
and mineral supplements are obtained from the National Milling Corporation
in Dar-es-Salaam.
16.       The farm has considerable existing facilities.  Its buildings are
adequate for the present herd and include a calf barn and a milking parlor.
The entire perimeter is fenced and 43 paddocks of 7-15 ha each have been
established. If the herd were expanded, additional buildings and fencing
would be required. Most of the farm machinery should be replaced.
17.       The farm is managed by the Ministry of Agriculture; this has given
rise to some problems because of centralized decision-making. Management
problems include lack of supplies, notably drugs and parts for milking
machines. There is a Field Officer assigned to the farm responsible for
animal health. At present milk produced is sold at the farm-gate to local
consumers. However, there is a considerable market in the town of Mbeya
which has scarcely been tapped. In October, 1974, the farm was stocked with
158 dairy cows (Ayrshire/Jersey), 114 heifers and calves.
18.       The Project would aim at improving facilities by providing a
limited number of new buildings and replacing equipment. The principal
objective, however, would be to improve both technical and financial manage-
ment. On the technical side, it would emphasize the production of sufficient
fodder crops for silage to cover the dry season, improved breeding, feeding
1/   650 Tsh. for an in-calf heifer, 450 Tsh. for young bulls.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
and milking operations, and an expansion of breeding operations, probably
with cull cows from the Kitulo farm. On the financial side, the farm manager
would be made accountable for farm operations, and would have a budget and
plan of operations for which he would be responsible. Milk produced on the
farm would be processed at the new National Cold Storage Company facility
in Mbeya, and marketed locally by them.
19.       Kitulo Dairy Farm.  The Kitulo Ranch is located in a high plateau
area near the town of Mbeya, which covers a total area of annroximately
400,000 ha. The farm comprises 22,000 ha and is situated 60 km SE of Mbeya
at an altitude of 2,500 meters. It is served by an all-weather rough-surface
road. The annual rainfall ranges around 1,600 mm and the majority falls
during the period November-May with occasional showers during the dry season.
20.       In 1966, a state farm of 22,000 ha was established on the plateau
with assistance from the FAO/UN'DP; the objectives were to investigate the
possibility of sheep farming and cereal production potential. In the experi-
ments conducted, oats yielded very good results, whereas wheat and barley
did not. In 1968 dairy and beef cattle were introduced on an experimental
basis. On the basis of the results of this venture, a beef breeding ranch
was included under the IDA Second Livestock Project (Credit 382-TA).
21.       In October 1974, the Kitulo farm comprised 20,000 ha of which 950 ha
were improved and paddocked. The farm was operated in three sections: a
sheep section with 9,200 Corriedale sheep, a beef section with 1,800 cattle
of which a 300 head breeding unit (Ayrshire, Friesian and Aberdeen Angus) and
a dairy section consisting of 85 Friesian cows and 55 recently acquired
Friesian in-calf heifers of American origin, and young stock.
22.       TRDB has recently approved a two-year investment program for the
Kitulo farm under the IDA Phase II Project that is designed to:
(a) maintain the cattle and sheep herds at approximately their
current levels (1,825 and 9,000 respectively);
(b) experiment with cross--breeding Boran/Friesian;
(c) renew and maintain improved pasture;
(d) experiment with and evaluate the technical and
financial coefficients for pasture improvement and
beef and sheep production; and
(e) establish simple facilities for the dairy unit.
The cost of the program is 2.5 rnillion Tsh. At the end of two years, a
further evaluation would be taken, and a long-term development program for
the ranch prepared.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
23.       The Government proposed to establish one 356-cow dairy unit on
the Kitulo Ranch under the Dairy Development Project, and the mission
recommends accepting this proposal. The dairy farm would make use of
existing buildings. In addition it would require an estimated 400 ha of
improved pasture (to be established) which would be used for a rotation of
fodder and forage crops, 1,400 ha of unimproved natural pasture, and some
additional equipment. The establishment of this unit would complement devel-
opment of the Kitulo Ranch under the IDA Phase II Livestock Project.  The
Phase II project envisaged development of beef and sheep on the whole of the
20,000 ha ranch; a subsequent supervision mission authorized also the estab-
lishment of a 100-cow dairy unit on the farm.  Since appraisal of the livestock
project questions have been raised about appropriate coefficients for stocking
rates for beef and sheep and for pasture development, and about the long term
financial and eocnomic viability of beef and sheep production on the Plateau.
It now appears that dairy development is likely to be the best long-term land
use for the area, but before a large-scale enterprise is undertaken, a number
of questions should be addressed: first, questions of a technical nature
relating to pasture establishment and rotation (types of grass, quantity of
fertilizer, length of rotation, etc.) and second, economic issues concerning
feeding programs and the degree of intensity of operations. If the proposed
dairy unit is successful, then the Government might consider the establishment
of further units and perhaps smallholder production on the Plateau. In that
event, processing facilities would be required, perhaps for producing skim
milk powder and condensed milk for the major urban markets in addition to
fresh milk, butter and cheese for the Mbeya region.
24.       The principal investments on this farm would be in the form of
equipment and management. The emphasis during the Project would be on the
production of fodder crops sufficient to support a high level of milk produc-
tion throughout the dry season. Further feasibility studies might also be
undertaken for future projects involving additional farms and processing
facilities.
25.       Ngerengere Dairy Farm.  This farm is situated approximately 145 km
west of Dar-es-Salaam and about 50 km east of Morogoro.  It consists of three
contiguous abandoned sisal estates which were taken over by NACO in 1969.
The farm is operated now as a mixed livestock farm with beef, dairy and pig
enterprises. The farm has a total area of 6,000 ha, of which about 2,000 ha
is free of sisal and bush. Rainfall is around 1,000 mm annually and the long
dry season lasts five months from April to August. The altitude is about
200 m. Natural grasses are good, mainly Panicur maximum, Hyparrhenia and
Cynodon.
26.       At present NACO is operating the farm and there are a total of about
3,200 head of cattle which are divided into dairy and beef herds. The dairy
herd consists of some 130 cows, among them 40 Friesians, 20 Ayrshire, 20
Zebu-Boran, 43 Sahiwal, 4 Brown Swiss, and similar numbers of dairy heifers.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
27.       Under the Project, two dairy units of 356 cows each would be
developed; one unit would be built up from the existing dairy herd starting
in Project year 1. The second unit would be built up from the beef herd by
upgrading about 510 crossbred cows and about 380 heifers, mainly Zebu-Boran,
Zebu-Friesian, Friesian-Ayrshire, Boran-Sahiwal and Zebu-Ayrshire.  Artificial
insemination would be used; previous experience has demonstrated that the use
of exotic bulls for natural service has been less efficient due to heat
stress. Because of the low altitude, heat-stress and the presence of tsetse
fly, it would not be possible to maintain a pure exotic breed at Ngerengere;
therefore the level of exotic blood would be maintained at about 60% through
crossings between Friesian, Boran and Sahiwal. It is anticipated that at
full development, total milk production from, the two units would be approxi-
mately 1.35 million liters annually (Annex 9, Tables 13 and 14).
28.       An important objective in developing the farm would be to produce
a sufficient amount of roughage such as silage and hay, in order to maintain
a high level of milk yields all the year round and especially during the long
dry season. Assuming that dairy cows should be provided with about 15-20 kg
silage and some hay each day during the driest months, as supplemental feed,
an estimated total of about 3,500 tons of silage should be produced annually
at full development; depending on yields and rainfall, approximately 200 ha
of fodder crops such as green maize and sorghum should be grown, harvested
and made into silage each year to produce this quantity. Bush clearing would
be undertaken in order to improve the existing natural grasses; in addition,
legumes, notably stylosanthes and lucerne, would be established, and making
up an important part of the pasture and fodder development program on the
farm.
29.       The general program should include appropriate fodder production
and pasture development, but the detailed planning of the feeding program
would be the responsibility of the farm manager. The main investments at
Ngerengere would be for bush clearing, fencing, machinery for fodder crop
production and harvesting, housing for staff, water development and vehicles.
30.       Patel Dairy Farm.  The Patel farm is a working dairy farm of 300 ha
located about 65 km from Dar-es-Salaam on the Morogoro road. At present,
the farm is privately-owned but it is anticipated that it would be purchased
by the Government and operated by DAFCO. At an altitude of about 60 m, the
climate is hot and humid, ant rainfall is approximately 900 mm annually. The
farm area is composed of a low-lying, gently sloping flattish area that adjoins
the Ruvu river, and higher ground to the east of this area. The soils of the
area are largely clay and those of the higher ground range from clay loam to
loam. The flat area is subject to annual flooding for a period of about 15
days during the rainy season when the river overflows its banks. Pastures
on the higher grounds, which are mainly Themeda and Hyparrhenia grasses, are
overgrazed. The low-lying grounds have heavier soils and are grazed during
the dry season; grasses are Bracharia and there are some natural legumes.
The farm has a smaller area planted with high-yielding Napier and Guatemala
grasses, which could provide a good stock for multiplication.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
31.       In October, 1974, the farm had a total dairy herd of 550 head of
which 250 were cows, and 90 heifers which would be a good foundation stock
for future breeding. The breeds are Ayrshire, Sahiwal and Angler; the daily
average yield per cow was about 6 liters of milk, which was delivered to
Coastal Dairies twice daily after being cooled on the farm. The farm buildings
and the machinery are old and of little value.
32.       Under the Project, this farm would be developed as an intensive
dairy farm with 356 cows (one unit). It would rely heavily on irrigation,
and water rights should be confirmed prior to development. The land would
be protected from floods by a bund along the river. This bund would be about
3 m high and 3 to 4 km long. For irrigation, water would be pumped up 6 m
from the river to the high ground at the head of the low-lying area and dis-
tributed from there by gravity. The Ruvu river has an adequate flow for
these purposes even in the driest season. With irrigation some fodder crops
(double cropped) could be grown. These, together with other high yielding
tropical grasses would provide sufficient green fodder for the dairy herd
during the dry season. It is anticipated that the present milk production
of about 300,000 liters annually would be increased to about 800,000 liters.
All milk would go to the Dar-es-Salaam market and would be processed at
Coastal Dairies. The main farm investments w'uld be for building replacement,
flood control, irrigation equipment, and machinery for fodder handling. It
would also be necessary to purchase cattle already on the farm.
33.       Rongai Dairy Complex.  Four dairy farms in the West Kilimanjaro
area in northern Tanzania will be merged into one dairy operation. These
farms, located about 65 km northeast of Moshi on the western slopes of Mt.
Kilimanjaro are well-developed and stocked dairy farms. The temperate
climate is well suited to keeping exotic dairy cattle. The altitude varies
between 1,300-1,500 m and rainfall between 600-800 mm annually. Four adjacent
farms are operating at present and are fairly well-developed and stocked dairy
farms: they are the Rongai Dairy Farm, operated by NACO, and the Gararagua
estate, Lerongo Farm and Molomo Farm, all operated by the Kilimanjaro Native
Cooperative Union (KNCU). Soils are generally volcanic and the natural
vegetation for the area is woodland and wooded grassland where the predominate
grass is Themeda Triandra.
34.       The Rongai Dairy Farm itself covers 1,200 ha, of which about 200 ha
are under cultivation, 800 ha are natural pasture, and the rest forest. Water
supply is obtained from a water furrow above the farm. The existing herd
of about 300 dairy cows has been built up by upgrading Boran cattle, local
purchases and importation from Kenya. The breeds are predominately Friesians
and Ayrshires. The existing buildings are fairly good but farm machinery
needs to be replaced. About 80 ha have been planted with Rhodes grass,
which has been harvested as hay; only a limited quantity of silage has been
made in the past. Other crops are maize for grain and wheat which is grown
as a nursery crop in Rhodes grass establishment. Annual milk production is
about 400,000 liters per annum.



ANNEX 10
Page 10
35.       The Gararagua estate, operated by KNCU, is located near the Rongai
Dairy Farm, in the Sanya Juu area. The farm's total size is 1,400 ha and it
is operated as a mixed farm with a dairy herd of about 155 cows. Crops in-
clude 100 ha of beans, 100 ha of maize, 120 ha of wheat and 28 ha of irrigated
coffee. The farm has about 30 ha of Rhodes Grass for hay production and the
rest of the land is under natural pastures. The farm has a good forage po-
tential and is well suited for dairy development.
36.       The Lerongo Farm, located south of Gararagua, is also operated by
KNCU. It covers about 220 ha and it is operated as a mixed farm with a dairy
herd of about 100 high-quality Ayrshire cows. Daily milk production is about
10 liters per cow. 40 ha are planted with coffee, together with 30 ha of
beans and 36 ha of maize. The entire farm is under cultivation and about
90 ha are seeded with Rhodes grass. The farm is one of the most developed
in the area and is capable of high yielding forage production.
37.       The Molomo Farm, located in the same area covers 880 ha and is
operated by KNCU. The farm has a dairy herd of about 180 cows, and average
daily milk production is 6 to 7 liters per cow. Soils are similar to those
of the Rongai Dairy Farm and natural pastures are mainly Themeda triandri.
Irrigated coffee is cultivated on 26 ha.
38.       ITnder the Project, three dairy units, each consisting of 356 cows,
would be developed as the Rongai Dairy Complex and transferred to DAFCO.
The main investment on all farms would be general infrastructure such as
fencing, water development, and building construction. In addition, machinery
would be needed for fodder conservation (silage making) as this would play an
important role in providing high quality fodder which would be essential to
maintain high milk yields among the exotic dairy cattle. Yields would be
expected to increase from the present 1.1 million liters per annum to 3 mil-
lion liters at full development. All milk would be sold to the Northern
Dairies Ltd. in Arusha.
39.       Saleh Hajeh Dairy Farm.  This farm is situated 40 km northeast of
Mbeya, 10 km off the Mbeya-Iringa road and adjacent to the Usanga Ranch which
is operated by NACO. It covers an area of about 760 ha located in a fertile
valley, much of which is now or has in the past been under irrigated crops.
It includes level and irrigable land and lies at an altitude of about 1,300
meters. Annual rainfall varies from 800-1,000 mm and is concentrated in the
months from December through April. Soils are of the clay/alluvial loam type.
A river bordering the farm provides water for irrigation: the farm has 99
year water rights of 6 cu.ft./sec. during the wet season and 3 rusecs during
the dry season.
40.       In 1950, the farm was acquired by its present owner, who established
an irrigation system two years later. Until 1972, the main crops cultivated
were maize, rice, onions and mixed vegetables, all under irrigation, and
double cropped, 80 ha were used for grazing a 100-head dairy herd. Farming
was not intensive, and did not provide the principal source of livelihood



ANNEX 10
Page 11
for the family, who used little machinery and never used fertilizer. The
farm has not been cultivated since 1972, largely because the owner could not
afford the cost of inputs. At present, all buildings are in run-down con-
dition and there is virtually no machinery in working order. Both the
irrigation canals and intake facilities from the river require significant
rehabilitation works. The access road to the farm must be reconstructed;
NACO, whose Usanga ranch is immediately adjacent to the farm, plans to do
this with funds from Credit 382-TA. There is considerable unutilized land
in the immediate vicinity of the farm, and water would be available for
irrigation there also. An estimated 4,000 ha, completely undeveloped, is
similar to the Saleh Hajeh farm in topography and could be acquired for
development as a dairy farm.
41.       Under the Project, one relatively intensive dairy unit would be
developed on this farm, and it would rely on irrigated pasture and fodder
crops. The farm would probably have 400 cows (as opposed to 356 in the
model), and would sell bull calves at 6 months of age (Annex 9, Table 26) to
the neighboring Usanga Ranch, in order to allow the farm to carry a higher
ratio of milk-producing animals. It is anticipated that the farm would
initially be stocked with dairy heifers, probably from the West Lake Heifer
Breeding Unit, and possibly with surplus dairy heifers from Kitulo. Particu-
lar care would be required in planning this farm, to ensure that it could be
rund as a viable financial and economic enterprise. Preliminary studies of
irrigation works and a soil survey to estimate fertilizer requirements should
be undertaken prior to development which would probably take place at a later
stage in implementation of the Project. Planners should also assess alterna-
tive development possibilities since the best long term land use for the area
is likely to be cropping. At present, however, given the large expanse of
unutilized land in the vicinity, the existence of a developed farm, and the
proximity of the Mbeya market, establishment of a dairy farm appears to be
justified. This would also afford the Government the opportunity to develop
a dairy farm on an intensive, irrigated model, and thus to assess the poten-
tial for such a farming system on an expanded scale in future.
42.       Tanga Dairy Complex.  Under the Project, five dairy units would be
developed in the Tanga region over a period of five years. The northeastern
Region of Tanzania, in which this complex would be developed, is primarily
a crop area with sisal and coconuts as the dominant crops. The land on which
the proposed farm units would be located belongs to the Tanzania Sisal Cor-
poration and livestock has been introduced on part of the area to be developed
as part of a diversification scheme. The farms are situated at about 150
meters above sea-level; annual rainfall varies around 800 mm and is bimodal
with the "long rains" from March to May and "short" rains in November/December.
The water supply on existing beef units comes from dams on the adjoining river.
The combined area of the proposed units would be about 5,400 ha. Ongoing
experiments with fodder growing indicate that dry matter yields under irriga-
tion of sorghum, panicum maximum and maize could be as high as 30 ton/ha of
green fodder. TSC is at present operating two dairy units (Kange I and Kilosa),



ANNEX 10
Page 12
where staff and milkers are being trained. Considering constraints in the
region, these farms have been very successful, and are well-managed.
43.       The Complex would comprise five farms, each with a dairy unit of
356 cows; one would be located adjacent to the Kange dairy farm, two would
take over the facilities of an existing beef ranch at Azimio, and two would
replace a beef ranch currently being developed at Mivumoni. As the dairy
units were developed, beef operations would be moved to new areas to the
south, which are now totally undeveloped (dominated by lions), but which
could be relatively readily developed for beef.
44.       The Kange farms and the Azimio units were developed from old sisal
plantations and the Mivumoni units are being developed partly by clearing
old sisal and partly by clearing heavy bush country. 100 ha on each unit
would be irrigated for fodder production through construction of small dams,
and the development of improved pasture on parts of the farms would permit
an increase in the stocking rate from 4 ha to 1.5 ha/cow. Grazing areas would
be fenced and night paddocks established. A central milking operation would
be constructed for each unit. It is anticipated that the planting of coconut
palms would be continued in order to provide shade for grazing cows and copra
for concentrate feeding. The units would be stocked with improved dairy
cattle with similar restrictions on upgrading as those at Ngerengere. The
closeness of the Azimio and Mivomoni units and also the Kange II unit to one
another and to the existing Kange Dairy Farm should permit rationalization
and significant economies in machinery use.
45.       At full development, an annual production of about 3,500 tons of milk
is expected from the five units. The milk would be processed at the Tanga
Dairy which is planned under bilateral technical assistance (Annex 6). Milk
would be marketed in Tanga, with any surplus shipped to Dar-es-Salaam. The
proposed Kange unit is immediately adjacent to the plant site and the other
units are located about 20 km away on an asphalt road. Because of the diffi-
culties facing dairy development in the Tanga region, notably tsetse and the
long dry season, there should be an interim evaluation of development after
two years to determine whether the full program proposed here continues to
be feasible.
46.       Utegi Dairy Farm.  An area of about 4,000 ha has been designated
for dairy farming at Utegi, 80 km northeast of Musoma in the north Mara
region which lies on the east coast of Lake Victoria, close to the Kenya
border. Up to the present, NAFCO has had the responsibility for developing
the farm. A soil survey undertaken in 1973 indicated that a significant
part of the proposed farm is physically suitable for pasture establishment.
The soil is clay to loamy with some parts stoney but more than half of the
area can be cultivated. About 2,700 ha are under good natural pastures and
about 1,200 ha of land along valleys and depressions are under light bush.
The natural grasses are themeda and hyparrhenia. Rainfall is similar to the
Kenya Highlands with an annual rainfall of 1,200 mm; there are two rainy



ANNEX 10
Page 13
seasons, with short rains from September-December and the long rains iiB
March-May. During the driest months of July and August the area is cool and
grass remains green. Water for cattle is available throughout the year from
a river passing through the area.
47.       The proposed dairy farm is located immediately adjacent to the new-
ly established Utegi milk powder plant, financed through a Danish bilateral
loan (Annex 6). The dairy farm would sell milk to the factory, to supplement
milk supplied by local smallholders in the area which has proved to be totally
inadequate to permit the plant to operate at full capacity (Annex 6). Prac-
tically no facilities exist on the farm, and there is only a small Zebu herd
which was purchased recently; there are a few laborers on the farm at present.
48.       Under the Project, two units would be established here and at full
development 712 cows would be in milk at a time. The estimated annual milk
production of 1,400 tons would be sold to the Utegi plant or to the nearby
Musoma facility. Development would probably commence in the third Project
year. The farm would be stocked largely with Fl heifers from the West Lake
Breeding Unit. DAFCO would assume responsibility for developing and managing
the new dairy farm. The principal investment items here would be pasture
improvement, fencing, water piping, housing for staff and farm buildings,
machinery for cultivation, planting and harvesting of fodder crops, silage
and hay-making. It is anticipated that ultimately, up to seven units could
be developed in the area, since the natural conditions are highly suitable
for dairy development, sufficient land is available, and there is likely to
be significant unused capacity at the processing plants for some time to
come. However, development of large parastatal dairy farms should be accom-
panied by an intensive extension effort, since there are numerous small pro-
ducers in the area, and their milk production could be significantly increased
if needed inputs were provided. The DAFCO dairy farms should be developed
keeping this smallholder production in mind, and the farms should provide
a nucleus for training and technical support to the maximum extent feasible.
49.       Fodder Production.  An important aspect of the proposed Project
would be the establishment of suitable pastures for dairy cattle. Grassland
products - even in a conserved form such as hay or silage - are far more
economical than any other feeds, but the natural pastures available in
Tanzania must be improved and their management carefully controlled if they
are to support a modern dairy herd. The Project would therefore include
several inter-related methods for improved fodder production:
(a) improvement of natural pastures with Stylosanthes and
other legumes;
(b) institution of a rotational grazing system; and
(c) mechanized harvesting and conservation of fodder.



ANNEX 10
Page 14
In addition to these measures, a concentrate feed mixtute supplemented with
vitamins and minerals would be provided.
50.       In order to improve the nutritional status of the natural pastures,
legumes such as Stylosanthes ancl lucerne would be introduced on each farm;
the type of legume to be introduced would vary according to the climate in
each area. The regular importation of grass and legume seeds would be re-
quired, as Tanzania does not as yet have a well developed seed production
program. Each farm would serve as a pasture experiment station, and valuable
data would be collected with regard to methods of cultivation, seed planting
rate, rainfall, temperature, yields of various test plots, feeding value,
etc. This data, together with others regarding herd performance, and financial
aspects would be collected under the reporting procedures required of each
farm by the Project authority. The Project would include provision for a
pasture specialist for 3 years to advise on pasture improvement and fodder
production practices.
51.       In order to ensure the most efficient use of pastures, a form of
rotational grazing would be introduced and several paddocks established on
each farm. The Project would include provision for paddock fencing; in order
to reduce the orginarily high costs of this fencing movable electric felicing
would be introduced. It is expected that a system of "strip grazing" could
produce increases in pasture productivity of up to 30% over the conventional
rotational system. At present, manure is seldom employed as a substitute
for fertilizer, although it fs evident that such a practice could result in
substantial savings. A cow produces about 10 tons of manure annually, and
extensive use would be made of this resource to fertilize the soil on all
Project farms. This would result in substantially higher fodder crop yields
and reduce expenditures on fertilizer. Equipment for handling of manure
would be included in the farm machinery.
52.       Fodder conservation would also be developed under the Project.  At
present, only a small amount of low quality hay is available in Tanzania,
and almost no silage at all. During the wet season when green fodder is
plentiful, each farm would conserve excess herbage for use in the dry season,
thus enabling them to maintain a high level of production throughout the year.
Fodder would be conserved in two forms, as hay and silage. The traditional
method of fodder conservation has been that of natural drying of grass to
make hay, which can then be stored in bulk without risk of spoilage. Grass
should be cut for hay-making when the ratio of crude protein to crude fiber
is at its optimum. The rate of herbage growth in tropical parts of Tanzania
is very rapid; the vegetation flowers and seeds quickly, producing forage of
low protein and high fiber content. Thus, the period when plants are highest
in nutritive value is very short, and mechanized harvesting would therefore
be essential. Unfortunately, the time when grasses should be cut for hay
often coincides with heavy rains, which limits the extent to which this method
of fodder conservation can be used, and calls for an increased emphasis on
production of silage. If silage is properly made and conserved, green food
can be preserved with relatively small losses, providing a succulent feed



ANNEX 10
Page 15
for stock during the dry season. Furthermore, silage can be made from a wider
variety of farm crops than hay; apart from pasture herbage, silage can be
made from maize, sorghum and most tropical fodder grasses such as Elephant
and Sudan grass; like hay the crop is cut for silage making when the nutrient
content is optimal. Hay and silage making equipment would therefore be pro-
vided for all parastatal dairy farms. Funds would also be made available for
the construction of tranch silos where the silage would be stored; this type
of silo, apart from being inexpensive, ensures minimal losses. Provision
would be made for the storage of a full year's production of silage fodder;
this would help minimize the risk of crop failure during a drought year and
the catastrophic drop in milk yields and the losses of animals that such a
failure would otherwise entail.
53.       It is anticipated that a concentrate mixture would be fed to dairy
cattle both just before and during lactation in order to meet the cow's high
demand for nutrients during these periods. Under Tanzania's conditions,
lactating cows should obtain their requirements for maintenance and for the
production of the first 5 liters of milk from grass or other roughage. Pro-
duction above this level should then be supplemented with concentrates. With
the present shortage of cereal grains both in Tanzania and throughout the
world, to use grain in any of the supplemental feed mixtures for dairy cattle
would not be justified. These feeds would be derived from locally available
by-products such as copra cakes, cotton-seed cake, etc; funds would be made
available for machinery to allow milling and mixing on the farms. A "least-
cost" ration using local available raw materials would be worked out by the
management on each farm. Essential vitamins and minerals would be added; if
sufficient supplies are not available the Project should have special per-
mission to import these essential ingredients. Milk yields from each cow
would be recorded monthly and the correct amount of concentrate weighed for
each cow individually and fed during milking. At the beginning of every
month the farm management would calculate and set up a balanced ration for
each milking cow in the herd according to the feeds available.
Regional Ranch Managers
54.       Group ranch managers would be assigned as follows:
Number of
Farms                            Units
1.   Bagamoyo                             1
Ngerengere                           3
Patels                               1
2.   Rongai                               2
3.   Iwambi                               1
Kitulo                               1
Saleh Hajeh                          1
4.   Tanga                                5
5.   Utegi                                2
February 14, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit (Annex 9, Tables 46 to 49)
1.        One of the most important constraints to further development of
the Tanzanian dairy industry is the shortage of exotic dairy cattle and
cross-bred cattle with a potential for high milk yields. Importation of
dairy heifers involves high costs, and there are significant risks attached.
For the traditional smallholder dairy producers and for ujamaa dairy units
in particular, the best policy would be to begin with cross-bred dairy animals,
probably F-1s, and to upgrade them progressively as improved management permits.
This type of animal should also be used as foundation stock on many of the
proposed parastatal dairy farms, particularly where experience with dairy
farming is limited.
2.        Under the Project, a breeding program of upgrading beef cattle
would be undertaken on the Kitengule and Mlssenyi ranches in the West Lake
Region. These ranches, which are operated by NARCO, were developed under the
IDA First Livestock Project. The Kitengule ranch is situated between the
Mwisa and Kagera rivers west of Bukoba, on the western shore of Lake Victoria.
The ranch has 32,000 ha and was stocked with about 20,000 beef cattle in
October, 1974. The Missenyi ranch, located near the Kitengule ranch directly
on the Uganda border, has about the same area and had about 20,000 cattle,
including 2,000 Boran cows and 3,000 Zebu cows. Both ranches are suitable
for a heifer breeding and rearing project and a sufficient amount of green
grass for rearing good heifers is available throughout the year. The climate
of the West Lake region is very favorable for cattle raising; rainfall varies
from 800 to 1,500 nm annually with only about 2 months of dry season; grasses
are abundant and grow naturally and cattle in this region appeared to be in
better condition than in most other areas of Tanzania. W4hile is likely that
the long-term land use of the area would be for crops, the Government in-
tends in the foreseeable future, to develop this region, which was virtually
uninhabited, for livestock production.
3.        The breeding unit would be located on parts of the existing ranches,
which would continue at approximately the same level of production as in the
past, minus 6,000 Zebu-Boran cows, that would be transferred to the breeding
unit, and their female progeny. Male progeny would be raised as steers as
part of the beef operation. The impact on the Kitengule and Missenyi ranches
of this new development would be minimal, and would consist primarily in
reducing the number of surplus heifers available for sale.  It would, however,
alter somewhat the proposed development of adjacent ranches to be developed
under the Second IDA Livestock Project (Missenyi II and the Mwisa Ranches),
since cross-bred cull cows would no longer be available for stocking new
ranches. However, the ranch managers argued that it would be prudent to



ANNEX 11
Page 2
stock these farms initially with Tanzanian Zebu animals. An additional
factor in assessing the impact of the breeding unit on beef operations is
difficulties which have developed in selling animals to Uganda, as was
initially planned. Some slowing of development of beef ranches might be a
prudent course of action at this time, given potential marketing difficulties.
4.        The heifer breeding program would be based on 6,000 Boran-Zebu cows
(Annex 9, Table 46). 6,000 cows would be mated each year, using artificial
insemination; the semen to be used would be imported frozen semen from elite
bulls of Friesian and other dairy breeds. An AI program was initiated in
this region but because there was no nitrogen plant to provide cooling for
semen storage, the program was suspended. Under the Project, a cooling plant
would be provided to insure continuing operation of the AI program. It is
assumed that 30% or 1,800 first cross heifers would be produced annually.
The crossbred heifers would, after weaning, be grazed in fenced paddocks
and would be fed cottonseed cake as a supplement during the dry period. The
heifers would be sold to dairy farms, ujamaa units, or traditional producers
for mating at 10 to 24 months of age. Other investments would be for
fencing and water points, to permit better grazing control. Six insem-
inators would be employed and a set of corrals and crushes, together with a
storage shed, would be provided for each inseminator. Matings would be
carried out throughout the year and a qualified technician would supervise
the program. The program should be flexible and the number of animals pro-
duced and the dairy breeds used should be adapted according to demand from
purchasers: Sahiwal semen might be used for example, or the unit might
eventually produce second cross dairy heifers also.
March 25, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foot-and-Mouth Disease Control: Applied Investigational Work
Background
1.        The expansion of livestock improvement programs, involving the
breeding and multiplication of more productive stock, and the interest of
many developing countries in exporting live animals and meat, are causing
serious attention to be paid to Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) by countries
which hitherto have not practiced any significant control. Factors contri-
buting to the low priority put on the control of FMD in the past include:
(a) the low productivity and relatively high resistance of
the indigenous herd to enzootic types of the disease
snd consequently the limited eocnomic losses caused by
an outbreak;
(b) the relatively high cost of vaccine and the limited
duration of the immunity which this vaccine conferred;
A
(c) the absence of an assured markets for meat which require
disease free status; and
(d) the concentration of the veterinary services on the
control and eradication of animal diseases accompanied
by high mortality rates such as Rinderpest and Contagious
Bovine Pleuropneumonia. Now that the most serious diseases
have been controlled and considerable progress has been
made in the field control of vector-borne diseases, the
Government is devoting more attention to FMD. This is
explained in part by the need to protect investments in
beef and dairy development, which have been orientated
primarily towards increasing the productivity of the
indigenous cattle population. The growing domestic
demand for meat and milk products and the increasing
international market pctential have also focussed atten-
tion on FMD.
Foot-and-Mouth Control in Tanzania
2.        The present policy for FMD control consists of vaccinating cattle
on stock routes when they cross district boundaries, as well as the vaccina-
tion of cattle on parastatal farms and grade cattle on private dairy farms.
Future alternative policies are:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(a) the establishment of Disease-Free Zones to the extent
that the country's export of beef gains access to high-
price "disease free" markets;
(b) the expansion of vaccination of large herds and grade
cattle to prevent production losses;
(c) vaccination to protect improved cattle (F1) when intro-
duced into the village environment, either by treating
the villages as large farms or by establishing FMD-free
areas in which improved cattle may be introduced.
Using available information, a rough cost estimate for a national campaign
against FMD would be on the order of Tsh. 300 million over a 15-20 year period.
Prior to undertaking such a program, a careful assessment should be made of
the possible benefits to be derived from it.
3.        Alternative policies for FMD control should be assessed in relation
to the above alternatives and their respective cost. Here, however, numerous
difficulties arise in estimating accurately potential benefits. One problem
is that FMD is only one of many diseases affecting the national cattle herd
and in trying to accord FMD control a certain economic benefit one is facing
the following questions:
(a) what is the uncontrolled incidence of FMD in the
national herd in different districts?
(b) how great a part of herd losses (adult and calf
mortality) may be attributed to FMD, as distinct
from other diseases?
(c) can losses from FMD and hence the benefit of controlling
it be measured?
(d) what is the impact of management improvements in
increasing disease resistance in cattle?
4.        The issue of FMD control is particularly important where upgraded
animals are concerned, for resistance to disease, including FMD, is lowered
by each step of improvement where grade animals are concerned (as is the
case with dairy). Thus it becomes essential that FMD be controlled, whether
by vaccination or elimination of the disease on a regional or national basis.
The economic benefits of FMD control are much easier to demonstrate where
such animals are concerned.
Proposed Pilot Disease Free Zone
5.        The Government of Tanzania, as part of their Project request, pro-
posed to establish a pilot "Disease-Free Zone" in the Mbeya-Iringa area



ANNEX 12
Page 3
comprising a six-year program of FMD vaccination at a total cost of
Tsh. 17,358,000 (US$2.4 million). The objectives of the program were:
(a) to avoid frequent and costly interruptions in livestock
marketing and exports;
(b) to gain access to high-price markets by attaining
"disease free" status for animals and animal products
from that area;
(c) to achieve a long term increase in cattle productivity
through disease control and preparing the ground for
importation of exotic breeds of cattle, and for upgrading
of the indigenous herd; and-
(d) to provide experience for the veterinary services and to
increase the confidence of cattle owners in modern
prophylactic measures.
The proposed program was loaded on the FAO/UNDP 1/ report of
1972.
6.        The preparation report refers to the difficulty of evaluating
the economic benefits from controlling FMD:
"Due to the paucity of information on the incidence of
disease and the consequent losses attributable to FMD, either
directly or by exacerbation of intercurrent diseases, it is
not possible to undertake a detailed cost/benefit appraisal.
The most tangible economic benefit appears to be the export
potential from an FMD-free area, in the first instance to
neighboring African countries, such as Zambia, and it is
mainly on this export potential that a pilot vaccination
scheme is economically justified ..."
7.        While the proposed Pilot Disease Free Zone is technically sound,
serious questions remain as to whether it can be justified at present in
economic terms. First, the anticipated benefits from exports of meat to
countries requiring a disease free zone appear unlikely to materialize, since
there were some uncertainties regarding timing of construction of the slaughter-
house at Mbeya, supplies of cattle for export, and the necessity of a full
disease-free zone for the Zambian market.  Second, information on the incidence
of FMD in the traditional herd and its impact on productivity was not adequate
to evaluate the benefits to be derived from increases in productivity in the
traditional herd.  On the contrary, it is apparent that among farmers and
livestock officers the impact of FMD is viewed as minor compared with other
1/   Report to the Government of Tanzania on the Control of Foot-and-Mouth
Disease and the Establishment of a Disease-Free Zone; FAO, Rome, 1972.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
diseases. For these reasons, the establishment of a disease-free zone cannot
be justified at this time. The mission has proposed that the Government
undertake a pilot program of applied investigational work which should
assist them in evaluating the importance of FMD in economic terms, and in
deciding on the most effective control program.
The Pilot Program
8.        The objective of the program would be to analyze the economic
benefit to Tanzania and to an individual herd of cattle of animal disease
control with special emphasis on FMD. The program should focus on investi-
gating the following questions:
(a) what is the incidence of Foot-and-Mouth Disease in the
various regions of the country?
(b) what share of mortality and production losses in the
indigenous herd should be attributed to FMD?
(c) what are the requirements and costs of conducting alter-
native PMD control programs, such as:
-    individual herd and village control of FMD;
-    establishment of FMD free zones; and
-    a national eradication program.
(d) what are the economic benefits which could be expected from
the above programs?
The pilot program should also yield useful information on the following: the
share in mortality and production losses of the cattle diseases normally
occurring in the indigenous herd and the cost of their control; the feasi-
bility of establishing FMD free-zones, the infrastructure and organization
needed for their management; and ways and means of improving the efficiency
of the livestock field services.
9.        The program would be designed by a veterinary economist working
under the Director of Livestock. It should include a general survey of
existing data on herd coefficients and on the incidence of FMD. In addition,
it would involve a limited program of field experimental work with tradi-
tional herds to determine the impact of FMD on the productivity of individual
herds (weight losses, mortality, drop in milk production, abortions, calf
mortality, etc.). Assurances would be sought at negotiations that the pro-
posed program would be submitted to IDA for comment.
February 7, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOIPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL PROJECT COSTS - PROJECT COMPONENTS
(Tsh '000)
Total
Project
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         Period
INVESTMENT ITEMS
Project Dairy Fgrms
Bagamayo                                                                    1,726 2          375.8          _              -           1,902.0
Iwambi                                                           -          1,883.5           -           160.0            -           2,043.5
Kitula                                                        1,457.9         197.9           _-                           -           1,655.8
Ngerengere                                                   2,515.7          277.1           _-                           -           2,792.8
Patel                                                            -             -           2,940.6          -              -           2,940.6
Rongai                                                       2,822.0          913.2           -             -              -           3,735.2
Saleh Hajeh                                                      -             -           2,327.9        952.8            -           3,280.7
Tanga                                                         1,577.6       2,737.3        2,462.1      3,379.4          960.0        11,116.4
Utegi                                                         _                -           2,007.4      2,888.6          171.2         5,067.2
Sub-Total                                                8,373.2        7,735.2       9,913.8       7,380.8        1,131.2       34,534.2
Uiamaa  Dairy Development                                                          -          3,235.0                  -      _           3,235.0
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit                                   8,306.0       2,040.0           -              -             -          10,346.0
Milk Collection and Processing
CDIL                                                        3,405.6           _-                           -             -           3,405.6
Northern Dairies Ltd.                                          165.0          -              -             -              -             165.0
Sub-Total                                                3,570.6           -              -             -              -           3,570.6
Technical Services
Animal Health - Applied Investigational Work                       430.0         430.0          430.0          430.0         430.0        2.150.0
Technical Assistance                                             3,045.0       2,835.0        2,705.0       1,925.0        1,505.0       12.015.0
Training and  Fellowships, Monitoring & Evaluation                 170.0         170.0          170.0         170.0          170.0          850.0
Project Management - Technical Support                           1 432 4         852.2          832.2          483.6         373.8        3,974.2
Sub-Total                                5,                       0 77. 4,287.2         4,137.2       3,008.6       2-    8        18,989.2
Total Investment dost (Excluding Contingencies)                 25,327.2      14,062.4       17,286.0      10,389.4        3,610.0       70,675.0
Physical Contingencies (10fi)                                   2,532.7       1,406.2        1,728.6       1,038.9          361.0        7,067.5
Price Escalation (15% p.a.)1J                                   4,179.0       4 988 6        9,904.2       8,559.9        4,016.1       31,647.8
Contingencies                                       6,711.7        64,'         11,632.8                       4,377.1      38,715.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        32,038.9      20,457.2                     19,988.2        7,987.1      109,390.3
g/   15% Compounded annually
M1
March 26, 1975 



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL PROJECT COSTS - CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(Tsh'O0O)
Total
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Years 1-5
INVEST?MNT ITEM
Government DarvFarms
Buildings and Installations      2,340.5      2,037.5      3,089.8      1,938.7           -        9,406.5
Machinery and Equipment          3,298.4      3,515.1      3,399.9      1,517.1           -       11,730.5
Livestock Purchase                  -           900.0      1,282.0      3,175.0       1,131.2      6,488.2
Working Capital                  2,7344.3     1,282 6        14_2. 1       750.0                   6gog.o
Sub-Total         b3,373.2               7,735.2                   7,3 80.8        34,534.2
UjSamaa Dairy Development
Building and Installations           -            -          785.0          -             -          785.0
Livestock Purchase                   -            -        2,080.0          -             -        2,080.0
Working Ca6pital                     -                       370.0           -            -          370.0
Sub-Total                                            3,235.0                                 3,235.0
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit
Building and Installations       1,440. o                      -            -             -        1,440.o
Machinery and Equipment            124.2          -            -             -            -          124.2
Livestock Purchase               6,050.0      2,040.0                                     -        8,090.0
Working Capital                    691.8          -            -             -            -          691.8
Sub-Total                     0b        2,0T40.0         -10t3146.o
Milk Collection and Processing
Building and Installations       1,810.6                       _             -            -        1,810.6
Vehicles, Machinery and
Equipment          1,760o           -            -            -             -        1760 o
Sub-Total                  3,570.b                       -            -             -
Technical Services
Vehicles, Equipment, Mis-
cellaneous            1,187.4        607.2        587.2        308.6         268.8      2,959.2
Technical assistance, Studies    3890 .0      3 680.o      3,550.0      2 700-0       2 210 0     16,030.0
Sub-Total                                                         =Lo7 * '4,137.2           18,99.2
Total Cost(Excluding Contingencies)  25,327.2          2                                        0
CONTINGENCIES                   6,711.7      6,394.8    11,632.8       9,598.8       4,277.1     38,715.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   32,,038.9    20,7457.2    28,918.8      19,988.2      7,987.1   10g,390.2
February 12, 1975
m 4
SD. X-
U3 



ANNEAX Ill
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEYELOPNT PROJET
Estimated Schedule of Disbursments
(US$ 000)
IDA Fiscal Year                             Disbursement
and Quarter End                    In Quarter         Cumulative
1975/76
September                              _                  _
December                               -                  -
March                                 500                500
June                                  500              1,000
1976/77
September                             900              1,900
December                              900              2,8oo
March                                 900              3,700
June                                1,000              4,700
1977/78
September                             800              5,500
December                              800              6,300
March                                 800              7,100
June                                  800              7,900
1978/79
September                             300              8,200
December                              300              8,500
March                                 300              8,800
June                                  300              9,100
1979/80
September                             300              9,400
December                              300              9,700
March                                 200              9,900
June                                  100             10,000
Estimated date of signing:  June 30, 1975
Estimated date of Effectiveness:  September 30, 1975
February 13, 1975



ANNEX 15
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Reporting Procedures
1.        The following are guidelines for the recording and reporting pro-
cedures to be set up for the various managerial units responsible for imple-
menting the Project. Specific details should be discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
Coordination Committee
2.        The Coordination Committee established under the Project, which
would be expected to meet at least quarterly, would be responsible for the
preparation of six-monthly Project Progress reports. These reports would
cover in detail each of the separate components of the Project and would
summarize the various component reports submitted to it. In particular, it
would concentrate upon those aspects of Project implementation on which such
a committee is expected to exert an influence and stimulus. These aspects
would include: Project disbursement and Reimbursement from IDA, including
identification of any bottlenecks; problems relating to recruitment of managers;
preparation of tender documents. It is expected that this committee would,
as a full committee, meet with the IDA supervision team during each of the
supervision missions.
Dairy Farms
3.        Each dairy farm would be treated as a profit center and would main-
tain the following bookkeeping records:
1.   Cash Book
2.   Wages Book
3.   Asset Register
4.   Purchases/Sales Book
5.   Receivables and Payables Ledger
Each month, trial balances would be prepared and income statements would be
prepared each quarter and every six months. A complete set of annual accounts
would also be prepared.
4.        Inter alia the following management records would also be maintained:



ANNEX 15
Page 2
1.   Herd Book - showing breeding and calving records
2.   Milk Production records - daily production/cow
3.   Fodder production records - silage making, yields of green fodder,
harvesting, acreage
4.   Feeding records - supplement/roughage
5.   Machinery usage and maintenance records
6.   Pasture records - acreage, grasses, method of planting, rotation,
etc.
Each month the farm manager should prepare a report showing at a minimum the
following:
1.   Herd Analysis
2.   Milk production
3.   Fodder production
4.   Machinery maintenance
5.   Feeding
6.   Trial Balance
7.   Progress in building and construction
These reports would be submitted to the regional manager together with
relevant explanatory notes.
5.        Each quarter the regional manager together with the farm manager
would submit a quarterly report to DAFCO to be forwarded to the technical
services division of LIDA. Each quarterly report would summarize the monthly
reports and would concentrate on those factors affecting implementation and
would analyze variances between the original farm management plan and actual
progress in implementation. On an annual basis the regional manager and the
farm manager would revise the farm management plan and budget for the ensuing
year and would present the preceding year's accounts together with full de-
tails and comments following the categories set forth above (para 4) for the
monthly reports.
West Lake Heifer Breeding Unit
6.        Accounting records and management reports would be prepared on the
same lines as for the dairy farms. Management records would inter alia
include the following:
1.   Herd Book
2.   Breeding analysis - Semen purchased, delivery dates, etc.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Milk Processing
7.        TDL through LIDA would be the reporting channel for this component
of the Project and would secure required information from CDIL and Northern
Dairies. The existing monthly reports issued by the TDL subsidiary companies
are good and no extra reporting is required except to the extent that the
results of new equipment, input related to capacity, running time and produc-
tion should be identified on a quarterly basis. Tendering timetables and
procurement progress would also be reported.
LIDA
8.        LIDA, as the parent organization for the institutions named above,
would be expected, through its technical and financial divisions, to perform
an audit and evaluation service as an ongoing function, and to review future
plans and particular problems that might arise on a regular but unstructured
basis. LIDA would maintain records showing the time lapse in the preparation
of farm management plans and processing investment, from initiation of prepara-
tion through submission to TRDB to approval by TRDB and implementation. Full
reports would be prepared for the Coordination Committee on matters relating
to tenders and any awards of contracts and technical assistance.
Ujamaa Dairy Units
9.        TRDB would be the reporting channel for this component of the Pro-
ject; it would also report on the time lapse situation of the parastatal
dairy farm management plans and draw down of funds. With regard to the Ujamaa
component, TRDB would report on the recruitment of internationally recruited
technical assistants and would submit to the Coordinating Committee for its
approval the agreed program of operations for the team responsible for future
Project preparation. This program would include all the elements of required
preparatory work together with expected dates of completion. TRDB would re-
port to the Committee on the progress of the program on a quarterly basis.
Animal Health - Applied Investigational Work
10.       The Livestock Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
would be the reporting channel for this component of the Project. Reports
to the Coordinating Committee would be on a quarterly basis and would be
prepared by the Livestock Director on the basis of reports submitted by the
work team. Reports would include, initially, terms of reference for a
veterinary economist and details of animal health program, and subsequently
reports on the implementation of the program and conclusions derived from it.
March 25, 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Sisal Corporation
Background
1.        The Tanzania Sisal Corporation (TSC) was established on October 27,
1967 under the Tanzania Sisal Corporation (Establishment and Vesting of In-
terests) Act 1967 for the purpose of conducting the business of sisal growers,
processors, exporters, and manufacturers of sisal products and for carrying
on any business or activity conducive or incidental thereto. The Corporation
may, among other things, acquire by agreement and hold interests in any com-
pany or firm carrying on business concerned directly or indirectly with sisal,
and manage the affairs of and continue the business of any firm, the interests
of which are vested in or acquired by the Corporation under the provision of
this Act whether or not that business relates,to sisal.
2.        As from the effective date of the TSC Act, i.e. October 27, 1967, the
Corporation took over the individual businesses in Tanzania of 39 firms. As
of January 1, 1968 the net book values of the assets taken over according to
the previous proprietor's accounts, stood at about Tsh. 139 million. The
United Republic of Tanzania has stated its intention to pay full and fair
compensation in respect of the net value of the assets taken over under the
Act. The compensation negotiations between the Government and the estates
taken over were pending finalization at the time of the appraisal mission.
Organization and Management
3.        The Management of the Corporation invested in a Board of Directors,
including a Chairman who is appointed by the President and eight other direc-
tors appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. The General Manager, who is
appointed by the Board with the approval of the Minister, manages the day-to-
day business of the Corporation through its four Departments: Production,
Administration, Engineering and Accounts (Chart). Besides the Head Office
at Tanga, the Corporation has a branch office at Morogoro.
4.        The Board of Directors of the Corporation decided on March 9, 1968
to diversify its activities from sisal estates in view of the continued
decline of the sisal prices in the world market, in order to maintain the
economic viability of the estates. The diversification envisaged covered
cattle ranching, dairying, cultivation of rice, sun-flowers, soyabeans,
papaya, coconuts, sorghum and fodder crops.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Capital Structure
5.        The funds and resources of the Corporation consist of (a) such sums
as may be provided for its business by Parliament by way of grant or by loan,
(b) any sum borrowed by the Corporation with the approval of the Agriculture
Minister and (c) any sum or property which may in any manner become payable
to or vested in the Corporation pursuant to the TSC Act or as the result of
its functions. Up to December 31, 1972, the Corporation had received from
the Government grants aggregating TSh 938,000 and loans amounting to
Tsh 16,240,000. Other resources of the Corporation included debenture stocks
floated by it during 1968 for TSh 9,346,000, besides the net value of the
assets taken over under the Act (Table 1).
Financial Positions
6.        Since its inception in 1967, the Corporation made losses until 1971
when its accumulated losses were TSh. 15.9 million. The main reason for the
losses was the sharp decline in the world prices of sisal. However, due to
gradual improvement in the world prices, the Corporation could show a net
profit of TSh 688,000 during 1972 (Table 2). TSC's provisional accounts for
the year ended December 31, 1973 showed a net profit of over TSh 57 million
which is due to a four-fold increase in the sisal prices, which stood at
TSh. 2,195 per ton as against TSh. 530 per ton in 1972. The production of
sisal on the Corporation's estates remained constant at 58,000 tons during
the two years. In view of these profits, TSC's accumulated losses should be
completely wiped out.



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Sisal Corporation
Cnparative Balance Sheets as at 31 December 1968 - 1972-
(Tsh 'O00)
Liabilities                                    1968     1969     1970     1971      1972       Assets             1968     1969     1970      1971     1972
Assets acquired under the Tanzania                                                         Fixed Assets - at net
Sisal Corporation (Establishment and                                                       book values at date
Vesting of Interests) Act 1967 and                                                         of nationalization
subsequent amending Act and orders.                                                        plus additional cost,
less disposals and
depreciation.        91,570    88,413   85,553   82,616   79,865
Part I - Firms whose assets and
liabilities were acquired -                                                       Subsidiary Companies 42,370    45,958   47,596   45,493   38,311
net book values in previous                                                       Investments              775       901      928       824    5,857
proprietor's accounts.               97,486   97,486   97,486   97,486   97,486
Current Accounts -
Part II - a) Companies whose entire                                                        Part I Firms
share capital was acquired -
nominal value of issuE'd                                                          Current Assets
capital.                            35,114   35,114   35,114   35,114   35,114  Stores, stocks and
b) Companies in which 60%                                                        work in progress       6,422      7,696    8,648   10,741   13,054
of the capital was acquired -                                                     sundry debtors,
nominal value of 60% of issued                                                    deposits and pre-     4,429      6,161    4,896    6,199    7,912
capital.                              6,563    4,763    4,763    4,763    4,763  payments.
General Reserve                                  139      277      369       528      446                           631       631       276      276       276
Funds held by law
Secured Loans                                  9,346    8,346    7,346    6,346    5,346  Debenture Corp.
Funds held by
Arbuthenot Latham     1,518      1,518    1,518    1,518    1,518
Unsecured Loans                                                                            Co. Ltd.               2.222       400       248      292       936
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives    5,000    9,500   13,500   16,240   16,240  Cash at Bank and        15,222    16,406   15,586   19,026   23,696
in hand
Current Liabilities & Provisions               3,569    4,363    4,290    4,148    4,112  Profit and loss A/C
Losses to date         6,836     7,404   12,438   15,900   15,212
157,217  159,849  162,868  164,625  163,707                       157,217   159,849  162,868  164,625  163,707
The Accounts have not been finalized by the Corporation's Auditors, M/S E.B. Parry, pending finalization of compensation negotiations between Govern-
ment and the Estates taken over since nationalization in 1967.
February 5, 1975                                                                                                                                             1!
0'



ANNEX 16
TaLblo 2
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Sisal Corporation
Comparative Profit and Loss Accounts for the Years ended. 31 December, 1968 - 1972-/
(Tsh t000)
Expenditures                        19W       1969      1970      1971       1972
Trading Losses                     4I,127      -          618         66       _
Head Office Expenses                1,232     1,564     1,616      1,284     1,810
Cattle Expenditure                    322       757     1,111        526       483
Other Expenditure                     333       715       478        558       939
Other Crops Expenditure               -         119       212        185       251
Tobacco Project Expenditure           -        -           90        273       209
Provision for Audit Fees              120        80       100        100       125
Registration Exp. &
Registrar's fees                    21        34        25         28        30
Debenture Stock & Other
Interest & Finance Exp.             898       586       586       549        443
Bad Debts written off                 -         -         449     1,2322/      -
Net Profit for the year               -         -         -          -         668
Total                 7,051     3,855      5,286     4,801     5,530
Income
Trading Profits                       -       1,550       -          441     4,979
Sundry Revenue                       130      1,702        54         78        84
.Investment Income                    -         -           8        -         -
Interest Income                        53         8       189       229        121
Provisions written back                32        18       -            1       -
Development Grants Received           -         -         -          592       346
Loss for the year                   6,836       569     5,035      3,h60       -
Total                7,051     3,855      5,286     4,802     5,530
r/  The accounts have not been finalized by the Corporation's Auditors, M/S E.B.
Parry, pending finalization of compensation negotiations between the
Government and the estates taken over since nationalization in 1967.
2/  Includes provision for deficit on Estate shop operations and loss on
disolution of Mdaula Estate.
April 21, 1975



ANIEX 16
ChArt
TANLANIA
DAIRY DEVELO: 9ET PROJECT
Tanzania Sisa Corporation
Organizat on Chart
Board of D rectors
Chair n
General Mnager
Ipternal
Audit DeDartment                                                               'aisi     t  C Al Manager
Accounts Department             EngineerHng                                    Production                                                                     Administrativf Derpwtienat
~~-tmept                                          a t   t~
I              ~-                                                Production Manager                                                                    Co,-poration Ser t65
Chief   ceountant                                                              (Sisal)
Shipping   Accountant I   Accountant IT   Accountant II[    Algriculture   Senior        Economist I     Econosl; II                        Livestock     Assistant    Chief    Education   Ettablistmnt    Public
Manager                                                        Officer      Econoaist  (Production)   (Diversifi ation)   (Research and   Development   Secretary   Welfare    Officer          Offi er        Relations
Feasibility     Officer                   Officer                                  Officer
Studies)
Chief Eng_!_ne_r
Senior Engineer   Training   Engineer         Engineer         Enginieer     Engineer
Engineer   (tractors     (Construction)   (Produ-tion   (Electrical)   (St4res-Dspartment)
& Vehicles)                     nachiniery
February 5, 1Y75



0090202285    losoloposoot        1             2        ~     ~    ~~          ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~~        ~     ~~~3  4  7  6  7  0  9  1007 2  13  14        1           6          17        70           9          00         21         23          13          04         9
Solos                        -            ~~~~~~        ~~~~~375. 1  394 3  542.  764.5   00.9       67.       1042.9~    1204        110o.      1100.4      1100,4     21000.4    620-        1000.4     010.4      110. 4      1000.4    0570.       7100.4      1707.4     7100.4      1100.4     1700.4      010.4      200.4
Otoot,osot Coot,             -           107~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~5.3  95.                                                                                                                                                  
Opttotiog Coot,               -           ~~~~~    ~ ~~450 9  460,5  518      552.2       574.21     538.2      541.3       546.5~     546.3      546.3I      51.63      5496.3     542.3       546.3      546.31      54 6.5     540.03     546.3      540.3        4.                    546.3      546.3       54.        546.
-  -   -       -          -          50.2       278.0        6.0      170.0        50.8       -         356.0         9.0       500         -         170.0      278.7        55 0      -           -          -          403.0      079.0.3    4-4           4 -           .
toooo20    ... oll  olot               0.0      (451.)           122.0       30.7      236.3     236,71       5.         461,6      3-4.       110         561.       205.U1      555.1      514.      1564.-1      394.1L     226.1      505.1      564.1      614 1       514 1       1351,      365.        341640551
Solos                                       -6 .   04.                 526.1     431.4       760.4      255.6     1140 .6     1425 .1    248.2      1440         442        44         -44.1      7484.1     144.1      214.1       10.         441       16.         741        06.0       00.          440        48.         441        16
Iooootooot 00621             -           ~~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~145.  I- 260. -               -          -           -
431.7  496.0  451.0   487.4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5.09500    54o9
77              447~~~~~~~~5:  ___4              33         93           32         s5j  .74.'.           ____
0.0                                      2-             5 _09.600.0                                          9320       5515        207          0        32           7.            :I_    ay43:,                                                   26
Ttototaooolstooooiol Solotto   0.0        7~~~~~~500.7  (179.)   (159,6)       003.0      305.5      M             1.                                                                 8                             ~                                ~                                                  S
Flo2ootl2t6to1  otoot    7.3%                                                       --                                -        __
SElo,                                                   0156.7:       032.      2435.6      752.    7,604.1        065.4      0675.4     1675.4     0675.4      1675.4     1673.4      1675.4     1675.4     7673.4      0275.4     065.4      16754    1673.4       167.4       7675 4      165 4      1334        27.         234        17 
740001100 Gaits              -            ~~~~~~466.2    647.7     673.4      691.3       430.5      6'9.o      933.6       703.0      707.4      787.9  ~          10 377.4         777.6      07,4       777.0       77.4       777.6      707.4      777.4      777.4       747.4       737.3      747.1       777.6      777.6
CopILot Ropitoototo  -       -             -         -           -          -         202.5        -          02.5       -           -         .3 .5        75.5       -          -           72.0      202.5       00.5       -          - 0-                  254331 1-  'O  M  1  10-
rootttoottlflttoottl stloooo   >77   2.         (310           577.0     7400       0 51.0     013.6       Z1072       96748      00573      222.2       Z2EL       71,        93-11.      347.8      347.8      009.0       764.3      447~0      907.7      917.1       147.9      47.RIM~3'0                          7.       44.
2o1,o                         -            3~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~157.9  957.9   1767.  7973.6    1075.9     7034.       4057.5     ooo.         13.8      2243.0     2044.9    02470.        o4l.8.    o~43. 4     206.7      0049.7      0045.9    0043.4     0793.9       045.0     2404.0      oooo.0     02o508      7''.8       oL3.0
Iooootosot Coot,             .           18~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~       ~~~~297  277.1  -             -                -          -           -          -                                                                                                                                                     
Coploll ttplaoooott    .             .              -        ~     ~    ~     ~ ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~     ~~~~-3  1  100.0  233,0   16.3O  208.5  100.0  -  352.     22.       100.0        -         235        235.0       119.        -          -           -47                    7       ~       ~        .       497l
Oottotoottl Floooolo7 loloto,    ~~~~~0.0  (7997.9)         743.0)    093.4      144.0      4016.       07.         052       17.         224         077       00          72        fl3o,5      74-97      430         7447       4747       74974.7         7    443.7         9~.         7.&        4~~7.7      467       7407
80100                        -             500~~    ~ ~~~~~~~.3  6123  784.0   959.3     1070.2     1096.       1120.02    101 9      1007.7      1297.9      0a75.7    9207.7      1247.0     1747.0     7203.       7047.4     70477      777.0 12)9127.7        1047'.0    700.07..0              1207.0      004.4      7075.0
-     234.7           .         -           ._7 -                             .          -
opttatsos 90090              -            ~~~~~586,      415.1     433.0       650.5      400.0      475.        401.7      6 40.,     40i.        007.       404.       407.9       493.0      12.,.       400.7      445.0      644.7      444.       401.2       444.4      407.9       004.0      447.        494.'       444.0
Ctottoltoplsoosoto           -              -             -        ~~          ~     ~    ~~~~~    ~~~~-  -  52.9.  361.0'  .           50.2        -         601.        .           50.0       -          -          347.7       70.0                  -                      1.                
ooootolltola   aoo                 0.0        (2479.0)         (2.6)    750.7       706.0      479.4      752.        599.1      400.08       5.0       40.7         (2,7)     64.67      517617     63.60       474.0      245.0       554.0     40.0       604.        46.7-       (30.L5)    474.4      10.6444                10404
toot 08500200    14,.00_
Stloo                         -          ~~~~~~~        ~~~18055  13185    285.7  3097.4  3523.1     422.6      4757.0     47924       422.       h6604.     412.0       110..  4    026.0      4074.06-   4P04.0     4774.0       02. 48.6   24.7      420.7      600.        07.0 48~.  . 4oo-     .4 26.'    4404.4       446.4,
020021101 Coata              .           1185.~ ~~6 1212.1    116.6          136.0~  1452.4        151.0       1543.6     134.       25143.5     1543.5     54346.   1 545.5       1543.3     1343,3      14.5  154     5.5     1745.57543. 64    1545 5          1343,3      7543.5      1543.      1553         -53.5     7343.5
lopitol lsslotsosot  .   -           -         .           -         111.1      257.0        -         420.0       100.0       -         699.1        -         100.0        -         429.0      637.0       130.0       -          -           -         099.7       470.0 3-0               -          - 1  420.  ~ 3_  91
Ioooootttlolootjol tlooto0.0                 1085           73.      13772.6     279.       1970.7     1020.6      1215.4     2834.9     3013&;                 00.         200.       5402.5     3272.5      2042.      2445.5     3107.5    3900.5      3940.4      3282.0      0274        40.F04.               3200.7       72.1
Sooth lotOfbsh os
RoOst                  -              -            676.2     094124040.3           1169.5     0109.0      1184.0     1739.0     1354.0      0554.0     1354.0 11695  17334.011994.0251374.0M1334.0..0334.0                 1331.0 14534.74.1374.0            2534.0130354.03133413741D3140                 0374.04     17)440
ttooaO,oool bob               -          ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~        ~~1816.6  950.  -  -               -           -          -           .                                 -          .                                        
lootollto Coot,              -             511~~~~II.0   620.0     75770      740.4       77.         0.         693          O        407.3       493.3      493.3      407.3       433.7       7)         647.3      693.3      634.3       493<       43_3.3      493.3      403.3       433.3       4.,3       j9333       643.3
coplool ooploooaoot  -            .              .         -          -           11.0      555.3        -         194.0       49.0                  5763        47)         374                    84.0      404.5       30.0  .14              -          -          039.0 4-  -I- 
lo-oooottol40160141 tol4ot             0.0       '037.9'        (00.67    439.0        243.5      34.7         o.)        0,7       374.7       3o1        447        .jJ                    So)         452        0,7         5.2        507         4.'        1.7         6.7,7                  4.74.7                 02.       46.41
lola,    .                           697.5    1110.4      1434.5     2548.7     508.0       3611.9     4596.2     5095.1      5216.0     5744.0     s7o4.o      5476.7     5474.0      54712.7 4596s7o4.7    0444.0 54014.4         5044.06,  8i6x  L6D    7974.0..  8i.,  5014.7  07477a6.9744.0 P0744,876 9744,7.
40016                 -          4224~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.9  137.  04.      0003.4      944.0       -           -          -           -          .          -           .                      -          -          -
Coolool toploasaso  .           .             -         -           .          50.0      112.5        04.5      400.0      340         234.0      519.       495.0       4663       45.0        154.0      5055       100.73790.4526.4D50.0.53.07701.0-1705                                            539.02339.
I'llootl  loola "       lIo                            (as77.6)      (L44o.0(  (o43. 7)   (3007.9)    7443.0)       800.1     1161,1     2028 4      2350.4     3092.6     7007.0       07.       3.6447      3C13.F     33o7O       4324,      300.4      3474.4      72003      3476.       2344.4     02.         7367        740        42.00
Fl=oolo  9Z0  of100               6.5%
8.loa                        -             ~      ~     ~~~~~~ ~~- 491,5    1080,4  172  1190       1758,9     1862.4      0221.1     0292.9      2022.9     1222.9     2128.0      29282,     2022.9    12192.9      2292.9     2290,1       05.        01929       2792.9  2292.          110,       1207.9      7021.19     21222.
toooosoosot Glob              -           1~~~~~ ~~341.2  0006     71.2        17.8.-                             -                                 -          -           -                                 .      
Oooolo  Co,-                                           659.          750.       073.0      253.0      241.0       641.0      847.7       047.)      7,9 04,        0       044.7      72,4,4     94o1        04.        114.        O4io       747.0       24..,       741.        44.1       007.        Co1        06.414                 440
CapItol Rotlooosooo  .         .             .         -           .         120.0       364,5       -          278.0      000,0       .          637.1       -         100.0        .         172.0      364.5       100,04 5-278 0-                3-7 33777.23.096.0                                 -
......  ~  ~~                          (37.4)         (14.)    (96. 4) 72,6             772.9       553.4     1757.4       907.2     0744.3     1454.9      470.6    1444.4       4041.9    7154.        447'3       7706.)    0754.9       441.5       4.4.       05         .9 71.        453       is.          447       ~      7
Cloloool Oto of Rtoot    4.9%
solos                  -             .              -         79~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.0  27.4  09.6  32.6  7l4.0  34.0    35.9       35.9        35.8       75.4        34.4       35.4       35.7        37.0       3508         3548       774         35.9       35.0       3I.4        39.0        35.0        35.0
00006                -             5~~~~~~                              ~~         ~~        ~     ~ ~        ~ ~~7.3  ,  B.  -.  a2 - .  .3  -         .3         -3         .                 .               ..         -.          .                                                           3
opootoota Cost,   00.0%    -   5.4   7.0      6,0        8,2         80         1~.5 8.                 .          .         85          83         01           .          .          .9        627        07 5          1.3       83f         0.1       97.3         8.0         83         2.         95
Iooooaooool Cloooolal Bolooos  -           7~~~~~ ~ ~~64.7)  11.4   140        15.1        114        0.4L4       047        417        14          27         14           7.5l      07.        27.5        073        0.5        2.           07.5       _7.         273         7._2.                 27,50759..4
2a,o                                        .             -           ss.2    5526.2        5546.0     5506.0      5546.2     5544.2     5376.2      5so4.2     5514 ,     5517~ 2      s6.'      5944.2      55,4.0     5474.2     5914.0,    5594.0        34.        5514.2     4544.0    5746.2       5442       4 ,           542      02.
Opoootlog Coos,             -             221.8~       ~~ 680.8   2734.8     7719       2770.4     2737.0      0737.4      71  2731.0877.        2731.9     2730.0      27311.01   03.9       773.0       0730.0     2731.0      0734.0      2734.4     0734.7      0737.0      2730.4     2334.7      4770.9    277(1.1      077.0
03010 1  .....ool                       -                                      -          8.0-                                         90.0        .                                 90.0       -                      .          97.2                    .          -           90,0                                          9.
-Oooatll -oll oslooo                   0,0       (8306 0)       2~7444    27004 4     0694.4     2774.4      27046.6      8 0764   2694.4      2706.4    2704.4      0764.4      0494.6     0744.4      0704.4     2 1442.   4 7471       02703.4     '74.4       270.4 6    _0674.4     _270'.'     0346.4     0746        03,        0.77
Oltosool Roo of Rtoot    33.30



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow from the ProJect
(Tab millions)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------P- Project Year ---------_-_-
1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8        9      10       11       12      13       14       15       16      17       i8       19       20       21      22       23       24       25-50
Sources
IDA Credit                           17.0     8.0    11.5    7.0       3.0      -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -
Repayment TRDB Loan                  -       -        -       _       _          1.9      2.7      3.8     6.5      4.7      4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7      4.7      4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7      4.7      28.8    2.0       .9       .7       .7
Tass & Duties                          .4      .4       .3      .3       .3        .3      .3       .4       .3       .3      .5       .3       .4      .3       .3       .3       .3       .4      .3       .3       .5       .4       .4       .4    io.4
Total Sources                   17.4      8.4    li.8    7.3       3.3       2.2      3.0     4.2      4.8      5.0      5.2     5.0      5.1      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.1      5.0      5.0      3.3     2.4      1.3      1.1    11.1
Use s
InD  C.edit - Repay-ent                .1      .2       .3      .3      .3        .3       .3       .3      .3       .3       .4       .4      .4       .4       .4       .4      .4       .4       .4       .4      1.2     1.2      1.2      1.2    37.7
TRDB -loan                          17.7      7.0    10.5    6.5       1.5        .1    -         -       -        -        -        _       -        _        -        -       _        _        _        -        _       -        -        _        _
-Grant                           .7       .6       .5     .4       .4      -       -        _        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        _        -        _        -       _        _        -        _        _        _
Government techical service            .6      .6       .6      .4       .4
LIDA-Orant (techicsl services         3.5     2.8      2.8    2.0      1.5
Total Uses                      22.6    11.2    i4.7    9.6        4.1        .4       .3      .3       .3       .3       .7      .7       .7       .7       .7       .7      .7       .7       .7       .7     1.4      I.A      1.4      1.4    39.9
Annual Cash Surplus/Defioit            (5.2)   (2.8)   (2.9)  (2.3)    (.8)         1.8     2.7       3.9     4.5      4.7      4.5     4.3      4.4      4.3     4.3      4.3      4.3      4.4      4.3     4.3       1.9     1.0      (.1)    (.3)  (28.8)
Cumnlative Cash Surplus/Deficit        (5.2)   (8.0)  (10.9) (13.2)  (14.0)   (12.2)   (9.5)   (.5.6)  (1.1)    3.6            8.1    12.4    16.8    21.1    25.4    29.7    34.0    38.4    42.7    47.0    48.9    49.9    49.8    49.5    20.7
I/  Cash flow does not show benefits of transfers which csuld be made from parastatal corporations surpluses
generated as a result of the Project.
May 22, 1975



ANNEX 19
Page 1
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of data
presented in Annex 9, which is summarized in Table 1. Key assumptions and
adjustments made were:
(a) project life is 25 years;
(b) all project operating and investment costs were included
in the rate of return calculation, with the following
exceptions:
(i) the applied investigational work program in
animal health, training, monitoring and evaluation,
and part of technical assistance costs, which would
be directed to preparation of future projects; and
(ii) operating costs for milk collection and processing;
neither costs nor benefits from increased milk sales
resulting solely from improvement of collection and
processing services were included in the analysis;
(c) foreign exchange costs and benefits (import savings) were
valued at the rate of Tsh 10 = US$1.00 to reflect the
scarcity value of foreign exchange.
(d) milk production was valued at prices paid to the producer
(Tsh. 1.25 proposed national price) which were assumed
to be comparable to international prices for equivalent
milk powder and butter oil; these prices were decreased
by 1% per annum to 1980 to reflect anticipated changes in
international prices through 1980. Cattle produced were
valued at prevailing market rates, which reflect their
fair market value in relation to neighboring countries;
(e) the shadow rate for unskilled labor on government farms
was assumed to equal 50% of the monetary wage, which is
approximately equivalent to the value of subsistence
production which might be foregone; all other labor was
valued at prevailing wage rates, which reflect the
economic cost of labor;



ANNEX 19
Page 2
(f) with the exception of milk prices (d) above, the prices
of investment and operating cost items and outputs, in
real terms, would remain at March, 1975 price levels.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the rate of return was calculated to
be 22%. The rate of return was calculated also with foreign exchange costs
and benefits valued at Tsh 7.14 = US$1.00, which is the prevailing exchange
rate; the rate of return using this assumption would be 20.x. The rate of
return would be 21% if shadow prices were not employed for labor.
3.        The sensitivity of these rates of return was tested under several
unfavorable assumptions. The results of this analysis are presented in
Table 2.
February 13, 1975



1     2           5    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      ~ 4  5  6  7       a            9          :0          ii           1           05           11           19          18        17           18           101                       12                        3          234S
1. 0110                               0,808.1      1,658.0~~~~~~~~~~M   1, 483.  9,10.  1,5.1    03,000.3    15,1668.0      0,2930       7,128      180.1        18,143.0
1.1 ,:  ,C  ,,,210                                            1,71         ,99           12836      211'o        ______ 6__,                         ____ _6____
____3__        4-         ,56'.2    ,,37738       3 500.2      370,0~      3,780.0      3,830.
0011001,191  ,l.    --. 01041        0,2.1       7 01.6"   15,408,0   618383.022859.4    22.02.;               52.         1,7.1       2 113,04       20,213.7    20,011.0   0,011.6    09,6-1.      29,11.1      C 8116..1   2961,6-    09a,60.       0118       C 6111.    0011 .6        C11.     11.6            02~.60  6    1060 8       001-
1.  10000  .             .         0,30.2    0,600.1       0,01.0       2,033,5     2,90.5      2,038.9      2,8805       2,930.5     0.0575      0,0785       2.038'      0937.592,938.5 9,37.5    2,932 5    2,88.5                   2,038.3      1,08.5       0,908.5      0,03.7      2,332 1      1,030        2,137.3     2,030.
2.1o0,o 02111010101,0,                         0~~~~~~~~~~~6:'9',59.  C,297 7,04.   0,0873      38. 910.     0,30.         84&o,      8,2.          ,1.        091.          ,2.        8921W        89.8  8     08,924.8    _,21.7      8,920.8     8,941        0,14.       89248        0,040        8,914.8      8,4,         7,  4.8     8, 04.8
5.SCO.1  2,037.9  5,570.8  1,930.0   ~~~14.       . _5       ~              _..   ,   I             ,                                      9.  .-1                                                                  5-           ~45.-11~-                                           "
0.  2.oiol,,, 10C10220C, 7,101:120  6,000.0    4~~~g,120.   3-.9004,07M                                                   3,8. 1,825.5                         6   43018t  0,46.  .                       .3     -e. .  .78                59.8     1 -  .  .  -34,~.3~4-B                                           485.3       .6~,3~ 86.
11.20:1301 Olpoo,0                    3,~~~~~~~    ~~~~1:1916.1  1,1    0,574,1  75,0 3-                                                                .                        .           . 
2110 901,1±20110 01±200121 8,o.98o,  (20 103.85   11,611.70   09,49531  0.01.1 1 ~ 4~,  0,673-   9,900.      88,411,     11,390.      0,7,238     16,783.4    63.4-33    16.450,3    15155.3    17.174.3    18 7138    15,70.           18,015.8    16,05.5 3    17.178,3    1769.10,       520,3L` I    5,oo         4,7703      6~          28.748.,
2   8200,                        400.0        450.0      411.0        o113.0      08~~~~~~~~~~~~~.3 1 300  050           0,          2704' 15.0                            3o          10          3000 -11     3070        70.        376.0        360          0,          375.        L383.        507.2        423.0        31.           70-
6   1,000 13                                                                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~3  ,1:~ 1  .  3  3.  ..                   .                                                                         ,..:.                               459,         159.0        11559.0      459.0       159.825.
1.002001181                           300        373.         233        4.0          459.0       45.          450.0       659,         670.        653.                     499, 459,    03,         6090         119,       40.         454015.                   053,3
13,538.~4)    1704       1072           9.         ,1.          ,1 4         0903       411138      ±12,0        5,25.        1298       521,6        483257-0                 730.         ,1.        ,021         ,100        541          ,9          4,052894,40,8             11,0         5.391        ,106
1,  112blb  27:0210108100  10. -0    32.0,       09070      .19,03      338.8       (10.0        (81.1         63.)       00053          Iso       186,0         90373790.50             090.3       095.3        0C3.5 60336900330                   190.304638C              (93.0 (43.)490330                      90.31       098.7        (88.
0,  010,010.       0,10001,(C03.( l270.)10.164                                          1761         ,550       1,575       1,527        1,072       2,200        2,3,0       2,2.6        0.0,        0.0,         0,75         2.2,        0 6.        1,4.        10510       2,440        2,110        o,oo8       0  1431417.2.0.8                       7,3.
')  7                                                                                  g,:6,                                  3, 31)00,20    C    2300, 019
8210901,187



ANNEX 19
Table 2
TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return
1.   Economic Rate of Return - Base!/                     18.0
2.   Costs Increased by 10%                               14.0
3.   Costs Increased by 20%                                11.0
4.   Benefits Reduced. by 10%                              14.0
5.   Benefits Reduced. by 20%                              10.0
6.   Foreign exchange valued. at Tsh7.14  1US3.00          16.0
7.   All labor costs valued. at prevailing wage rates    17.0
1/ See Table 1
May 14, 1975



TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
[  Ministry of Agriculture
|Co-ordination Committee
Livestock Development                   Tanzania Sisal 3                       Livestock 4.                      Tanzania 5.
Authority                               Corporation                            Division                          Rural Development
Min. of Ag.                       Bank
National '              Tanzania 2              Dairy 3
Agricultural            Dairies                 Farming
Company                 Limited                 Company
NOTE
1. Heifer Breeding Ranch
2. Processing Component
3. Large Dairy Farms
4. Animal Health Component
5. Ujamaa Dairy Units                                                                                                           World Bank-9468






TANZANIA
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministrv of
Agriculture
LIL
Board of Directors
Managing Director
Administrative                                            Dairy Farming
Division                                                 Company
Procurement                                             Tanzania Dairies
Division                                                Limite
I =                                                              i
Technical Services                                      National Agricultural
Division                                                Company
Finance Division   f      _Lim                                    P
i  Marketing Division                                       Tanzania Hides and
_ _ ___    _Skins Corporation
L - - - - - - - - -W- -B-n-k-4--
World Ban k-9469






~~~~~~~~~~BRD I; V11
'SThTJ69kA&cA     / JanQ.y 1975
'UGANDA                                           i
_. \ ., t~~~~~~~~~~~I  k    
R W                                                  A   _                      KENY \E                                              AFAU.
IVWUNDA               ,P            K
nFI  /                                                                                                                      -7-sv ';n.                                 XA<z;(ij  
/           (                                                                              R; 0                                                               r    K
> -iAJOR SNG Y ndo: h t '
0t \ <<// < /( ~~~~-                                                                    A        ibe I  BEa
'A\NISARQ/I./ j 'ZANZIBAR
rx \ JE N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M:and                                                                                       I   ,     -   -    J    oANoy5
A /l  -\ -j             -.>p 7 s ik r  /. .      .   ' A C P                                                                         N or l I    A wm e   +S      P E M 3AY
r -.  h            \            °     ~            -     ~     -           )     k           ,          i         Z/ NZIA lbA
Ao'g. 'k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ or   MY
-\                                                                                    *                        * DAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ES-SALAAM
2A    Bl N           4 X               i-I;5 ;v /0                                                                                            ngruU\FwKvti
ESM-SAL4AM
2  ,    \    1,_[>         ,4,/+(              " - 1' X )                 M;onge                                   \~~~M,  k-n o' c 
,ZAMBIA                   V
, DA^IRY DEVtELOPMENT PROJC                                                         U/ar/a 54   ::   909                               ue         >Mgo2+
+   PnAdpa/Anpads    -              j~~,'dil                       -hV,3
o DGlryFwrn$4Nllretr  gU MsQ L                                                                                            Z    M .Q  -..  \/
A   Milk pim?erinlg Fo~ijifr¢s  :                                     v5G sa. /
I eJSHA U) iMWz Co,,,,Wtvw  I          0R$\t                         ;                  ~       NGEA                >      _          >       
-    Re9iGnel -omeldelA s                                                                                       *0 Z, A Jr : A                     ; .      
-+ rtenGeQ bGAmaie 22  0U  \h4 LW1)  -'_~ 0 :  \0  0}:.......................  



