CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 580 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 15, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 580 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 15, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 15, 1975, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Certain Parts of the Project will be carried out by Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (hereinafter called TRDB) as a financial intermediary with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to TRDB part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided, and
certain Parts of the Project will be carried out under the supervision of the Tanzania
Livestock Development Authority (hereinafter called LIDA);
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association, TRDB and LIDA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
TRDB and LIDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes, all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿0
4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "DAFCO" means Tanzania Dairy Farming Company, a subsidiary of
LIDA;
(d)   "NARCO" means National Ranching Company, a subsidiary of LIDA;
(e)   "TDL" means Tanzania Dairies Limited, a subsidiary of LIDA;
(f)   "TSC" means Tanzania Sisal Corporation;
(g)   "Ujamaa village" means a village duly registered as a cooperative under
the Borrower's Cooperative Societies Act, 1968;
(h)   "NAFCO" means National Agricultural and Food Corporation;
(i)   "KNCU" means Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union Ltd; and
(j)   "Beneficiaries" means the following entities to which TRDB proposes
to make, or has made, a loan under the Project: DAFCO, NARCO, NAFCO, KNCU,
TDL, TSC and the 50 Ujamaa villages carrying out Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than


﻿5
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth, or referred
to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of- 6%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 1985 and ending May 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative and agricultural practices and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause TRDB and
LIDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all their respective obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,


﻿6
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TRDB
and LIDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under Category
(1) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to TRDB under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TRDB under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part E(3) of the Project, the Borrower shall
(i) furnish to the Association a detailed plan, acceptable to the Association, for
the program of applied investigational work for animal disease control, not later
than December 31, 1976, or such other date as the Association shall agree, and
(ii) employ a specialist whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association shall consult, at the request
of one or the other but in any case not less than once every year, on the level
of milk prices in Tanzania, with a, view to ensuring that said milk prices are set
at levels sufficient to assure adequate returns to producers and processors operating
efficiently.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   TRDB or LIDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TRDB or LIDA will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement; and


﻿7
(c)   the organization, powers and responsibilities of any Beneficiary shall
have been altered in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the execution
of the Project or the efficient operation of such Beneficiary.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely
that any event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and TRDB or LIDA as the case may be.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
TRDB and LIDA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   not less than three of the dairy farm group managers referred to in
Part E(1) of the Project have been recruited and have taken up their posts.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TRDB and LIDA, and is legally binding
upon TRDB and LIDA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TRDB,
is legally binding upon the Borrower and TRDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 28, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
Section 5.04. The provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
0


﻿9
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Loans made by TRDB:                              80% of amounts
disbursed under
such loans
(a)  under Part A             3,800,000
of the Proj-
ect
(b)  under Parts              2,700,000
B through D
of the Project
(2)  Technical assist-                                100% of foreign
ance:                                            expenditures or
80% of local ex-
penditures
(a)   salaries and            1,700,000
fees
(b)   equipment and             300,000
vehicles
(3)  Unallocated                    1,500,000
TOTAL        10,000,000


﻿11
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
expenditures incurred after May 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000;
(b)   expenditures under Category (1)(a) for each dairy production unit until
the Association has received evidence that a farm group manager has been appointed
to supervise such unit; and
(c)   expenditures under Category (1)(a) for each of the dairy production
units to be established by NAFCO, TSC and KNCU until the Association shall
have approved the contract between DAFCO and such respective Beneficiary
referred to in Section 2.08(c) of the Project Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the


﻿12
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any itent in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Borrower's long-term program to develop
dairy farming. The Project consists of the following Parts:
A:    The establishment, development and operation by DAFCO, NAFCO,
TSC and KNCU of about 17 dairy production units of about 350
cows each, located at 9 locations.
B:    The establishment of small dairy production units of about 20 cows
each by 50 Ujamaa villages.
C:    The establishment by NARCO of a dairy heifer breeding unit.
D:    The carrying out by TDL of the following:
(1)   The construction of two collection centers and the purchase and
use of one milk tanker to improve its milk collection in the
Dar es Salaam area;
(2)   The purchase and use of one milk tanker to improve its milk
collection in the Arusha area; and
(3)   The expansion of its milk processing facilities at Dar es Salaam
to double the present capacity.
E:    The utilization of technical assistance as follows:
(1)   By LIDA: the employment of five dairy farm group managers,
and one manager for the heifer breeding unit; one specialist in:
(i) machinery maintenance; (ii) dairy husbandry; (iii) pasture
improvement; and (iv) dairy economics; consultancy work on
irrigation, milk processing and farm structures; and the
procurement and operation of the necessary equipment and
vehicles.
(2)   By TRDB: the employment of one financial specialist and a
project preparation team  consisting of one dairy husbandry
specialist, one pasture specialist, one agriculturalist and one


﻿14
specialist in animal resources and livestock extension services;
and the procurement and operation of the necessary equipment
and vehicles.
(3)   By the Livestock Development Division of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture: the employment of a veterinary
economist to conduct a program of applied investigational work
for animal disease control; and the procurement and operation
of the necessary equipment and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1980.


