Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7896
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PiKISTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1256-PAK)
*                                           JUNE 30, 1989
EMENA Regional Office
r
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Washington, D.C. 204_;
U.S.A.
Offce to DweclatG0Wo 4
OpetatmwM Ivakuattin
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESID-eNT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan -
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1256-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1256-PAK)* prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1256-PAK)
Table of Contents
Pale No.
Preface                            .. ... ... i
Basic Data Sheetheet.. ..       ..... ........                              ii
Highlights .l....iv
I. INTODUCTRON........ ........                                   1
II.  OBJECTIVES O.F TA-       .      ............2
The Structural Adjustment Progra.                            3
Development Planning. ....... ......       . .          3
Agriculture and Water Sectors.                          4
Energy...    4
Industry .......     .      .      .      .             5
Other Sectors             5......             ..5
Project Administration .       .                        5
III.  DIPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE UNDER TA-I    .....        .6
Project Administration         .............                 6
Staffing of TAPCAPC............. .                      6
Di sbursements..      .......................           7
IV.  IDA'S ROLE IN IMPLEMENTATION OF TA-I..........                9
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS OF EXP ERIENCE.............           10
Table I:       Sumuary Description of Sub-projects                       14-18
An;nex:        Sub-project Description and Performance                   19-54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1256-PAK)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on a Technical
Assistance Project involving a US$7.0 million IDA Credit to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan with the objective of providing support for structural
adjustment measures. The Credit was approved on May 11. 1982, and became
effective on September 9, 1982. The closing date of December 31, 1985 was
extended to December 31, 1986. The period during which disbursements were
permitted was extended to September 30, 1987. Project accounts were closed
on December 11, 1987. An outstanding balance of US$0.38 million was
cancelled.
This Project Completion Report is based on a review of the
President's  Report  (No.P-3315-PAK)  dated  May  11, 1982, the Develoipmit
Credit Agreement dated June 23, 1982, and records and files maintained by
IDA  and  the  Technical  Assistance Project Cell (TAPC) of the Hinistr-of
Planning and Development. This Report has been jointly prepared by IDA'.
Resident Mission in Pakistan and TAPC officials.
This Report is divided into two sections: a Project Completion
Report (alongwith a Table listing a siiary description of subprojects)
covering Project Objectives and Performance as a whole, and an Annex
providing   a  description  of  the  Objectives  and  Performance  of  each
subproject financed under the Credit.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on March 27, 1989, for comments
by May 5, 1989, but none were received.



- Ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1256-PAK)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(US $ millions;
Oritinal   Disbursed    Cancelled
Credit 1256-PAK             7.0          6.6          0.4
CNUULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
FY82   FY83   F       FY8    FY86  FY87  FY88
(i) Planned                  0.6      3.1    5.3    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
(ii) Actual                    -       0.5    1.4    1.9    5.1    6.1    6.6
(iii) Actual as % of Planned    0       16    26      27     73     87     94
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Identification/Preparation                      September   1981
Decision Memorandum                                 (D.a.)
Negotiations                                    April 28,   1982
Board Approval                                  May   11,   1982
Credit Agreement Date                           June  23,   1982
Effectiveness                                   September 9,1982
Closing Date   (Original)                       December 31,1985
(Revised)                        December 31,1986



- iii -
ISSION DATA
Month/    No. of    No. of    Staff
!Yer      Persons   Weeks     Weeks
Supervision I                        7/82         2       2.5        5
Supervision II                       12/82        1       2          2
Supervision III                      10/83        2       2          4
Supervision IV                        3/84        3       1          3
Supervision V                        5/85         2       2          4
Supervision VI                       11/85        1       2          2
Supervision VII                       3/86        2       1.5        3
Supervision VIII                     10/86        2       1          2
Supervision IX                       8/87         2       1          2
Total:                                      27
OTHER DATA
Borrower:                 Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Executing Agency:         Technical Assistance Project Cell,
Ministry of Planning & Development
Fiscal Year of Borrower:        July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency:           Pak Rupees (Rs)
Exchange Rate - FY82:     USS 1 = Rs 10.55
Completion Year - FYP8:  USS I = Rs 17.6



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TECHNIC4L ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1256-PAK)
HIGHLIGHTS
The redit was authorized in conjunction with a $140 million
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit in May 1982. The main purpose of the
Credit was to finance studies and reviews in support of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program. Although other donors finance technical
assistance in Pakistan, such financing is principally for project
preparation or institution building purposes and not available for
supporting policy reform programr.
The Credit was designed to support the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program in the following ways:
a)   Development olanning.  The planning process was to be supported
by the provision of computer equipment and consultant services
for developing a macro-economic forecasting model, developing
flow-of-funds matrices and training of local staff (para. 2.05).
b)   Aariculture and Water Sectors.  Consultant services, training and
equipment was to be provided to the Agricultural Prices
Commission (APCOM) and the undertaking of high priority
pre-investment studies in the sectors (para. 2.06).
c)   Enerey.  Consultant services was to be provided to review the
prospects for additional investments in the oil and gas
sub-sectors, and to re-evaluate the reserves at existing fields.
Assistance was to be given to the Water and Planning Development
Authority (WAPDA) to establish a planning model for investment
for power generation (paras. 2.07-2.08).
d)   Industry.  Studies were to be done on (i) effective protection to
reform the tariff structure; (ii) investment requirements in key
large scale manufacturing sectors; and (iii) the policy framework
for private industrial investment (paras. 2.10-2.11).
e)   Oth2r.  About 25% of the Credit was left unallocated to finance
studies that were effected to be identified during the dialogue
between the Bank and the Government on structural adjustment
issues.(para. 2.12).
The Government's Technical Assistance Project Cell (TAPC) within
the Ministry of Finance's Planning Division was to be responsible for
overall supervision and monitoring of the project. TAPC remained
understaffed until 1985. With a heavy workload, it became difficult to
carry out all of its responsibilities in a timely manner (paras. 2.13 and
3.03).



Disbursement;  lagged and the Credit was closed on 12/11/87, a
delay of 18 months from appraisal. Ninety five percent of the credit was
disbursed. Major s.easons for delays were: (i) initial understaffing of
TAPC; (ii) a delay in establishing formal procedures; (iii) slow payment
procedures on some sub-projects; and (iv) the requirement of approval from
several ministries for unallocated funds (paras. 3.07-3.08).
Only three of the above 50 sub-projects financed by the project
were not completed.
The project's basic objectives of providing support for the
preparation and execution of GOP's structural adjustment programs and
identifying investment opportunities and requirements in high priority
sectors was achieved.  The project facilitated a continuous GOP/Bank
dialogue on reform issues and on the design of policy reform programs. It
helped expedite the implementation of agreements unier the Energy Sector
anad the Export Development loans. The sectoral composition of
sub-projects was broader than envisaged at appraisal and included
sub-projects in sectors not identified at appraisal (para. 5.01).
The following were some of the important lessons learned from the
project:
a)   There is a need to define precisely the composition and staffing
level of the project implementation unit. Failure in having done
so initially was a reason for delay in project implementation.
b)   A balance should be maintained between pre-identified
sub-projects and unidentified projects. Pre-identification of
sub-projects allows for smoother and more rapid project
execution. However, unallocated funds providing financing for
sub-projects that are identified as the Government proceeds with
its structural adjustment program provide useful flexibility. An
unallocated amount not exceeding 25-30% of the Credit amount
would be desirable.
c)   Adoption and use of specific eligibility criteria for selecting
projects is important to implement the project efficiently.
d)   Adequate Bank staff resources should be allocated to supervise
the implementation of th project (paras. 5.04 and 5.05).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKTSTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1256-PAK)
I. Introduction
1.01    TA-I  (Credit  1256-PAK)  was  the  first  of  three  IDA Technical
Assistance (TA) Credits that have been provided to Pakistan to-date. The
rost recent Credit (Cr 1755-PAK) mounting to US$ 7 million, approved on
January 20, 1987, brings the total of these TA Credits to USS 21 million.
TA Credit 1256-PAK was approved on May 11, 1982 in conjunction with a
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (La 2166-PAK/Cr 1255-PAK) amounting to
US$ 140 million. The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) provided support for
GOP's structural and policy reform programs in priority sectors. The TA
Credit   complemented   these   activities   by   providing   finances  for
high-priority  program,  studies  and  reviews that could provide a direct
input into GOP's Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). Provision of support
for the Government's policy reform program has been retained as a major
objective of subsequent TA projects.
1.02    Although   Pakistan   receives  substantial  asounts  of  technical
assistance from a variety of sources, bilateral as well as multilateral,
the  Bank/IDA  is    one  of  the larger donors. Resources provided by the
other donors are used primarily for project preparation or institution
building purposes, whereas the IDA credits, as indicated above, provide
support for GOP's * structural and sectoral) policy reform progrmam In
this regard, the IDA credits represent a new initiative, as they provide
financing  for  activities  that  are  generally  not  funded  under the TA
programs  of other  donors.  However,  these  TA  Credits   facilitate and
cowplement the funds available from other sources by improving the overall
policy and incentive framework in major e ctors, which leads to a more
stable environment for project investments.
1.03    The  major  goals  of  TA  Credit 1256-PAK included support for (i)
strengthening the medium_-term planning process - in particular GOP's
resource mobilisation objectives; (ii) rationalising prices, subsidies and
other charges to provide incentives for increasing productivity; (iii)
reorienting  public expenditure prograam  towards the more efficient use and
maintenance of existing infrastructure and productive facilities; (iv)
streamlining the tariff and regulatory framework to encourage the private
sector   to   play  a  larger  role  in  the  industrial  sector;  and  (v)
complementing the existing export promotion measures through flexible
exchange rate management, and import liberalisation to expose domestic
industry to increased competition. GOP's efforts to divert increased
resources towards high-priority projects in agriculture, industry, energy
and other sectors were to be supported through pre-investment studies to
identify investment requirements in these sectors.
1.04    This   Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  is  the  first  PCR  for
Technical Assistance projects in Pakistan, and should be viewed as part of
the ongoing TA program in Pakistan. As the other two TA projects are still
under implementation, it is too early to assess the performance and impact
of IDA's overall technical assistance strategy. This report, therefore,
focuses only on the design and implementation of the first TA Credit.



-2-
Section II presents a brief summary of the program of policy reforms that
had been agreed under the SAL. and of the studies that had been agreed
under TA-[ in support of these policy reforms; a review of implementation
experience under the TA Credit is presented in Section 111; the Bank/IDA's
input during the execution of this Project is reviewed in Section IV: and
finally, Section V presents some lessons from experience under the first
TA Project that could serve as inputs for the preparation of subsequent
projects, and/or facilitate the execution of ongoing projects.
I. Obiectives of TA-I
2.01    Pakistan's  development  record  during  the pas. 20 years has been
uneven. A period of rapid economic growth during the 1960s was followed by
relative stagnation in the mid-1970s. Most large scale industries, banks
and life insurance companies were nationalised in the early 1970s, which
had adverse effects on private investment. At the same time, a number of
large, long-gestation projects in industry (notably the Pakistan Steel
Mill) %ere initiated. The system of five year development plans, which
provided a framework for programming the future phasing of development
expenditures, was discontinued, and public inNestments were allocated
through annual development plans. At the same time, measures to improve
the welfare of urban wage earners (including substantial wage increases
and over-staffing of the nationalised public sector enterprises) were
introduced. Consumer interests were additionally protected through price
controls and subsidies, while producer prices of major agricultural
products were restrained to generate revenues, from exports of rice and
cotton, to finance the additional investments and subsidies. Finally,
following the initial increase in oil prices in 1973-74, the pace of
public   investment   was  maintained  through  increased  borrowing,  both
externally (mainly from OPEC countries) as well as from domestic sources.
This led to a relaxation in fiscal discipline, as well as an upsurge in
inflation and a depletion of foreign exchange reserves.
2.02    The  new  Government  which  came  to  power  in 1977 embarked on a
series   of  reforms  aimed  at  achieving  financial  stability,  reviving
economic growth, and restoring private sector confidence. A combination of
tax measures, increases in wheat, sugar, fertiliser and petroleum product
prices,   railway   fares   and   water   rates,  alongwith  restraints  on
expenditure, led to a reduction in budgetary deficits and subsidies.
Medium term development planning was re-introduced with the launching of
the Fifth Five Year Plan (FY79-83), while adjustments in agricultural
input and output prices, as well as better investment programming in major
sectors, allowed a resumption of high overall economic growth. These
reforms and further measures proposed during 1980 enabled GOP to reach
agreement with the IMF on a substantial Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
program (SDR 1,268 million over three years) in November 1980. The
availability   of  EFF  resources,  alongwith  large  inflows  of  workers'
remittances, allowed for a more manageable balance of payments position.
GOP policy makers were thus able to shift their attention from short-term
stabilisation   problems   to   more  longer-term  issues.  A  medium  term
adjustment program focussing on rebuilding an effective planning system,
steps to implement a well conceived National Agricultural Policy (which
was finalised in 1980), policy reforms to accelerate the development of
Pakistan's oil and gas potential, and rationalisation of the industrial
structure   was   developed   in   consultation   with   the   Bank.   This



-3-
program was to be supported by the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit.
The major components of the SAL, as weli as the studies that were to be
funded out of T.A. Credit 1256-PAK in support of this program are
described in the following paragraphs.
2.03    The  Government'  u edium-tern macro-economic targets, proposed for
the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-88) included:
(i)   GDP  growth  of  6.5%  p.a.  with growth rates of 5% p.a. for
agriculture and 10% p.a. for manufacturing;
(ii)  Gross  national savings  to  be increased from 13* to 16* of
GNP;
(iii) The share of investment in GNP to be raised from 16* to the
maximua extent consistent with improvements in savings and
trade performance, with the proportion of private to total
investment rising from around 33t to 50S;
(iv) Domestic Credit expansion to be kept in line with the growth
of nominal GNP in order to reduce inflation to under 10*
P.a.;
(v) Fiscal deficit financed fromi the domestic banking system to
be kept around 2t of GDP; and
(vi)  The  current  account  deficit  to be gradually reduced from
about 4% of GNP to 2.5* by FY88.
The Structural Adjustment ProgrN
2.04    Develovment  Planning.       As stated  above, GOP attached a high
priority towards reviving and strengthening the planning system. This
involved efforts in two directions. First, a. shortfall in resource
availability had resulted in a decline in real public investment during
FY79 and 80, and had prevented the intended shift of resources towards
high priority projects in agriculture, water, energy and the social
sectors. Responding to the increased aid availability during FY80 and 81,
GOP prepared a revised Public Sector Development Progrsm (PSDP) for
FY82-84. Under this program, the shift in expenditures towards priority
sectors was to be accomplished mainly by reducing outlays for fertiliser
subsidies and public sector investments in industry. The PSDP for FY82-84
was to be followed by a similar program for FY83-85 which would not only
reinforce the shift in plan outlays but would also provide a link between
the PSDPs and the longer term perspective adopted for the Sixth Five Year
Plan (FY84-88). Second, this revival of development planning was to be
complemented by a strengthening of the Planning Comission through an
expansion in the number and capability of project monitoring staff, and
through a more rigorous involvement of the Planning Commission at all
stages of the project selection process.
2.05    These  efforts  to  strengthen  the  planning  process  were  to be
supported under the TA Credit through the provision of computer equipment
and consultant services for developing a macro-economic forecasting model
on a mini-computer. Additionally, consultant services were to be provided
to continue ongoing work on the development of flow-of-funds matrices for



-4-
Pakistan,    train local staff in further disaggregating and updating these
matrices, and maintaining the aystem.
2.06    Agricultere  and Water  sectors.       OP's revised agriculture and
water sector policies, as reflected in the 1980 National Agricultural
Policy, emphasised (a) the reorientation of public expenditure towsrds
rehabilitation   and   adequate  operation/maintenance  of  the  irrigation
aystem, improvements in the efficiency of water use through on-farm and
water course improvements, promoting private tubewell development in fresh
groundwater  areas, and  drainage  in waterlogged  and  saline  areas  to
complement   the   existing   surface   irrigation  system;  (b)  continued
adjustment in input and output prices to provide incentives for increasing
the productivity of land and other key inputs, progressive reductions
and/or removal of subsidies on agricultural inputs, and strengthening the
ability of the Agricultural Prices Comission (APFCM) to prepare price
policy recommendations; and (c) promoting a balanced development of
agriculture,   including   livestock,  fisheries  and  new  crops, notably
oilseeds.
2.07    About  30 man-months of consultants,  vehicles, equipment and 10
overseas training fellowships were to be provided to APCON under the
Project. This assistance would enable APCOM to strengthen its procedures
for the collection of fare level data, initiate the compilation of
information on agricultural input and output prices, production etc from
foreign sources, and develop methods for measuring the impact of price
recomendations on consumers' and farmers' real incomes. Additionally, to
support GOP's efforts to direct increased investment towards high-priority
projects in the agriculture and water sectors, finances were to be
provided for pre-investment studies for such projects.
2.08    Energv         In  order  to  reverse the trend of rising petroleu
imports and to av^rt the prospect of an increasingly serious shortage of
natural gas, GOP planned to introduce a number of changes in its energy
sector policies. In the petroleum sub-sector, pricing and production
arrangements with the major existing producer, Pakistan Oilfields Limited,
were renegotiated, and the price of crude oil from new wells at the
company's Meyal oilfied was linked to import parity prices. A number of
joint venture exploration agreements with private oil companies for
concessions in previously unexplored areas were signed, and GOP invited
private companies to participate in exploring selected areas that were
held under license by the state owned Oil and Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC). Gas exploration efforts were to be enhanced through additional
investments at existing fields and the adoption of a more general pricing
policy   that   linked   producer   prices  to world  oil  prLces. Energy
conservation efforts we-e to be supported by increasing consumer prices
for petroleum products and natural gas in line with cost increases and the
value  of equivalent  energy  from fuel oil respectively. A 10-year energy
development pl4n was to be drawn up to ensure a coordinated development of
all energy sources. This plan would require specific studies of oil and
gas prospects, a power development strategy upto the year 2000, including
a feasibility study of the Kalabagh iam Project, and an evaluation of coal
prospects.
2.09    The  TA  Project was  to  support  these  efforts by financing the
services of consultants to review the prospects for additional investments
in the oil and gas sub-sectors, and to re-evaluate the reserves at
existing fields. In addition, assistance was to be provided to the Water
and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) to set up a planning model to
formulate a long-tern investment plan for power generation.



-5-
2.10    Industry.    GOP's  industrial policies since 1977 were designed to
encourage   greater   private   sector   participation  and  investment  in
manufacturing, while limiting the role and improving the efficiency of
public   sector   manufacturing   enterprises.  A  number  of  initiatives,
including denationalisation of selected industries and constitutional
safeguards against further nationalisation, opening up of new sectors for
private investment, and additional incentives through tax holidays and
easier access to imported raw materials, had led to a substantial rise in
private investment. GOP was also committed to additional reforms including
a simplification and/or reduction in regulations, import liberalisation in
order to improve industry's access to imported inputs while exposing
domestic producers to increased competition, and flexible exchange rate
management to ensure competitiveness. The major emphasis of the SAL
program was on a reform of the tariff structure so as to achieve a more
uniform   level   of  effective  protection,  and  the  introduction  of  a
performance evaluation system which would develop a set of objective
performance criteria for evaluating and rewarding managers of public
manufacturing enterprises.
2.11    Under   the  TA  Project,  finaices  were  to  be  provided  for  a
comprehensive study on effective protection, basod on a sample survey of
large-scale industrial enterprises. The study eas expected to provide the
basis for a reform of the tariff structure. Funds were also to be provided
for setting up the Public Enterprise Signalling System, which was to
consist of (a) a computerised managemeot information system, (b) a
performance evaluation system, and (c) a managemet incentive system that
links rewards with the achievement of agreed performance targets. Both of
these subprojects had been initiated with funds from IDA' a Project
Preparation Facility (PPFs 187-PAK and 182-PAK respectively) and were to
be continued under the TA Project. In addition, the Project was to provide
finances   for   studies   to   estimate  investment  requirements  in  key
large-scale manufacturing sectors - e.g. fertiliser, textiles, cement,
engineering    -  and  to identify the likely needs for infrastructure, raw
materials, and finances to facilitate such investments. Finally, studies
to  review  and  derive  recommendations for reform of the policy framework
governing private industrial investment were to be funded.
2.12    Other   Sectors.         In  addition  to  the  specific  components
identified during appraisal, about 25% of total Credit proceeds had been
left  unallocated,  to  finance studies that were expected to be identified
during  the  ongoing  dialogue  between  GOP  and  the  Bank  on structural
xidjustment issues.
2.13    Proiect  Administration.       The TA Project was to be administered
by   a  Technical  Assistance  Project  Cell  (TAPC)  within  the  Planning
Division,   which  was  to  be  responsible  for  overall  supervision  and
mon.Atoring of the Project, and the programing of all funds related to the
Proj 'tct. All activities under the Project were subject to normal GOP
proceddures for the review and approval of studies, and were subject to
prior approval by IDA. The Project financed 100X of the total expenditure
on st.\idies, consultants and overseas training, 100l of the foreign or
local ex-factory expenditures for vehicles and equipment, and 65% of
expendi':ures  for  all  other  items  procured  locally. Disbursements were
expected to be completed in about 42 months - i.e. by December 31, 1985.



-6-
III. Implementation Experience Under TA-I
3.01    The  TA  Credit    provided  financing  for  about 50 subprojects -
studies, consultancies, equipment and training activities - related to
GOP's   structural   and  policy  reform  programs.  The  final  nw6er  of
subprojects   was  substantially  larger  than  anticipated  at  appraisal,
primarily because a large number of short term studies and consultancy
assignments   were  financed  under  the  Credit.  Again,  about  half  tie
subprojects involved local firms either as the primary consultant or under
joint venture arrangements with foreign firms; the lower unst cost of
hiring local consultants allowed for a larger number of activities to be
supported. Although the Project was completed over a period of about 60
months (as compared to the appraisal estimate of 42 months) the Project's
basic  objective  of providing support for the preparation and execution of
GOP's   structural   adjustment   programs,   and   identifying  investment
opportunities and requirements in high priority sectors, was achieved. A
detailed description of project implementation experience, including a
discussion of the reasons for delays in implementation during FY483-85, iS
presented in the remainder of this section.
3.02    As  this  TA  Credit was  the  first  of its kind in Pakistan, the
Government and IDA's approach towards such free standing TA Projects was
expected to evolve over time. In particular, it was expected that
experience under TA-I would lead to the development of eligibility
criteria for assignments that could be funded out of TA credits, standard
procedures for consultant selection, a model contract for consultant
assignments, and modalities for reviewing consultants' performance. Given
its  critical role ia each of these activities, the setting up dnd adequate
staffing  of  TAPC  was  felt to be crucial. Equally important was the fact
that  a  regular  dialogue  between  the  Cell  and  the  Bank/IDA   on the
modalities   for   subproject   selection  and  the  hiring/supervision  of
consultants  be established. Delays in the execution of the TA proj- t that
were initially encountered (see paras 3.03-3.08 below) can to a great
extent be attributed to the difficulties experienced in this regard.
ProJect Administration
3.03    Staffino  of TAPC.   While the TAPC was set up by the Government in
early 1983, its staffing position remained highly unsatisfactory until mid
1985. Until that time the Cell consisted of a Project Director (who was
assigned this responsibility in addition to his ongoing responsibilities
as Chief of the International Economics Section of the Planning Division)
and  one  Assistant  Chief/Section  Officer.    These  staff  members  were
responsible for all activities under the Project, including administration
and accounts, selection of subprojects, review of consultants' selection,
and supervision of the consultants' work. Given this heavy work-load, TAPC
was able to accomplish only a limited number of its responsiblities. In
particular, the absence of a qualified accountant made it impossible for
TAPC to maintain adequate accounts, and to have those accounts addited
annually, as was required under the Project. Furthermore, TAPC was unable
to prepare and submit to the Bank/IDA quarterly and annual progress
reports, as provided under the Development Credit Agreement.



-7-
3.04    In  *id-1985,  une Deputy Secretary, one Accountant and one Section
Officer were assigned to TAPC, in addition to the existing Project Diector
and Assistant Chief. With the addition of these three officials, the
administration side of TAPC was sufficiently staffed; the added strength
allowed  TAPC  to  maintain  adequate  project  accounts, and to have those
accounts audited by the Accountant General Pakistan Revenue (AGPR). Since
that tims, three Audit reports have been submitted to IDA, and cover (i)
all expenditures under the project upto June 30, 1985; (ii-) expenditures
during July 1, 1985 - June 30, 1986; and (iii) expenditures between July
1, 1986 and the closing of this Project in September/October 1987.
Progress  reports  covering  various  aspects of project implementation are
also being submitted iu a timely manner.
3.05    While  TAPC's  staffing  position on the administrative side is now
satisfactory, on the economic/technical side it is not so. Apart from the
Project Director (who, as noted earlier, is assigned this as an additional
charge)  TAPC  has  only  one  Assistant Chief. This  single  official is
responsible for reviewing all sub-project proposals and for supervising
consultants  wtrking  on  about 50  specific assignments'. Apart from the
very large number of subprojects, one official cannot provide the breadth
of expertise necessary for supervising subprojects in almost all sectors
of the economy. Consequently, the ability of TAPC to provide effective
inputs into the design and execution of a large number of subprojects is
circumcribed.
3.06    On  the  Bank's  side,  the  Project  was  initially manated by the
Pakistan Division in the South Asia Programs Department. Subsequently, in
March 1984, supervision responsib_lity was transferred to the Resident
Mission  in  Pakistan  (RNP),  as  it was felt that proJect implementation
could be expedited through the close day-to-day contact between the TAPC
and Bank staff that RMP could provide.
3.07    Disbursementt.      The Project was expected to be implemented and
disbursementa comploted in about 42 months. However, in the initial years
the pace of implementation was substantially slower than anticipated. By
end-June 1985 only about SDR 1.6 million (25X of Credit proceeds) had been
disbursed under the Credit, and disbursements were not expected to be
completed for another 24 months. The closing date for this Project was
thus extended to end-December 1986 (i.e. by 12 months). The Project closed
on Decedber 31, 1986 with SDR 6.96 million (95X of the Credit amount)
comitted. Of a total of about 50 subprojects approved under this Credit,
6 were in the process of finalisation as of June 1987. As these
subprojects were key inputs into GOP's policy reform process and the
Bank's lending operations in social sectors, Bank management approved an
extension upto September 30, 1987 of the period during which disbursements
are permitted. Following the completion of these subprojects by end 1987,
ProJect accounts were closed on December 11, 1987 (involving a delay of
about 18 months as compared to appraisal estimates); an outstanding
balance of SDR 339 thousand was cancelled.
/I      The number  of subprojects remains high, even after the completion
of a number of TA-I utudies, as the same official is assigned to review
subprojects under the Second and Third T.A. Credits also.



-8-
3.08    A  number  of factors  contributed  towards  the initial delays in
proJect execution.
(i)   As indicated earlier,  TAPC was significantly understaffed
until mid-19865,  and  wa  thus  not able  to carry out its
extensive responsibilities. The situation improved markedly
after additional ataff were asigned to the Cell, and during
7188 and 87 an average of SDR 2 million was disbursed under
the Credit, as compared to annual disburse-ants of about SDR
0.5 million in FYs83-85.
(ii)  Procedures   for   the   selection  of subprojects  and  the
recruitment of consultants were not formelised at appraisal,
and were expected to evolve over time as the Government and
IDA gained greater experience with the execution of the TA
Project.  A   set of  standard  procedures  for consultant
selection (based On the evaluation schem and rating chart
used by the 8comomic Research Section of Planning Division)
was issued by TAPC in December 1983. Sme ministries and
agencies found these to be unduly restrictive, particularly
as TAPC allowed no deviation from these procedures if the
study/subproject was  to be  financed out of the TA Credit,
and delayed submitting their subprojects for TA financing
while they evaluated options for obtaining finances frum
other  sorces. These  procedwres were reviewed by T^PC and
IDA, and a more flexible set of procedures was evolved,
which is being used for selecting subprojects and recruiting
consultants    under    subsequent   TA   Credits.  However,
implementation of TA-I suffered partly as a result of the
initial uncertainties over consultant selection procedures.
(iii) Execution of a number of studies was delayed during FY83-85
as the Government used its own resources to pay consultants,
and    subsequently    claimed    reimbursement   for   these
expenditures  from  the Bank. This payment mechanism required
that approval for each payment had to be obtained from the
Ministry of Finance and the Accountant General's Office. As
a result, the start of ame studies was delayed, while other
studies   were   delayed  during  implementation  a   interim
pay mento were not released promptly.
(iv) A portion of credit proceeds had been left unallocated, in
order to provide resources for financing studies in support
of   structural   reform    that  were   identified   during
implementation. Of the subprojects that were agreed upon at
appraisal, only five I had been explicitly identified.
For all other subproJects - including pro-investment studies
for high priority projects in the agriculture and water
sector, review of investment requirements in key industrial
sectors, and studies in the enorgy sector - the TOR, short
list of firm, letter of invitation etc were expected to be
These  included two subprojects in support of the planning process,
the Effective Protection and Signalling System studies, and components of
the support progrsm for APCOM.



- 9
developed during the initial 12-18 months of the proJect.
However, as the" studies/subprojects involved a number of
ministries,   and   TAPC   was unable  to play  a stronger
coordinating   role   given  its staffing constraints,  the
developynst of specific proposals for financing under the TA
Credit ws not a expeditious as anticipated.
3.09    The  resolution of these implementation issues by mid-1985 led to a
substantial  improvement in project execution. About 50 studies, consultant
ssigzm ents and other subprojects (a detailed description of these
subprojects  is  provided  in  the  Annex)  in  support of the Government's
structural refors  programs were  financed out of the Credit. Of theme,
three subproJects were not completed sucoesfully, for the following
reaons:
(i)   A  review of the wining sector, which wm  to provide an input
for the mineral sector strategy for the Sixth Plan, had to
be dropped as the tax status of the consultant was not
resolved,   and   the   study   was   terminated   after one
introductory visit by the foreign consultant.
(ii)  A  subproject designed to evaluate the feasibility of setting
up five High Tech Institutes in Pakistan was not completed
as the UNDICD, which was designated us the executing agency,
could  not hire  consultants  to carry out  the required
pre-feasibility studies. Only one pre-feasibility study wa
completed (at a cost of about US$ 25,000) by the closing
date.
(iii) A subproject that was designed to estimate operation and
maintenance (O&M) expenditure requirements in the education
sector,  and  to  develop proposals for improved recovery of
O&M  expenditure  chrough  increased  user charges (or other
modes   of    financing)   was  terninated   due   to  the
non-satisfactory performance of consultants. Mid-way through
this study, reviews by GOP and IDA expressed reservations
about   the   accuracy  of the data  collected during  the
consultants' survey. As the consultants were unable to
provile  adequate  justification  for,  or  re-confirm  the
accuracy of, their survey data numbers, the contract was
terminated.
IV. IDA's Role in ImDlementation of TA-I
4.01    As  indicated earlier, the Project was initially supervised by the
Pakistan  Division  in  the South  Asia  Programs Department; supervision
responsibility wa subsequently transferred to the Resident Mission in
Pakistan   (from March  1984).  To  date,  there have been nine  formal
supervisions of the Project, the last six involving supervision of TA-I
alongwith the subsequent TA Credits. In addition, over the past five
years, almost 40 staff weeks have been devoted towards the day to day
supervision  of the Project. This has ir-olved reviewing  TOR and Letters
of Invitation, GOP's evaluations of ptoposalr and consultant selection,



-~10--
and providing coents on interim and final reports for individual
subprojects. Apart from this direct input by NW  staff, Beadquarters staff
from the respective Operations Divisions have also contributed tovards the
supervision of the Project by reviewing progress and providing their
coments on the consultants reports. While the magnitude of ti.e devote,
by HQ staff in this regard cannot be quar4ified, it is clear that
supervision of the TA Project has involved an extensive input of staff
resources. Given the very wide range of issues and areas covered, end the
large   number  of  subprojects  financed  under  TA-I,  this  was  perhaps
inevitable.
4.02    The  involvement  of  IDA  staff  resources  Las  been particularly
pronounced    at two stages of the project - viz at the tim of development
of TOR and in reviewing the cOnsultants' reports. For all subprojects,
draft  TOR   were  provided to IDA, and staff coments on the scope of work
were incorporated in the final TOR . The scope of work was at tines
osustantially modified and its linkage to the GOP/Dank dialogue on policy
issues and to the Bank's lending operations wa made more explicit. The
most intensive input by IDA has been in reviewing the consultants' interim
and final reports. Coments on these reports were conveyed through GOP to
the consultants, and the final product wa revised, leading, in almost all
cases, to a more focussed output that could be used by GOP as an input
into its policy reform progrms .
4.03    The  transfer of supervision resi_nsibility to the Resident Mission
provided an opportunity to strengthen the dialogue between TAPC and the
Bank on Technical Assistance issues. The close proximity of RMP and TAPC
allows for a prompt review of implementation issues and problem (both
informally   and   through   formal  correspondence)  and  for  a  speedier
resolution of such problems. However, while this arrangement has reduced
the time involved in routine correspondence between tle Bank and TAPC, at
the  same  time  it  involves  longer  comunication  WitiAin the Dank (i.e.
between RMP and HQ staff). This is the case particularly for those issues
and areas where specialised input or advice from NO staff is required.
Counications  between  NW   and  HQ  on  such  issues  are facilitated by
ensuring that at least one staff member in the Country Operations Division
allocates  some  part  of  his/her  time  for supervision of TA projects in
general, and for expediting the flow of correspondence between RMP and the
Technical/Sector Divisions in particular.
V. Conclusions and Lessons of ExDeriene
5.01    The   first  Technical Assistance  Project  achieved  its  overall
objective of' providing support for GOP's structural reform program. In
addition, the Project allowed for a continuation of the GOP/Bank dialogue
on structural and sectoral reform issues and the design of policy reform
programs. Implementation of agreements reached under two Sector Loans (the
Energy Sector Loan, Ln 2552-PAK, and the Export Development Loan, Ln
2701-PAh) was also expedited by providing finances for selected studies.
The sectoral composition of subprojects funded under thc project was
substantially   broader   than   envisaged   at   appraisal,  and  included
subprojects in transport, education, health and urban sectors in addition
to those identified at appraisal. These subprojects would not only broaden
the thrust of policy reforms to include the social sectors, but would also
allow for an improvement in GOP's and the Bank's understanding of key



-11-
sectoral issues, which are proposed to be addressed in subsequent Bank
lending    operations.    Notwithstanding   these   overall   achievements,
impleen tation of TA-I highlights a number of issues that need to be kept
in mind while designing any new project.
5.02 Implementation of TA-I during the earlier years (FY83-85) was
substantially slower tLaa anticipated because of the weak staffing
position of TAPC. While there is room for futher strengthening the staff
on the economic and technical side, improvements in disbursements and
overall Project execution observed during FY86 and 87 stem partly fru the
improved staffing position of TAPC. An important lesson from the TA-I
experience, therefore, relates to the need for defining more precisely the
composition and desired level of staffing of the project implementation
unit. Failure to reach agreements on this aspect was a major reason for
the initial delays in implementation of TA-I.
5.03    Activities  that  could be  financed  under  TA-I  covered  a wide
spectrum. These included studies/sub-projects in support of the policy
reform process'/, investment requirements in large scale manufacturing.
pre-feasibility studies for high priority agriculture and energy sector
projects, and institution building activities. This set -f activities is
very broad based, and as a result the prospects for supporting a more
focussed set of sub-projects that are directly linked to the structural
and policy reform process are curtailed. One of the reasons for delays in
Project implementation during the earlier years was that, even though
about  75X  of Credit proceeds had been earmarked for various sectors, ouly
5 sub-projects (accounting for 20S of the Credit) had been explicitly
identified at appraisal. Studies/sub-projects accounting for a major
portion  (80S)  of  the  Credit were  expected  to be developed during the
initial   years   of   Project   implementation.  The  development  of new
sub-projects for financing under the Credit was not as expeditious as
anticipated,   and   as   a  result Project  implementation was  delayed.
Experience under TA-I therefore highlights the need for minimising the
proportion of funds for which specific sub-projects are not identified at
appraisal. However, the Government's policy reform program is an ongoing
activity, and some degree of flexibility in the allocation of TA funds is
also   essential,  in  order  to  provide  funds  for  studies  and  other
sub-projects in priority areas/sectors that may be identified during
Project implementation. A prudent balance between the requirements of
smooth Project execution and support for ongoing policy reform indicates
that the magnitude of unallocated funds under TA Projects should not
exceed 25-30* of the Credit amount. In addition, it is important to
develop explicit eligibility criteria (para 5.04 below) for studies and
other sub-projecte that can be considered for funding under the TA
Projects.
5.04    Development  of  eligibility  criteria  that  are  to be  used for
selecting studies/sub-projects to be funded under the TA Credits is
I/ Under this broad definition of "support for the policy reform
process" the set of activities that can be funded includes studies to (a)
review ths overall or sector policy framework, (b) derive recomeendations
for  policy  reforms  in  priority  sectors, (c) assist GOP in implementing
selected reform; or (d) analyse the impact of specific reforms on various
income groups/sectors etc.



U                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-12-
expected to facilitate the execution of TA Projects. Specifically, these
criteria would (a) ensure that the TA Projects do not duplicate activities
(e.g. project preparation and feasibility studies) that can aAso be funded
from other sources including UNDP, bilateral donor programs, and the
project preparation component that is generally included in Bank/IDA Loans
and Credits; (b) restrict the TA Frojects to a more limited set of
objectives, and thereby allow these Projects to provide a more focussed
and direct input into the policy reform process; and (c) streamline the
administration of ongoing TA Projects by indicating at the outset what
activities are not eligible for TA funding, and thus do not need to be
reviewed/processed in any detail by both GOP and the Bank. In subsequent
TA Projects (particularly TA-III, Cr 1755-PAK) this approach has been
adopted, and a set of eligibility criteria has been drawn up which
restricts sub-projects under TA-III to only those that support GOP's
macro-economic management and policy reform objectives. Agreesent with GOP
was reached during negotiations on the use of those criteria for selecting
sub-projects to be financed under TA-III. The combination of these two
factors (viz. limiting the unallocated portion of Credit proceeds to about
25-30% of the Credit amount, and developing explicit criteria for studies
to be funded under TA-11) is expected to facilitate the implementation of
TA-III.
5.05    Finally,  experience under TA-I highlights the fact that supervison
of TA projects requires extensive inputs of staff resources. This results
both from the large number of subprojects financed as well as the very
broad range of sectors and issues addressed in these projects. While the
input of staff resources on the part of both GOP and IDA was substantial,
there is still room for improvement. on the Government's side there
continues to be a need for further strengthening the economic and
technical side of TAPC by appointing one additional Deputy or Assis.ant
Chief (Technical) to complement the functions performed at present by only
one Assistant Chief. This would not only moderate the work load of the
existing  official but would also allow TAPC to contribute more effectively
towards  the  execution  of  individual  subprojects,  both at the stage of
developing TOR and during the implementation of the respective studies.
Similarly  there  is a scope for further improving the contribution made by
the  Bank/IDA's  supervisory staff by focussing more on the substantive, as
opposed  to  the routine and procedural, aspects of project implementation.
Supervision of the procedural aspects of TA projects has been transferred
to the Resident Mission from March 1984. However, given the nature of
expertise required, enhancing IDA's contribution towards the substantive
(policy) aspects of individual subprojects requi.es the comAitment of
specialist staff from the Sector Operations and Technical Divisions. The
availability of such staff for supervising TA subprojects can only be
ensured by providing, within the annual budgets/work plans of the relevant
Divisions, sufficient time and resources for supervision of the TA
subprojects.
5.06    The   overall   conclusion  fy a  the  TA-I  experience  is  fairly
positive: about 50 subprojects were funded under the Project, of which 27
sub-projects (representing about 45% of the Credit) directly supported the
implementation of GOP's policy reform programs, while another three
subprojects  (accounting   for about 15  of the Credit) contributed towards
improving GOP and the Bank's understanding of the policy reform process; a
total of 9 investment programing and prefeasibility studies (representing
about 30X of the Credit amount) contributed towards GOP's overall reform
objectives   by  promoting  a  shift  of  resources  towards  high-priority



-13-
development projects; in case of eight sub-projects (which accounted for
approximately 7% of Credit proceeds) no follow-up actions were taken by
GOP   following   the   submission   of  the  consultants'  reports.  Three
sub-projects   (accounting   for  about  3%  of  the  Credit  amount) were
terminated. As has been IDA's experience in other countries, in Pakistan
too, it took about three years for an efficient technical assistance
management unit to evolve; TAPC has now attained the capacity for
effectively executing TA projects in Pakistan. The GOP/Bank dialogue on TA
issues has led to the development of standard procedures for consultant
selection and a model contract for consultant services; aa a result, the
time   required  for  the  selection  of  consultants,  which  had  led  to
substantial  delays  under TA-1, has been reduced and imple entation of the
subsequent  TA  projects  is  more  expeditious.  Maintaining this oientum
requires a substantial and continued supervisory input by Bank/IDA staff,
as well as the input and commitment of GOP's managerial and other staff.



PAK :TAN
Tgehnical Assistance Project, Ir 1r 5'-PAK
Table 1: Summary Descriotion ot Sub-Projects
Sector           Sub-Project       Amount         Executing        Major Objectivez and
ritle         lln 'oo1         Acwncy                 Out come
Macro-Econcmic  Flow of Funds    USS  76.7        State Bank       -ro update existing flow of funis matrices, train local staff;
Planning                           +Rs 260.0      of Pakistan
(SOiP)       -Disagqreqated mdtrices fnr FY76-835 developed bY SBP. retrolat
I                                          RFUltpe  ira  is pldng,#eqi.
Balance of        USS  5.1       Ministry of      -Provide computer hardware/software for developing Balance ti
Payments          +Rs 37.2       Planning ani    P.tyemnts (flnP) data base and torec.jtstingmoePl;
fotecasting                      DeveloPment
(MOPD)       -Facilitated recording of BOP information at MOPD, and stien-
gthened capacity for forecasting BOP trends.
Review of         US$  7t. )         I)PD         -Review existing procedures And develop
Pc-[ Form         +Rs 605.9                       recommendtations for simplifying infortmation
and associated                                    content and processing procedures of PC-I Forms;
processing
procedures                                        -No major follow-up or consultants' recommendations (apart
from enhancement from June 1988 in approval power of ministries
and provinces).
Impact of out    USS 268.6           MOPD         -To review prospects for additional sioration to the Middle
and return                                        East, estimate likely inflow of remittances, analyse effect of
migration                                         mioration on domestic labour markets;
-Provided useful inputs for preparation of long-term manpower
employment policies.
Prospects for    US, 26.2            MOPD         -To identify agro-industrial and non-traditional agricultural
non-traditional                                   Products having export potential, develop recommendations to
exports                                           address major constraints;
-Provided inputs for GOP's (onooing) export expansion and
diversification plans.
Export Develop-  USt  55.9       Central Board   -To review existing export incentive scheams and-develop
ment Loan -       +Rs 576.3      of Revenue       recommendations for improving their nperations;
Consultants                        (CDR)
-Provided support for policy reforms aoreed under Export
Development Loan (Ln 2701-PAl)
Advisors for      USS  59.8      Federal Bureau  -To assist FOS strenotheninq its data collection and analysis
federal Bureau                  cof Statistics   procedure.s addressinq speCific issues e.g. non-response in
of Statistics                       (FBS)         industrial surveys;
-Contributed towards expediting release of survey results-
improving their format .mnd presentation.



Mcbilisation ot       253.0          HUPD         -To prepare strategies for mobilisins tinancial resourte-. lice
External Private                                  international private capital markets;
Capital Resourcr-s
-Developed proposals for increased mobilisationa of exterrnal
private capital resources; however no follow-up on cJnsultdnt.'
recommendations.
Computer Equip-  US$  29.4       Economic Advi-  -To provide computers to EAW for strenghtening its data
ment for          *Rs 151.4      sors Wing        collection and analysis functions;
Economic                           (EAW)
Advisors                                          -Contributed towards strengthening  the economic analysis
and reporting of EAU.
Special Consor-  Rs 6012.1           MOPD         -To prepare pre-feasibility studies tar selected projects in
tium Studies                                      less developed areas;
-Required pre-feasibilities completed, circulated to donors
at Decemter 1983 Consortium meetino.
Development of   Rs  600.0       Government cf   -To identify horticulture products in NWFP that have export
Horticulture in                       NWFP        potential, develop recommendations for addressing marketing
NWFP tor Export                                   and other constraints;
-No explicit follow-up actions taken.
Valley Develop-  Rs  492.0       Government of   -To identity various valleys in FATA, catalogue their
ment in Federa-                       NWFP        resource endowments, and develop proposals for infrastructure
lly Adminis-                                      and other developmert projects;
tered Tribal
Areas (FATA)                                      -Provided information on development activities, projects
to be implemented under provincial Annual Development Plans.
Agti'ultute      support for       $      84.1        AP,OM         -To provide consultant services, rquipment and fellowships
Agricultural      *Rs 1362.9                      for overseas training for APCO statf;
Commission
(APCOM)                                         -Assisted in strengthening APCOI's abilities to prepare
price policy recommendations.
Agriculture       Rs   175.0    Ministry of       -To assist MIWA in rreparing background documents for
Sector Loan                      Food and         ASL appraisal;
(ASL)                          Agriculture
Preparation                        (NIWFA)        -No explicit follow-up.
Constraints       Rs  1080.0        MINFA         -To review small farmers' access to essential inputs.
facing small                                      knowledge of improved agricultural practices, derive
farmers                                           recommendations for improving production incentives;
-Provided inputs for long-term agriculture sector strategy
recommended bY National Comissiorn on Agriculture.
Advisor for       S     21.0         MOPD         -To assist MOPD in preParing Sixth Plan agriculture strategy;
Aqricultural
Sel tor                                           -Report used for agriculture sector chapter of Sixth Plan.
t rwo oy         Petroleujm             .J30.00)       M)PD         -To review infrastructure for production/transport/storage ot
Products                                          petroleum products, identity bottlenecks, develop plan tot-
tnfra',trm. tutP                                  upgrading facilities (refininq. pott-handling, inland
transport. and storage);
-Provided inputs for policy retores aqreed undpr Ensergy
Sector Loan (Ln 2552 f'AK).



Long-term Least  S    225.U    W4ter & Pc..er   -To assist WAPViA in developirg a lornu-term investmemrt piun,
Cust Energy                     Develci-;enst    estimdte long-term marginal cost of. power generati-on by
Development Plan                Authority        using WASP-I1  Computer Progras;
(WAPPA)
-Computer hardware/software assisted WAPDIA ju imphlmeriting
lono-ters least cost development plarn for power seLtor.
Reservoir         S    lbO.U    Fauji            -To provide an updated estimate ot gas re.etvevt dt diMdli LUsla  Iltzll;
Estimate tor                    F'oundation
Mari Gas tield                                   -Assisted GOP in determining priorities segarding alttL*rnate
uses ot natural g4s.
Heservoir         S    325.S    Oil & Gas        -To est nate extent ot recovetable reserves at Dakitrsi  nd k.aoll  AI.1m
Studies (Dakhni                 Development
T land Alas)                    Corporation      -Provided inputs tur  JiU's ongoing gaS expJoration arsIf
(OtiDC)       development progratms.
pead.ibility ot   Ns  2794.0    Goverrsment of   -To ide-ntit'y 100 'ilt:. in NWt!P  sAit.Ablta et *.s'-t tting3 ur. :.hsdI 
ss'ttirsg sup t10                    NWFP        tsydel. statltdtionrr:, i-n-oamnd dpprLurij.tv- tvi t-,rlogieji lut pFutwi
-.mall tiydt-lInrtf/d.rbtn
'>.t.1 idol'J ins NWI:P
IsJ-rit i fi .ld  t1il- .ittzb  , IIit  SldI I  toyd.Itl     .Iat I sI r, ,:.  ol-5 il  wss IsIt
.lt V IStCIng .#I P, A[,J a Ito lid1Lor.S  UJorlow  84hJb*  I 
Industry                                            MM $    :-'*:a;  IPI)  -1  atsalyse Stl u tuille, elr ttivertsse'..  arill aplosp t. rti- *t
Ie' ul s tteisin  H-> 24//.5          *xisting iradIAstriat inrerstiv,rts   ..  d  d.1Lv.5 tt*e ued aa's-s. I ,
rationalisinsg the incerntive structutt;                          J
-selected tariff reforms wete introdut- ir s f-Yu4 .ard :1 51, t-xs *ii
tion of major taritt rationalisatiorn pso'jrctm wdb.    ss-l*erd u.ntil
completion ot Industrial Efficiency Study ungler rA It (Cr 14;.:e VAl).
Signalling       US$  341.8    Expertb Advis-  -To assist EAC irn setting up Mansagesasent Irt`rmil-etiur., [valoA.t.0 ssi,.
System                  44.7    ory Cell (EAC)  Incentive Systems for Public Manufacturing EnterpriLe-_ (PMI..);
Rs   261.2
-Provided support for GOP's ettorts to imptve pektotso.irs te F11 :Il
Additional             lSb.l    National         -To review investment requirements in fertili'>er b.a-.stl' urs .OAs.ly/
Fertiliser        Rs  1427.0    Fertiliser       demand prospects upto 1992, assess adq.iacy of intisastiutt'ina .iaSio
Capacity                        Development      policy framewurk;
Ventre (NFDI)
-8ackground detail s tor potential isvebthaeast i.sn:.t.:. is
tertiliser provided in the study.
Industrial Sub-  $    115.4         MOPD         -To assis; GuOP in designing industrial policiv.. lot textile,
Sector Studies                                   engineering, marine and leather products;
tor Sixth Plan
-Provided inputs for preparation ot Sixtt Pldn.
g;dpacity         S    410N.2        HOPD        -To estimate capacity utilisations in aansutacturing, drndly..s*
litiilisst isrn                                  factors leading to low utilisaticns dnrd prepare reccomrdladtiiira-.
in Inldu5ty                                      for addressing major constraints;
--Psravides an understandiing at tactor t.  leadinru tu  unds.*
utilis.stion uf installed cad,ac:ity.



Cement sector    S    5u.0      State Cement    -To prepare rehabilitation packages for 6 existirng SCCP plants,.
Studies          DM  548.3      Corporation      evaluate feasibility of setting up Cement Research institute and
Rs  211.4     of Pakistan      facilities for bulk handling and ready mix concrete;
(SCCP)
-Consultants' reports used for Bank's Cement Industry
hodernisation Project (Ln 2884-PAM).
Cost Structure   Rs  270.u          MOPD         -To catalogue cost parameters for Ginning Industry, e.g. input/
ot Cotton Ginn-                                  output prices, technical coefficients, share ot major expendituwe
ing industry                                     categories in total cost;
-Major changes in 60P's cotton sector policies introduced trUsI
FY88. Improvewents in the etticiency of ginning operdtionis are
being supported by an ADB project.
Industrial       Rs  418.0      Government of   -To review fiscal/monetary incentives, pace ot industrialisation
Development                         NWFP         in NWFP, develop a policy traaeeiork tot long-ter- industrial
in NWFP                                          development, project briets for selected viable projects;
-No follow-up actioris taken as consultants' outputs w"e riot
tound to be satistactory.
Evaluation of    Rs  200.0      Lovernment of   -To review tunctions of SIDU, submit reccoerndatiorns regardiang
perfI ormance ot                    NWFP         areas where SIDB should concentrate;
S.arhad Industrial
tieve I opmen t                                  -No tollow-up actiors taken.
Board (SIDB)                                                                                                             4
Mineral sectur   S    13.b          MOPO         -To assist MOPV in preparing mineral sector strategy tor sixtt# Plan;1
Review tor       +Rs 135.O
Sixth Plats                                      -No tollow-up action was taken, sub-project was cancelled at. tdx
status ot consultant was not resolved.
Operation arid   Rs 2643.9 4OPD                  -To review past trends in the provision ot educatuojc  tatilitslv..
seLturs         Naintenante                                      evaluate guidelines for estimating finanLial requirerent-,. e-,tLixti-
Expenditure                                      unit costs ot individual services, suggest measures tur ismptoved
Requirements                                     cost effectiveness and recovery of capital and reLurrent LUStS
in Education                                     through user charges;
-No follow-up actions taken, study was ter-inated due
to unsatistactory pertormance of consultants.
Road User        Rs 1480.0          MUPD         -To examine eristing level and structure ot road user charges,
Chdrges                                          evaluate alternate road pricing policies and submit reMu m_Imr4d,St LU..,
for introducing road user charges linked to vehicle typer,. 1.l1V!S t'tt
-The sub-project provided inputs tor utOP/adrik dialogut' unr tfiaros.
port sector issues; overall policy reform program beinqv
developed under proposed Transport Sector Losn.
HcdaIth -iet totr    $  4:20.IJ     MOPD         --To ideftify overall scale arnd maior categories ot htalth exp.r.
I atrndt ir.il arod                              diture, review existing sourEes ut tinrdnce-r    develcap nctw (f-ittIAi.
1 'p.i-tu'll                                     for tinancing. identify mednar  tor impocovirig e tticirwicy fit
resource use;
*I ovided ineutts tor de-sign ot healtt. sct- tot pol icv-. tILt ttr.
"everth Plan.



Karachi Special  S   i67.3      Government of   -To provide support for preparation of selected ao.ronPnts - mass
Development       +     o.s         Sind         transit. traffiL .qir-ee;rii, *;cid wa*ste 661nagqement.. K;ltchi .Ab.,di-
Plan                                              etc. - of Karachi Special Development Plan;
-Consultants' reports used for preparation of Karachi Special
Development ProJect (Cr 1b52-1'AX).
Feasibility of   S    24.7          HOPD         -To evaluate feasibility of setting sip research Institutes in high
Setting up Five                                  technulogy areas, identify potential fields of research, training
Hlgh Technology                                  needs and prepare (preliminary) cost requirements;
Institutes
-No follow-up actions taken as UNDTCD could not hire
consultants to carry out required studies.
. .



- 19 -                      ANNEX
Subproject No:l
Title                    Flowi of Funt;ds Anai-sis
Implementing Agency      Ministry (ti ktllutiiiig & LIL-1opm'-nt oiueDJ
Date Initiated           July 6, 18'
Date Completed           (Ongoizi;)
Cost                     USS  6,6J18
+Pak Rs *6O,uU0
Objectives:  To  streagtileni the planniwng prucess, the subproject envisaged
that a cQnsultant %.ould be i;ired to update and project the existing flow
of funds oiatrices (for the 1976-80 period) upto 1985, develop (new)
dli:aggregated  flow  Gf  funds  matrices  for  the  economy,  and train GOP
officials in conitiniually updating these matrices.
Implementation: A foreign consultant was hired in two phases (1982-83 and
1985-86) to prepare the flow of funds accounts. The consultant provided
training to staff of MOPD and the State Bank of Pakistan in the
methodology and compilation of flow of funds accounts. In addition,
selected details requ.red for disaggregating private sector financial
accounts were compiled in 1983-84 through a separate study by a local
consulting firm.
Follow-Un:  The  State  Jank has prepared detailed sources and use of funds
tables covering eleven sectors for the FY76-85 period and plans to update
them on a regular basis.
Evaluation: Because of difficulties in data compilation, the completion of
the State Bank's report was delayed until mid-19P' As a result, these
flow of funds accounts have not been integrated in, the formal planning
process as yet.



-    -
Subproject No: 2
Title                    Balance of Payments Forecasting
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           April 1, 1983
Date Completed           (Ongoing)
Cost                     USS 5,135
+Pak Rs. 37,200
Obiectives: The subproject was designed to provide computer hardware and
software to MOPD for running a macroeconomic forecasting model on a mini
computer.
ImDlementation: The desk-top computer was acquired in April 1983. A
software consultant adapted the Bank's RMSM to run on this computer.
Follow-Up: The computer is being used for recording Balance of Pay-ents
(BOP) information, and for BOP forecasting, at the International Economics
Section of MOPD.
Evaluation:  The subproject contributed significantly towards improving the
timeliness and coverage of BOP statistics compiled at MOPD; in addition,
availability of the desk-top computer has strengthened MOPD's capacities
for forecasting trends in the BOP.



- 21 -
Subproject No: 3
Title                    Review  of  PC-I  Forms  and  Associated Processing
Procedures
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           February 1986
Date Completed           May 1987
Cost                     US$ 71,000
+Pak Rs 605,920
Ob.iectives:  A  number  of  international donor agencies had indicated that
the   format  and  approval  procedures  for  the  PC-I  Form  were  highly
complicated and were a major reason for delays in GOP's approval of
development   projects.   The  subproject  was  designed  to  review  these
procedures and develop recommendations for simplifying the information
contents and processing procedures of PC-I Forms.
Implementation: A joint venture of foreign and local consultants was hired
to carry out the study in early 1986. The consultants reviewed the
historical records of thirty-one development projects approved by GOP
during FYs84 and 85 to determine the major causes of delays in GOP's
approval process. Based on this review, a number of recommendations were
made regarding (i) the overall classification of development projects,
(ii) the sanctioning powers of various ministries, departments and other
tiers of Government, (iii) format, content and circulation list of PC-I
Forms and (iv) other issues regarding expenditure control, accountability
and transferrability of funds between various expenditure categories. The
final report also contained a revised PC-I proforma and a detailed
Instruction Manual for preparation of the new PC-I Forms.
Follow-UD: Although GBOP has enhanced the sanctioning powers of technical
ministries and provincial governments from July 1, 1988 (as was also
recommended   by  the  consultants),  no  other  recommendations  has  been
explicitly implemented.
Evaluation: The consultants completed the work with a reasonable time
span; the consultant carried out an extensive review of GOP's policies and
procedures regarding the approval of development projects, and submitted
recommendations for improvement in these procedures. While streamlining of
approval procedures is an ongoing process, there has been no explicit
follow up on the consultants' recommendations (with the exception of the
increase in sanctioning powers of the federal ministries and provincial
governments) as yet.



- 22 -
Subproject No:4
Title                    Impact  of  Out  and Return Migration On Employment
and Domestic Labour Markets
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           February 8, 1985
Date Completed           February 28, 1987
Cost                     USS 268,609
Ob.iectives:   Since   the  late  1970's,  with  the  increase  in  overseas
migration, the overall dependence of Pakistan's BOP on remittance inflows
has been increasing. However, a stagnation of oil prices and slowdown in
economic activity in the Gulf Region had led to a slowdown in the pace of
net overseas migration from Pakistan by the mid-1980s. This study was
designed to (i) review the prospects for additional migration of Pakistani
labour, (ii) analyse the effect of migration on domestic labour markets
and the effect of the slowdown in overseas migration on the employment
situation in future years, and (iii) develop estimates of the likely
inflows of workers' remittances during the Sixth and Seventh Plans.
ImDlementation: ILO/ARTEP was hired as consultants to carry out this study
during 1985. The study was delayed and the final report were not sibmitted
until  February  1987. The consultants prepared (i) estimates of the demand
for Pakistani labour in overseas markets, (ii) carried out two surveys (in
collaboration with Manpower Division) in April/May 1985 and October 19P5
to  estimate  the  extent of return migration, (iii) interviewed about 1300
return migrants to obtain information about the raabsorption of these
returnees into the domestic economy, (iv) analysed the impact of migration
during the 1970s and early 1980s on domestic labour markets through a
survey of 240 manufacturing and 40 construction firms, and (v) developed
recommendations for maintaining and enhencing Pakistan's share in the
Middle East labour market, and for the reabsorption of return migrants
into the Pakistan economy.
Follow-UD: The report has provided an estimate of likely inflow of
remittances   of  BOP  forecasting  purposes.  In  addition,  the  insights
provided by the study regarding skill shortages that resulted from the
earlier migration, and the issue of reabsorption of returning migrants
into the domestic economy, have added a sense of urgency to GOP's manpower
planning and employment generating programs. More recently (in late 1987)
a formal Manpower Commission was established, and was entrusted the task
of preparing a long-term employment/manpower strategy which would be
implemented during the Seventh Five Year Plan (FY89-93).
Evaluation: The subproject accomplished its objectives and provided a
useful input for the preparation of GOP's long-term employment and
manpower policies.



- 23 -
Subproject No:5
Title                   Prospects   for  Non-Traditional  Agricultural  and
Agro-Industrial Exports
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated          February 28, 1984
Date Completed          May 31, 1984
Cost                    USS 26210.06
Obiectives: The subproject was lesigned to review GOP's export strategy,
as  get  out  in  the  Sixth  Five  Year Plan, identify agro-industrial and
non-traditional  agricultural products th.  appear to have export potential
and   to   make   recommendations   to   address   major  constraints  e.g.
infrastructure,   financing,   marketing  and  technological  requirements,
institutional support, and other policy issues.
Implementation: A foreign consultant was hired to carry out these tasks in
February 1984. The consultant prepared a report in April 1984 which
outlined   major  constraints  to  increasing  exports  of  non-traditional
agricultural   and   agro-industrial   products,   formulated   a  sectoral
development plan for fruits and vegetables, and submitted proposals for
further studies and analysis.
Follow-Up: Selected components of the consultants' recommendations have
been adopted periodically by GOP as part of its export expansion and
diversification plans.
Evaluation: The subproject achieved its objectives successfully.



- 24 -
Sub Project No:6
Title                    Export  Development  Loan - Consultants for Central
Board of Revenue (CBR)
Implementing Agency      Central Board of Revenue
Date Initiated           December 1986
Date Completed           September 1987
Cost                     USS 55,860
+ Pak Rs 576, 325
Obiectives: Under the Export Development Loan (Ln 2701-PAK) consultants
were to be provided to CBR for reviewing the operations of various export
incentive schemes, e.g. standard rebates, bonded manufacturing warehousing
(BMW)   and   temporary   importation   schemes   (TIS),   and  to  develop
recommendations   for   improving  the  operations  of  these  schemes.  In
particular, procedures were to be developed for lifting controls at the
manufacturing level under BMW and replacing these by records maintained at
a central warehouse control office at the Customs Department; a mechanism
for   regularly   reviewing/updating   standard  rebate  rates  was  to  be
developed.
ImDlementation: One foreign and two local consultants were hired to carry
out these tasks. The consultants reports, which were submitted to CBR in
September 1987, reviewed the issues involved in removing direct customs
control from manufacturing warehouse premises. Draft notifications and
other control procedures for the implementation of the new scheme were
prepared. The consultants also submitted recommendations regarding the
composition and staffing of a permanent unit in CBR that would regularly
revise/update the standard rebate rates.
Follow-UD:   A   number   of   notifications   based  on  the  consultants'
recommendations have been issued; specifically, Customs staff were removed
by June 1988 from the premises of all warehouses producing only export
goods. Standard rebate rates for major export items have been updated, and
a permanent unit is being set up for updating these rates on a continuous
basis.
Evaluation:   The  subproject  accomplished  its  objectives  of  providing
support for policy reforms regarding export incentives that had been
agreed under the Export Development Loan.



- 25 -
Sub Project No:7
Title                    Advisors for Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS)
Implementing Agency      Federal Bureau of Statistics
Date Initiated           December 31, 1986
Date Completed           June 30, 1987
Cost                     US S 59,760
Objectives:   The   subproject   was   to  provide  assistance  to  FBS  in
strengthening   its   data   collection   procedures  and  report  formats,
particularly for large-scale manufacturing surveys. This was expected to
expedite the reporting of survey results by FBS, thereby contributing
towards improving the data base for the preparation of the Seventh Five
Year Plan.
Implementation: Two foreign consultants were hired during the first half
of 1987 for a period of six month each. The consultants' reports provide
FBS with a framework to address the problem of non-response in industrial
surveys (which was a major cause of delays in the compilation and
reporting of survey results), and include proposals for improving the
format and strenghtening the analysis of survey data results.
Follow-Up: FBS is engaged in carrying out manufacturing sector surveys on
an annual basis; the consultants reports have assisted in reducing the lag
between the end of a fiscal year and the release of survey results for
that year from around 42 months in 1983-86 to about 30 months by mid-1988.
This lag is expected to be reduced to about 24 months by the end of FY89.
Evaluation: The subproject achieved its objectives of advising FBS on the
steps that could be taken to expedite the release of surveys results, and
improving their format and presentation.



- 26 -
Subproject No:8
Title                    Mobilisation  of External Private Capital Resources
for Development
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning & Development
Date Initiated           July 27, 1984
Date Completed           December 31, 1984
Cost                      253,000
ObJectives: The subproject was designed assist GOP in preparing strategies
for mobilising financial resources from international private capital
markets for specific development projects included in the Sixth Five Year
Plan. Consultants were to be hired to (a) assess the sectors, agencies and
projects that were most appropriate for such financing; (b) outline the
means and sources for obtaining increased commercial financing for the
selected    projects/sectors;    (c)   develop   criteria   for   selecting
international commercial banks that could be approached; and (d) determine
the debt servicing implications of increased borrowing from international
(private) capital markets.
Implementation: An international consulting firm was hired under a UNDP
project (with the World Bank as Executing Agency) to carry out this
study.'/ The consultants prepared a report which assessed Pakistan's
overall debt servicing capacity and its credit rating in international
loan markets, and outlined the major features of a strategy to increase
commercial borrowings for selected development projects. In addition the
consultants developed project profiles on four major development projects
(Lakhra Coal, the Hydrocracker refinery, Civil Aviation, and the Telecom
project) that were expected to be favourably received in international
capital markets. The consultants' report was discussed with GOP in
mid-1985
Follow-Up: While the consultants' work was found to be satisfactory, there
was no explicit follow-up on the consultants' recommendations as the BOP
position deteriorated markedly in FY85 - the current account deficit rose
to about 5X of GDP and there was a drawdown of over US$1 billion in
foreign exchange reserves. Given these adverse circumstances, and also
because the overall debt service ratio had been rising during the mid
1980s, increasing Pakistan's exposure to international capital markets was
not felt to be desirable at that time.
Evaluation: The major objective of this sub-project, viz. designing a
strategy   for   increased   mobilisation   of   financial  resources  from
international capital markets, was achieved. However, given the adverse
BOP position, there was no follow-up of the consultants' recommendations.
__________
I/ As UNDP resources amounting to about US$ 500,000 were used for two
subprojects (the present one and subproject No:18 - Long Item Least Cost
Energy Development Plan) it was agreed between GOP, UNDP and the Bank
that, in return, TA funds amounting to about USS 750,000 would be provided
to UNDP, which would be used by UNDP for enhancing its contribution
towards the Government's Vocational Training Project by a similar amount.



- 27 -
Subproject No:9
Title                    Computer Equipment for Economic Advisors Wing (EAW)
Implementing Agency      Economic Advisor Wing, Ministry of Finance
Date Initiated           November 13, 1984
Date Completed           June 30, 1985
Cost                     USS 29,391.72
+Pak Rs 151,410
Objectives:  EAW    prepares  a number of (annual and monthly) economic reports and
publications.  The  sub-project  was  designed  to  assist EAW in strengthening its
economic  analysis  and  reporting  functions  by  providing  computer hardware and
software for computerisation of the economic data base.
Implementation:  Two  desk-top(pc)  computers were acquired by EAW In mid-1985; the
statistical  data  base  for  the  Economic  Survey  and other EAW publications was
computerised  in  late 1985. Apart from improving the accuracy and timelines of the
Statistical Annex of the Survey, this allowed EAW to reintroduce its Monthly
Economic Review (which had been discontinued for a number of years) which reports
statistics  regarding  a  number of major economic variables within six weeks after
the end of each month.
Follow-UP: Availability of computers allows EAW to update its economic data base
on a regular basis. Preparation of policy summaries on major economic issues for
consideration by the Economic Coordination Committee of the Cabinet (ECC) has also
been   expedited.   In   addition,   EAW   is  expanding  its  research  activities
(econometric model building, monitoring of exchange rate movements etc), which
allows it to fulfill its economic advisory role more effectively.
Evaluation: The subproject successfully achieved its objective of strengthening
the      economic       analysis     and      reporting      functions     of      EAW.



- 23 -
Subproject No:10
Tile                      Special Consortium Studies.
Implenenting Agency       MinistrY of Planning and Development
Date Initiated            July 1, 1983
Date Completed            September 1, 1985.
Cost                      Pak Rs 6,012,129
Objectives: This subproject was designed to prepare prefeasibility studies
for selected industrial and other development projects in less developed
areas, which were to be distributed to donors at the special consortium
session in December 1983.
Implemgntation: Local consultants (NESPAK and NDFC) were hired to prepare
the prefeasibility studies regarding three industriel1/mining projects and
a number of infrastructure projects in less developed regions (Baluchistan
and NWFP).
FOllOW-UR: The project documents were circulated at the December 1983
I ~~Consortium meeting; a number of projects are being financed by bilateral
donor countries/agencies.
Evlato:           The      studies      were      competed        satisfactrily.



- 29 -
Subproject No:11
Title                    Integrated  Development  of  Horticulture  in  NWFP
for Exports.
Implementing Agency     Government of NWFP.
Date Initiated           June 28, 1984
Date Completed           January 31,1986.
Cost                     Pak Rs 600,000
Obiectives: The study was designed to identify regions in NWFP that were
suitable for horticulture production; review existing conditions and
constraints (picking, grading, packing, storing and shipping standards) to
the production and marketing of high quality fruits and vegetables; and
develop   recommendations   for   improvement   in  the  marketing  system,
particularly for exports to the Gulf States.
Imlementation: A local consulting firm was hired to carry out the study.
The consultants compiled information on production, marketing and storage
facilities in NWFP, e.g. volume/value of production, cost of production,
marketing expenses, availability of storage facilities etc. for about ten
horticulture products. In addition, the consultants visited six Gulf
countries and compiled information on production, imports and prices of
horticulture products, marketing condition, and certification, packaging
and grading standards for the import of fruits and vegetables into thcse
countries.   Specific   recommendatiot  listing  improvements  in  grading,
packaging and storage facilities that were felt to be necessary and could
be adopted by the Government to increase exports of horticultural products
from NWFP to the Gulf countries were also presented in the consultants'
report.
Follow-UpD:    -
Evalutation:    The study was sponsord by the Government of NWFP as part of
its  ongoing  development  activites.  While  the  consultant's  report was
completed  in a reasonable time span and could have formed the basis for an
action program for the expansion of horticulture exports, no explicit
policy       actions        appear       to        have      been       taken.



- 30 -
Subproject No:12
Title                    Valley   Development   of   Federally  Administered
Tribdl Areas (FATA)
Implementing Agency      Government of NWFP
Date Initiated           August 11, 1984
Date Completed           May 16, 1987
Cost                     Pak Rs 492,000
Objectives: The subproject was designed to i) identify various valleys in
FATA and their resource base including infrastructure facilities, ii)
identify constraints to the development of these areas, and iii) submit
recommendations regarding infrastructure requirements and the development
of growth points in these valleys.
ILDlementation: A local consulting firm was hired to carry out the study.
The consultants compiled information on existing resources in these
regions from secondary sources and carried out a brief survey to analyse
the overall socioeconomic and cultural conditions of the area. Based on
this review, a number of recommez.dations regarding improvement in physical
and social infrastructure and development of selected areas as growth
points were presented.
*  f lloWD: -
Evaluation:   The   subproject  accomplished  its  objectives.  Development
activities e.g. construction of roads, provision of electricity and other
infrastructure facilities etc are an ongoing process, and various projects
are      implemented      under     the      Annual     Development      Plan.



- 31 -
Subproject No:13
Title                    Strengthing of Agriculture Price Commission(APCOM)
Implementing Agency      Agriculture Prices Commission,  Ministry of Food
and Agriculture.
Date Initiated
Date Completed           (Ongoing)
Cost                     US$ 84,070
+Pak Rs 1,362,866
Obiectives:  To  assist  APCOM  in  the  development  of  a methodology for
preparing price policy recommendations for major crops on a timely basis,
this   subproject  was  to  provide  consultants,  equipment  and  overseas
training for APCOM's staff. Specific areas included assistance in (i)
designing systems for the collection of farm-level data; (ii) collecting
information on agricultural prices, production, etc from foreign sources;
and (iii) developing methodologies for measuring the impact of price
recommendation on consumers' and farmers' real incomes.
Imalementation: During 1982-87, three manmonthe of foreign consultants,
about 50 manmonths of local consultants and finances for the purchase of
equipment were provided. In addition, eight staff members of APCOM were
provided finances for both short-term specialized courses (3-4 months
each) in agricultural price policy analysis and long term training leading
to a Masters degree in Agricultural Economics.
Follow-Up:  Preparation  of  price  policy  recommendations  by APCOM is an
ongoing exercise.
Evaluation:   Assistance   provided   under   the  project  has  helped  in
strengthing APCOM's abilities to prepare policy recomxendations in a
systematic manner.



- 32 -
Subproject No:14
Title                    Agricultgure Sector Loan(ASL) Preparation.
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Agriculture.
Date Initiated           March 6, 1985
Date Completed           August 5, 1985
Cost                     Pak Rs  175,000
Ob.ietives: This subproject was designed to assist the Ministry of Food
and Agriculture in the preparation of background documents (review report,
draft Statement of Development Policies, etc.) in connection with the
initial (FY85) appraisal of the Agriculture Sector Loan.
Imolementation:   ASL   was  initally  appraised  in  FY85;  however  final
agreement on the matrix of policy actions could not be reached until about
June 1987 and ASL was thus reappraised in July 1987. A local consultant
was hired during the initial appraisal to assist the Ministry in the
prepartion of a set of policy action that could be discussed with the
Banks' appraisal 3ission.
Follow-uo: As ASL had to be reappraised in July 1987 and agreement reached
on the set of policy actions that was to be supported by ASL, there was no
explicit follow-up on the consultant's reports.
Evaluation:      The       subproject       achieved       its     objectives.



- 33 -
Subproject No:15
Title                    Constraints Facing Small Farmers.
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Food and Agriculture
Date Initiated           November 14, 1984
Date Completed           June 30, 1987
Cost                     Pak Rs  1,080,000
Objectives: The study was designed to assess the income and productivity
status of small farmers in Pakistan, specifically their participation on
overall agriculture development. A nationwide survey covering 1500 small
farmers was to be carried to collect information on (i) their access to
essential input, e.g. water, fertilizer, improved seeds, credit and
agricultural machinery, (ii) knowledge of improved agricultural practices,
and   (iii)   availability   of  transport,  storage  and  other  marketing
facilities. Recommendations for reforms were to be prepared.
Implementation: Three local research institution were hired to carry out
the study in Punjab, NWFP, and Sind and Baluchistan respectively. While
the study was originally expected to provide recomnendations regarding
improvements in production incentives for small farmers which could be
incorporated   in   the   Agriculture   Sector  Loan  Policy  package,  the
consultants' work was substantially delayed and the final report was not
submitted until mid-1987.
Follow-Up: A high powered National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) was
set up in mid-1986 to develop a long term strategy for the agriculture
sector. The results of this subproject, which were available by the time
the final reports of NCA was being prepared, were extensively reviewed and
utilized by NCA in its recommendations regarding improvements in the
incentive system for small farmers.
Evaluation: Although the subproject was completed with a delay of over
twelve months, the consultants reports were found to be satisfactory and
provided a useful input in the development of GOP's long term agriculture
strategy.



- 34 -
Subproject No:16
Title                    Advisor for Agriculture for Sixth Five Year Plan
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           April 20, 1983
Date Completed           June 3, 1983
Cost                     US$ 20,999
Obiectives:  The  subproject was designed to assist MOPD in (i) preparation
of   a   detailed   operational  plan  for  the  agriculture  sector,  (ii)
examination of the implementation methodology of projects to be included
in the Sixth Five Year Plan, and (iii) analysis of the Plan targets and
strategy in the light of experience of other countries.
Implementation: A foreign consultant was hired on a short term assignment
to carry out the abovementioned tasks.
Follow-Up: The consultant's work was used as an input in the preparation
of the agriculture sector strategy for the Sixth Plan.
Evaluation:   The   subproject   achieved   its   objective   successfully.



- 35 -
Subproject No:17
Title                    Petroleum Products Infrastructure Study
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           December 16, 1985
Date Completed           September 19, 1986
Cost                      330,000
Ob.iectives: The study was to review the regional consumption pattern of
major petroleum products in Pakistan, project the growth in demand for
each product upto the year 2000, review the infrastructure for production,
transport and storage of petroleum products with a view to identifying the
main constraints and bottlenecks, and establish at least cost plan for (i)
expansion and/or upgrading of existing refining capacity (or construction
of additional refining capacity), (ii) expansion, as required, of port
handling, inland transport and storage facilities, and (iii) analysis of
the comparative technical, economic and financial merits of the various
refining, cracking and processing project under the consideration of GOP.
jmRIementation: A joint venture of foreign consultants was hired to carry
out the study. The consultants prepared three scenarios for the demand for
petroleum products, reviewed existing refinery capacity, and evaluated a
number of proposals for additional capacity, and provided recommendations
for the expansion of oil handling facility at Karachi port and other
infrastructure   facilities  which  would  be  necessary  for  meeting  the
projected demand for individual products reliably and at least cost.
Follow-Up: The study had been agreed as part of the policy reform and
development program for the Energy Sector which is being supported by the
Banks' Energy Sector Loan (Ln 2552-PAK) which was approved by the Board on
May 6, 1985.
Evaluation: The subproject achieved its objectives of reviewing the
infrastructure   for   the   supply/delivery   of  petroleum  products  and
developing recommendations for improvements in those facilities.



- 36 -
Subproject No:18
Title                    Long Term Least-Cost Energy Development Plan
Implementing Agency      Water & Power Development Authority(WAPDA)
Date Initiated           April 17, 1985
Date Completed           November, 1987
Cost                     USS 225,000
Objectives:   The   subproject   was   designed  to  (i)  assist  WAPDA  in
implementing  the  Wien  Automatic  System  Planning    (WASP-III) computer
program to formulate the long-term investment plan for power generation;
(ii) simulate the effects on the investment plan of changes in fuel
prices, efficiency of plants, load forecasts etc; (iii) provide training
to WAPDA staff in the use of WASP-III program by installing it on WAPDA's
computer at Lahore, and (iv) estimate the long run marginal cost of power
supply by using the WASP-III program.
ImDlementation:   An   international   consulting  firm,  Argonne  National
Laboratory (ANL), was engaged by the Bank under a UNDP project to carry
out this assignment in April 1985. A long term program for the development
of generation facilities was formulated in 1985, and was updated in
December   1986   incorporating  more  recent  developments  in  the  power
subsector. The WASP III model was installed on WAPDA's computer and WAPDA
staff were trained to run the model in 1986. The final draft report titled
"Power System Planning Study for Pakistan" was submitted in November 1987.
Follow-UD: WAPDA is implementing an investment program for power
generation   from  hydel  and  thermal  sources  based  on  the  long  term
least-cost   development  plan  developed  by  the  consultants.  Two  Bank
assisted projects (WAPDA VI, Ln 2698-PAK, and WAPDA VII, Ln 2792-PAK),
which were approved in May 1986 and April 1987 respectively, are also part
of this investment program.
Evaluation:   The   subproject   successfully  achieved  its  objective  of
assisting WAPDA in developing a long run least-cost investment plan for
the                             power                              sub-sector.



- 37 -
Subproject No:19
Title                    Reservoir Estimate for Mari Gas Field
Implementing Agency     Fauji Foundation
Date Initiated          January 17, 1985
Date Completed           May 21, 1985
Cost                     USS 150,000
ObJectives: Under the Bank's Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Project (Ln
2324-PAK), GOP was required to provide an updated estimate of gas reserves
at   Mari  Gas  field.  That  estimate  would  help  to  determine  whether
additional gas was available for a number of uses i.e. feedstock for
fertilizer, power generation and residential/commercial use. An assurance
that increased gas would be made available to Sui Northern Gas Pipelines
Ltd (SNGPL) was essential for the effective implementation of the SNGPL-V
project.  This  subproject  was  designed  to  review  the conclusion of an
earlier reservior study and to investigate the technical feasibility of
producing  an  additional 187 MMCFD of gas per day from Mari Gas field with
a load factor of 0.8 over a 20 year period.
Implementation:  A  foreign  consulting  firm  was  hire!d to carry out this
study   in   January  1985.  The  consultants  concluded  that  a  constant
production  rate  of  350  MMCFD (with a peak demand of 387 MMCFD) could be
maintained  for  fifteen  years,  whereas a constant production rate of 300
MMCFD could be sustained for at least twenty years.
Follow-UD:  The  subproject was required to fulfil one of the conditions of
effectiveness   for   the  Bank's  SNGPL-V  project.  However,  the  review
conducted under this subproject was superceeded by subsequent events, as
GOP decided to allocate the required additional gas to SNGPL from the Sui
Gas field, by reducing the amount of gas that would be utilised for power
generation.
Evaluation: The subproject accomplished its objective within the time
prescribed and assisted GOP in determining priorities regarding alternate
uses                    of                     natural                    gas.



- 39 -
Subproject No:20
Title                    Reservoir Studies for Identified Gas Fields.
Implementing Agency      Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC)
Date Initiated           July 8, 1985
Date Completed           April 1986.
Cost                     USS 325,478
Ob.iectives: A gas supply-demand study in 1981 indicated that unless gas
production was increased, a supply gap of upto 40X of total demand could
open up by the mid-1980s, leading to increased load shedding during peak
demand periods. That study also confirmed the existence of substantial
economically   recoverable   reserves   of  gas  in  Pakistan.  Under  this
subproject,  studies were to financed to estimate the extent of recoverable
gas reserves at the Tando Alam and Dakhni fields.
Implementation:  A  foreign  consulting firm was hired to carry out the two
reservoir studies. Tn October 19e5, it was agreed between OGDC and the
Bank that the scope of the Tando Alam study should be expanded to included
(i) data from two additional exploratory wells and (ii) study and design
of a water injection system. The studies, after incorporating these
additional tasks, were completed in April 1986.
Follow-Up: The studies have provided an input into GOP's ongoing gas
exploration/development programs.
Evaluation:   The   subproject   achieved   its  objectives  as  envisaged.



- 39 -
Subproject No:21
Title                    Feasibility  studies  for  setting  up of 100 small
Hydel Stations in NWFP.
Implementing Agency      Government of NWFP
Date Initiated           September 24, 1984.
Date Completed           July 2, 1987.
Cost                     Pak Rs 2,794,000
ObJectives: The Government of NWFP had requested a feasibility study for
setting up of small hydel stations in selected backward region of the
province including Chitral, Dir, Swat, Kohistan, Mansehra, Abbotabad and
Mardan districts. The study was designed to {i) select about 100 sites and
evaluate their cost effectiveness, (ii) recommend appropriate technologies
for generation (iii) develop proposals for power distribution and the
maintenance of generation/distribution systems.
Implementation: A local consulting firm was hired to carry out the study.
While the study was originally expected to completed in nine months, the
consultants' work was delayed due to (i) logistic difficulties of
accessing sites located in remote areas during winter months and (ii) the
availability  of  finances  for  a similar project from a bilateral source,
which led to some indecision on the part of Government of NWFP regarding
which  project  to support. These iss'ies were resolved at the highest level
and it was decided that work on 100 sites identified by consultants under
the  TA  financed  subproject would  not be duplicated elsewhere. Following
these  assurances,  the  consultants  resumed  their work and completed the
subproject in early 1987.
Follow-up: The study has identified 100 sites in remote areas where small
hydel stations could be set up. The information is expected to be used in
NWFP's ongoing rural electrification programs.
Evaluation: The subproject was completed with x delay of about 18 months.
However   the   consultants'   report   was   found   to  be  satisfactory.



- 40 -
Subproject No:22
Title                    Effective Protection Study, Phases 1+11
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           October 22, 1981
Date Completed           August 1, 1984
CosL                     USS 292,838
+Pak Rs 2,477,500
Objectives:  The  study  was  to  analyse  the structure, effectiveness and
appropriateness  of the existing set of industrial incentives. Estimates of
effective protection derived through this study were expected to form the
basis for actions by GOP to rationalise and improve the structure of
industrial incentives.
Implementation: Pakistan Institute of Development Economica was engaged to
carry out the study with the assistance of foreign consultants. Funded
initially   under  a  Project  Preparation  Facility,  (PPF  187-PAK)  this
sub-project was transferred to the TA project once TA-I was declared
effective. A survey covering 750 firms in 90 industrial groups was carried
out and information required for the calculation on Noeinal/Effective
Rates of Protection (NPRs and EPRs) and Domestic Resource Costs (DRCs) was
compiled. While the study results provided useful insight into the level
of   protection   afforded  (in  1980/81)  by  existing  tariff  and  other
restrictions,   the  study  did  not  include  a  detailed  program  and/or
timetable for tariff reform. This was a major omission, as one of the main
objectives of the subproject was to assist GOP in preparing an action plan
to rationalise the incentive structure.
Follow-Up: The study results were used by GOP to initiate selected tariff
reforms in FY84 and 85. However, as the study contained only general
recommendations regarding the directions of tariff reform, the preparation
of a comprehensive tariff rationalization program was deferred. A major
study   focussing   on   efficiency   issues  in  textiles,  chemicals  and
engineering subsectors was initiated under the Second Technical Assistance
Project (Cr 1480-PAK); consultants working on that subproject are expected
to submit concrete recommendations regarding trade policy reform.
Evaluation: The subproject achieved only part of its objectives. While
useful   insight  was  provided  on  the  extent  of  protection  (and  its
distribution across major industry groups), it was not possible to
initiate comprehensive reforms of the trade regime as the section of the
study that listed recommendations regarding tariff reform was found to be
inadequate.



- 41 -
Subproject No:23
Title                   Public Enterprises Signalling System
Implementing Agency     Experts    Advisory   Cell   (EAC),   Ministry   of
Production
Date Initiated          April 9, 1981
Date Completed          Ongoilig
Cost                    USS 341,804
 44,669
+Pak Rs 261,201
Objectives: The subproject was designed to develop a set of objective
performance criteria which were to used in evaluating the performance of
public enterprises (PE) under the Ministry of Production. The Signalling
System was to consist of (i) a management information systes to measure PE
performance, (ii) a performance evaluation system to translate goals into
explicit (quantifiable) targets, and (iii) a performance incentive system
for managers which links beniefits with the achievements of specified
targets.
Imolementation: The project was initiated under a Project Preparation
Facility, (PPF 182-PAK) and subsequently transferred to the Technical
Assistance Project. Two consulting firms (foreign and local) were hired
under a joint venture agreement to develop and adapt the Public Enterprise
Performance Information System (PEPIS) program for use on the computer
which was to be acquired by EAC. The project also provided for the
purchase of computer hardware and the necessary training of EAC staff. The
installation of hardware and development of software were completed by
1983 and the system made operational on a trial basis for five enterprises
in FY84. Subsequently, the system was extended to all public enterprise by
FY88.
Follow-UD: Implementation of the system is an ongoing exercise.
Evaluation: The consultants' work was appreciated. It has reinforced GOP's
efforts   to  improve  the  efficiency  of  PEs.  Profitability  and  other
performance   indicator  have  shown  some  improvement  in  recent  years.



- 42 -
Subproject No:24
Title                    Additional Fertilizer Capacity in Pakistan
Implementing Agency      National Fertilizer Development Centre,
Ministry of Planning and Development.
Date Initiated           July 31, 1983
Date Completed           December 31, 1984.
Cost                      185,050
+Pak Rs 1,427,000
Obiectives:  As  part  of  GOP's review of investment requirements in major
industrial subsectors, the study was to identify the extent of investment
required in the fertilizer subsector (based on supply and demand prospects
upto the year 1992), assess the adequacy of the existing policies to
promote such investment, and identify the likely need for infrastructure,
raw materials and financing for these investments.
ImDlementation: The study, by a joint venture between foreign and local
consultants, was expected to be completed by early 1984. However the
consultants were not able to finalize their report until end 1984 as
additional time was required to evaluate the consultants' draft reports
and provide GOP and Bank comments. Also the start of the study was delayed
by about four weeks because of payment difficulties.
Follow-UD: GOP sanctioned the setting up of three projects for the
production of DAP fertilizer in 1984-85. This study provided an important
input in GOP's decision making. However, because of weak prices of
phosphatic fertilizers, both in the domestic and international markets,
none of the sanctioned projects has been executed by their sponsors.
Evaluation: This subproject fulfilled its principal objectives and the
consultants' final reports were appreciated by GOP officials and the Bank.
The project briefs prepared by consultants provide a ready reference for
investment   proposals   that   may  be  undertaken  in  the  near  future.



- 43 -
Subproject No:25
Title                    Industrial   Subsector   Studies   for  Sixth  Plan
Preparation
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated
Date Completed           August 16, 1983
Cost                     USS 115,352
Ob.iectives:  The  main  objective of this subproject was to help GOP design
its   industrial   policy   for  selected  major  sub-sectors  -  textiles,
engineering, marine and leather products for the Sixth Plan.
Implementation:  The  World  Bank,  at  the  request of MOPD, hired foreign
consultants who prepared the subsector reports in collaboration with Bank
staff. These reports reviewed industrial performance in each sub-sector
and highlighted major policy issues. Programs for policy reform and
estimates   of   investment  requirements  in  each  sub-sector  were  also
developed. These reports were discussed with GOP officials in early 1983,
and were provided to the Working Groups set up by GOP for developing the
sub-sector strategy and policy framework for the Sixth Plan.
Follow-Up:  The reports were used as inputs in the preparation of the Sixth
Five Year Plan.
Evaluation:  The  subproject met its objective of providing support for the
Sixth                    Five                    Year                    Plan.



- 44 -
Subproject No:26
Title                    Capacity Utilization in Manufacturing Industry
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           August 5, 1986
Date Completed           November 11, 1987
Cost                     USS 400,204
ObJectives: The subproject was designed to estimate the level of Capacity
Utilization   in  different  manufacturing  industries,  determine  factors
(technical and economic) contributing towards the low utilization of
installed capacity, and make appropriate policy recommendations for
improvement.
Implementation:  A joint venture of foreign and local consultants was hired
to carry out the study. The consultants compiled information on various
indicators  of  capacityr  utilization  through  a  survey  of  450 existing
manufacturing firms. During the course of the study, the scope of work was
expanded   to  collect  information  and  carry  out  interviews  with  the
managers/owners of 40-50 closed units. The study was completed with a
delay of three months.
Follow-UP:   -
Evaluation: The study has provided an understanding of the factors
responsible   of  underutilization  of  capacity  in  manufacturing  units.



- 45 -
Subproject No:27
Title                    Cement Sector Studies.
Implementing Agency      State Cement Corporation (SCCP)
Ministry of Production.
Date Initiated           June 20, 1985
Date Completed           December 23, 1986.
Cost                     USS  50,000
+DM 548,250
+Pak Rs 211,411
Ob.iectives: A part of GOP's investment requirements in major industrial
subsectors,   three   studies  were  to  be  carried  out  to  (i)  prepare
rehabiliatation programs for six of SCCP's existing plants, (ii) evaluate
the feasibility of setting up of a Cement Research Institute, and (iii)
evaluate the feasibility of setting up facilities for cement bulk handling
and ready mix concrete. These reports were to provide input into a World
Bank assisted Cement Industry Modernization Project.
Implementation: The three studies were completed satisfactorily by foreign
and local consultants with minor delays.
Foll2w-U:   The   consultants'   reports  were  used  as  inputs  for  the
preparation of the World Bank assisted Cement Industry Modernization
Project (Ln 2884-PAK), which was approved by the Board on November 17,
1987.
Evaluation: The subproject achieved its objectives, i.e. preparation of
the   Cement   Industry   Modernization   Project,  with  marginal  delays.



- 46 -
Subproject No:28
Title                    Cost Structure of Cotton Ginning Industry.
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           January 7, 1984
Date Completed           June 15, 1987
Cost                     Pak Rs 270,OCO
Ob.iectives: The subproject was designed to obtain information on the cost
structure of the Cotton Ginning industry, focussing specifically in input
and output prices, technical coefficients and the share in total cost of
major expenditure categories. These details were required as inputs into
GOP's annual Cotton policy.
ImDlementation: A local firm was hired in early 1984 to carr. out the
study. A survey of 100 dinning units (40 in Sind and 60 in Punjab) was to
be carried out to compile information the cost structure of the industry
during 1983/84. However because of a severe shortfall in the 1983/84
cotton crop, and the closure of a large number of ginning factories during
that year, it was felt that 1983/84 was not a representative year for
which cost data should be obtained. It was therefore decided that the
period of the study should be extended and the survey be carried out
during 1984/85.
Follow-Ug: The study reports was sent to relevant Ministries and agencies
for their use.
Evaluation: While the study was designed as an input into GOP's annual
cotton policies, those policies have undergone significant changes in
recent years. Specifically from FY88, limited private participation in the
export of cotton has also been allowed. Further GOP's efforts to improve
the efficiency of the cotton ginning industry are being supported through
an   ADB    project.  The  recommendation  of  the  study  have  thus  been
superceeded             by           more            recent            events.



- 47 -
Subproject No:29
Title                    Industrial Development in NWFP
Implementing Agency      Government of NWFP
Date Initiated           December 27, 1984
Date Completed           December 29, 1987
Cost                     Pak Rs 418,000
Ob.iectives: The study was designed to i) review the historical pace and
pattern of industrialization in NWFP, ii) evaluate the incentives, fiscal
and monetary, offered by GOP, iii) identify constraints to growth of
industry in NWFP, iv) prepare a policy framework for long term development
of selected industries in the province, and v) in the context of this
proposed   policy  framework,  prepare  project  briefs  for  a  number  of
commercially viable projects that could be set up in NWFP.
Implementation: The study originated from a request by the Government of
NWFP for financing feasibility studies for a number of specific industrial
projects under the TA Credit. As the TA credit was directed primarily
towards providing support for GOP's structural and policy reform program,
GOP and the Bank agreed to enhance the scope of work to include a review
of the policy framework and recommendations for improving the incentive
structure, in addition to the required feasibilities. A local consulting
firm  was hired to carry out these tasks. The steering comittee, set up to
supervise the consultants, did not approve the quality of the consultants
work. Following protracted exchanges between GOP and the consultants, the
Bank   was   requested   to   provide  an  independent  assessment  of  the
consultants' work. The Bank also expressed its dissatisfaction with the
quality of work and indicated that the final report would have to be
substantially improved before it could be considered acceptable. Following
these comments, a number of revisions were make in the final report. While
the Bank was still dissatisfied with the analysis of the policy framework,
given the closing date for the TA Credit, it was decided to accept the
report. Given the weaknesses in the consultants' final report, GOP imposed
a penalty of 15X of the contract amount.
Follow-Up:   -
Evaluation: The subproject was unsuccessful in meeting its objectives -
due       to       unsatisfactory       performance       of      consultants.



- 48 -
Subproject No:30
Title                    Evaluation   of  Past  PeLf UL-maiice  Qf fLie  Saiilad
Industrial Development Board (SIDB)
Implementing Agency      Government of NWFP
Date Initiated           June 28, 1984
Date Completed           November 10, 1986
Cost                     Pak Rs 200,000
Ob.iectives: The subproject was designed to (i) identify existing function
of SIDB and assess the appropriateness of these functions relative to
available resources, (ii) evaluate past performance and constraints on
SIDB in carrying out these functions, and (iii) submit recommendations
regarding specific areas where SIDB should concentrate.
ImDlementation: A local consulting firm was hired to carry out the study.
Follow-L_D:   -
Evaluation: The consultant carried out a detailed analysis of SIDB's past
performance  and  submitted  specific  recommendations for its improvement.



- 49 -
Subproject No:31
Title                    Mineral Sector Review for Sixth Five Year Plan
Implementating Agency   Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Iiaitiated          January 1983
Date Completed
Cost                     USS 13,612
+Pak Rs 185,000
Obiectives: The subproject was designed to provide an input for the
Mineral Sector development program for the Sixth Plan.
Implementation: A foreign consultant was proposed to be hired to carry out
this assignment. To assist the foreign consultant, a local firm was hired
to compile an inventory of mining equipment that was available, and in
use, in Pakistan at that time. While the consultant visited Pakistan for
about four weeks in January-February 1983 to review the background
information and finalize his contract, no agreement could be reached as
the tax status of the consultant could not be resolved. The subproject was
therefore dropped.
Follow-Up:
Evaluation:           The          subproject          was          cancelled.



- 50 -
Suibproject No:32
Title                    Operation  and Maintenance Expenditure Requirements
in the Education Sector.
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           July 1, 1985
Date Completed            -
Cost                     Pak Rs 2,643,938
Ob.iectives: The subproject was designed to review past performanice in the
education   sector   specifically   regarding   i)   physical  targets  and
achievements in the provision of education facilities at various levels,
ii) project these trends into the Seventh Plan period, iii) evaluate
existing guidelines for measuring financial requirements and estimate the
unit costs of each type of service, iv) suggest measure for improvement
i.e. cost effectiveness, in O&M arrangements, and v) evaluate the current
situation regarding recurrent and capital cost recovery, review alternate
sources of financing and submit proposals for enhanced recovery of
recurrent and capital costs through user changes.
ImDlementation: A joint venture of two local consulting firms was hired to
carry out the study. The start up of the consultant's survey was initially
delayed because of deficiencies in the consultants' proposed questionaire.
While these were resolved by January 1986 (about six months after signing
of the contract), subsequently, doubts regarding the authenticity of the
consultants' data collection efforts began to emerge. Independent field
checks conducted by GOP and the Bank failed to remove these doubts. To
avoid the possibility of ultimately receiving a final product that was
based on questionable data, GOP decided to terminate the study.
Follow-UD:   -
Evaluation: The subproject could not fulfil its objectives because of the
unsatisfactory          performance         of         the         consultants.



- 51 -
Subproject No:33
Title                    Road User Charges
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           November 11, 1985
Date Completed           June 30, 1987
Cost                     Pak Re 1,480,000
Objectives: The study was designed to examine the existing structure and
level   of  road  user  charges  for  major  types  of  vehicles,  consider
alternative   road   pricing   policies,  and  recommend  a  mechanism  for
introducing user charges that reflect the rehabilitation and maintenance
requirements that result from the operation of various types of vehicles.
Estimates  of  the  magnitude  of  funds  that  could be generated from the
recommended user charges were also to be derived.
Implementation: The National Transport Research Centre of MOPD was hired
to carry out the study in November 1985. The study was completed with
marginal delays.
Follow -UP: While the study provided an estimate of the existing level of
road user charges and the revenues that could be generated fron various
levels  of  such  charges,  there  has  been  no  explicit follow up on the
consultants' report.
Evaluation:  The  study  provided an initial input into the Government/Bank
dialogue  on  policy  issues in the road transport sector. Specific studies
to develop reform programs for the proposed Transport Sector Loan are
being developed for financing under the Third Technical Assistance Credit.



- 52 -
Subproject No:34
Title                   Health Sector Financing and Expenditure Study
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated          September 30, 1986.
Date Completed          May 1988
Cost                    US$ 420,000
Obiectiv: The study was designed to i) identify the overall scale and
major categories of expenditure in the health sector, ii) review existing
sources of finance and develop new options for financing and iii) identify
ways and means for improving the efficiency of resource use in the sector.
IgDlementation: A joint venture of foreign and local consultants was hired
to carry out the study. To compile data on the sources of finance and
expenditure on various health care activities, the consultants carried out
a series of surveys covering hospitals, medical practitioners, households,
and employers. These estimates were used for forecasting the demand, cost
and supply of health services upto the year 2000. Besides, the consultants
made recommendations on the viability of introducing user charges and the
likely impact of alternate methods of paying for health care services on
various income groups and the Government's budget. During the course of
the study, consultants were able to share the partial results of their
investigations and analysis with GOP and the Bank on a continuing basis.
Follow-UD: The subproject has provided useful insight3 and information for
the design of public health policy; these are being used as inputs for the
preparation of the Seventh Five Year Plan.
Evaluation: Although the study was completed six months late, its major
objective of providing inputs for the design of GOP's health sector
policies                was                 largely                 achieved.



- 53 -
Subproject No:35
Title                   Karachi Special Development Project (KSDP)
Implementing Agency     Government of Sind
Date Initiated          June 15, 1984
Date Completed          October 18, 195
Cost                    USS 167,338
 488
Obiectives:   This   subproject   was   designed   to  provide  specialized
consultant's  inputs  for the preparation of selected components related to
traffic engineering, mass transit, solid waste management, Katchi abadis,
etc for KSDP.
Ioplesentation: Six individual foreign consultants were hired during 1984
and 1985 for short term assignments (ranging from 3/4 weeks to 3 months)
to prepare background reports for selected components of KSDP.
Fo11w-Up: The Karachi Special Developsent Project (Lu 1652-PAK) was
approved by the Board on December 20, 1985.
EvalMation: The subproject achieved its objectives of providing support
for             the              preparation             of             KSDP.



- 54 -
Subproject No:36
Title                    Feasibility   Study   for   setting  up  Five  High
Technology Institutes.
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Planning and Development
Date Initiated           April 21, 1985
Date Co-pleted
Cost                     US$ 24,693
Obiectives: GOP's Sixth Plan Working Group on Science and Technology had
recomsended the setting up of high level research institutes in a number
of   emerging  technologies,  i.e.  material  sciences,  laser  optics  and
telecommunications, microelectronics and computers, vehicular propulsion
and renewable energy. The subproject was designed to provide services of
high level international experts to i) advise GOP on the feasibility of
entering into research in these fields, ii) identify potential fields of
study, iii) develop programs of research for such institutions, iv)
identify training needs and v) indicate the requirements of various inputs
including laboratory facilities, along with cost estimates.
Implementation: UNDTCD was assigned the task of identifying and recruiting
international experts to carry out the abovementioned tasks. For a period
of about 18 months after the signing of the contract, UNDTCD was unable to
make any progress in hiring the required experts. Only one prefeasibility
for the Institute of Renewable Energy was completed in late 1986. Given
this lack of commitment on the part of UNDTCD to satisfactorily carry out
their obligation, GOP decided to terminate the agreement.
Follow-UD:   -
Evaluation: The subproject could not meet its objectives of providing
support for GOP's plan for setting up additional research facilities in
high technology fields as UNDTCD was unable to hire the required experts
to carry out these pre-feasibility studies.



