DOUETS         DIT NUMBER 1256 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1256 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 1982,
between ISLAMIC REPUBLI        PAKISTAN acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower intends to carry out a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve a structural
adjustment of its economy (hereinafter called the Structural
Adjustment Program) as described in the letter dated May 10, 1982
from the Borrower to the Association;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
to provide assistance towards the financing of urgent imports to
be made during the execution of the Structural Adjustment Program
and the Association and the Bank are agreeing to such financing
(hereinafter called Structural Adjustment Financing) under agree-
ments to be concluded between the Borrower and the Association
and the Borrower and the Bank, respectively (hereinafter called
the Structural Adjustment Credit Agreement and the Structural
Adjustment Loan Agreement, respectively);
(C) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement which is meant to support the Structural Adjustment
Program by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term Project
Preparation Advances means the project preparation advances
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the
letters of the Association to the Borrower dated December 16,
1981 and February 9, 1982.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amounts of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on.   The unwithdrawn balances of the authorized amounts of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrie from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1992, and ending June 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate technical, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Planning and Eco-
nomic Affairs, shall coordinate the carrying out of all Parts of
the Project, and, for this purpose, shall establish and there-
after maintain a unit with duly qualified and experienced staff
in sufficient numbers.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conlitions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services finanzed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use In the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or ser-ices to be financed out of the proceeds of ti.
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until o7ne year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
.2tatements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expendi-
tures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said separ-
ate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gener-
al Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the Structural
Adjustment Program, or a significant part thereof, shall be car-
ried out.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date                   '17       is hereby
specified for the purposes o       Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General.
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.,                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
|y               Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditure-
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Consultants'             5,200,000             100%
services and
studies
(2) Training and               115,000             100%
fellowships
(3) Vehicles and               130,000
equipment
(a) directly imported                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) otherwise procured                       65%
locally
(4) Refunding of               620,000            Amounts due
Project Preparation
Advances
(5) Unallocated                235,000
TOTAL    6,300,000


﻿- 10-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbu-rsement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such iteim as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿-11 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit,


﻿- 12
SCEDULE 2
Description of the roject
The Project consists of various high-priority programs,
studies and reviews, to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, in support of the Borrower's Structural Adjustment
Program, inter alia, with respect to the development of a
computerized balance of payments forecasting model, a suitable
methodology for preparing agricultural price recommendations, the
structure and effectiveness of the industrial incentive system, a
public enterprises monitoring system, the short and medium-term
demand and supply of natural gas and the exploration and develop-
ment of oil, gas, and electric power planning in Pakistan.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿13
Prtrement
A.   Procedures
Contracts  for goods   shall   be  procured  through  prudent
shopping.
Bo   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
10   Review of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)  Before a final decision on the award is made, the Bor-
rower shall inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably requesto The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination0
(b) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tracto
2.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
1982.
FOR SECRETARY


