                                                   Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                          Report No: 36281-UA




                                  PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ON A PROPOSED LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                                 TO UKRAINE

                                                    FOR THE

                           ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

                     IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE PROJECT'S

                          VERTICAL ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING

                                                  May 25, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective February 8, 2006)
                       Currency Unit =      Ukrainian hryvnia (UAH)
                              UAH 1 =       US$0.20
                                US$1 =      UAH 5.05

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1     ­     December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
BSMC     Bank Selection and Monitoring Commission
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CU       Credit Unions
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FIL      Financial Intermediary Loans
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IAS      International Accounting Standards
IFRS     International Financial Reporting Standards
ISA      International Standards of Auditing
IT/MIS   Information Technology/Management Information Systems
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF      Ministry of Finance
NACSU    National Association of Credit Unions
NBFI     Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NBU      National Bank of Ukraine
OM       Operations Manual
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PB       Participating Bank
PHRD     Japanese Grant for Policy and Human Resource Development
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
RSME     Rural and Small and Medium-Size Enterprises
SCRFSM   State Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets
SLA      Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME      Small and Medium-Size Enterprises
SNG      Sub-national Government
TA       Technical Assistance
UAH      Ukranian hryvnia

                       Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director:      Paul G. Bermingham
                       Sector Director:     Fernando Montes-Negret
                       Sector Manager       Gerardo Corrochano
                  Task Team Leaders:        Hormoz Aghdaey

           UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                      Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE .................................................................... 1

  1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR ISSUES............................................................................................ 1

  2. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT................................................................................. 8

  3. HIGHER LEVEL OBJECTIVES TO WHICH THE PROJECT CONTRIBUTES ..................................... 8

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................................... 9

  1. LENDING INSTRUMENT ........................................................................................................ 9

  2. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE AND PHASES ..................................................................................... 9

  3. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY INDICATORS.............................................. 10

  4. PROJECT COMPONENTS...................................................................................................... 10

  5. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN............................................. 11

  6. ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION.............................................. 12

C. IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................................................... 13

  1. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS: ................................................. 13

  2. MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF OUTCOMES/RESULTS................................................. 14

  3. SUSTAINABILITY................................................................................................................ 15

  4. CRITICAL RISKS AND POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS............................................... 15

  5. LOAN/CREDIT CONDITIONS AND COVENANTS ................................................................... 16

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY .................................................................................................... 17

  1. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES ............................................................................. 17

  2. TECHNICAL........................................................................................................................ 17

  3. FIDUCIARY......................................................................................................................... 17

  4. SOCIAL............................................................................................................................... 18

 5. ENVIRONMENT................................................................................................................... 18

 6. SAFEGUARD POLICIES........................................................................................................ 19

 7. POLICY EXCEPTIONS AND READINESS................................................................................ 19



ANNEX 1: COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ..................................................... 20

ANNEX 2: MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR
OTHER AGENCIES .................................................................................................................. 41

ANNEX 3: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING.............................................. 42

ANNEX 4: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION.............................................................. 44

ANNEX 5: PROJECT COSTS .................................................................................................. 50

ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ......................................................... 51

ANNEX 7: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS57

ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT ................................................................................................... 64

ANNEX 9: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS...................................................... 77

ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES......................................................................... 78

ANNEX 11: PROJECT PREPARATION AND SUPERVISION.......................................... 80

ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE.......................................................... 81

ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS...................................................... 82

ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ................................................................................ 83

ANNEX 15: MAP (IBRD 33505) ............................................................................................... 85

                                                    UKRAINE
                                  ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                        PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                                           EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
                                                      ECSPF

Date: May 25, 2006                                         Team Leader: Hormoz Aghdaey
Country Director: Paul G. Bermingham                       Sectors: Banking (34%); Micro- and SME finance
Sector Manager/Director: Fernando Montes-Negret            (33%); General finance sector (33%)
                                                           Themes: Rural markets (P); Small and medium
                                                           enterprise support (P); Infrastructure services for private
                                                           sector development (S)
Project ID: P076553                                        Environmental screening category: Financial
                                                           Intermediary Assessment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan


                                              Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee             [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$): APL 300. 00 million. Phase I: 150.00 million; Phase II: 150.00 million
Proposed terms: VSL with maturity of 20 years including 5 years grace on annuity basis of repayment;
                 Standard IBRD charges apply
                                              Financing Plan*(US$m)
                     Source                                 Local               Foreign                  Total
BORROWER                                                        0.00                  0.00                   0.00
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                                          0.00                150.00                150.00
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                               35.00                   0.00                  35.00
Total:                                                        35.00                 150.00                185.00
*The financing plan is for the first phase
Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Kyiv
Ukraine

Responsible Agency:
PMU of the Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Grushevskogo Str.
Kyiv 01008
Ukraine
Tel: 380 44 279 73 46      Fax: 380 44 279 23 03
nkonovalenko@minfin.gov.ua



FY                              2006              2007               2008              2009                2000
Annual                           0.00             45.50              50.50             45.00                 9.00
Cumulative                       0.00             45.50              96.00            141.00              150.00

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects? Ref. PAD A.3         [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                                        [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                        [ ]Yes [X] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                         [ ]Yes [X] No



                                                         i

Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                                           [X]Yes [ ] No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? Ref. PAD D.7             [X]Yes [ ] No

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
The objective of the APL program is to help increase the contribution of financial markets to economic growth
through the provision of limited long term finance for rural small and medium enterprises (RSMEs); and
institutional development finance that can play a catalyst role in development of skills, services and respective
market infrastructure. This project (APL1) aims to increase access to financial services in rural areas, specifically
for RSMEs.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical Annex 4
AFSP will finance the first phase of the APL through provision of: (i) a credit line, to be on-lent by the Ministry of
Finance through three commercial banks (Participating Banks - PBs) that meet Project's eligibility criteria, to
eligible RSMEs and agricultural enterprises and SNGs. In addition, it will finance institutional building for these
PBs; (ii) support for enabling environment for financial intermediation through the strengthening of the regulatory
capacity and financial market legislation and infrastructure to support lending to RSMEs and SNGs; and (iii) support
for project management and monitoring and evaluation.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
As the project's focus is on a line of credit for rural micro businesses, entrepreneurs, small and medium enterprises,
the majority of sub-loans are not expected to produce any major environmental impact. However, given the rural
nature of the project, agricultural sub-projects which involve application of pesticides and agricultural chemicals
could trigger the safeguard policy on pest management. It is expected that any such sub-projects would be small
scale. However, in order to minimize the risks to human health and environment and to mitigate potential negative
consequences, a pest management plan for such sub-projects has been developed and is included in the
environmental guidelines manual that has been prepared for the project.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Loan effectiveness:
·    Subsidiary Loan Agreements are signed with at least two PBs selected in accordance with terms and conditions
     satisfactory to the Bank.
·    Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, finalized and approved by the MoF.
·    A legal opinion is furnished to the Bank, confirming that the Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
     ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding and valid
·    Legal opinions are furnished to the Bank for at least two signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA),
     confirming that they have been duly signed by the Borrower and PBs, are legally binding and valid on the
     Borrower and PBs
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
·    On-lending arrangements for passing Loan funds from MoF to PBs
·    Eligibility criteria for sub-borrowers (final beneficiaries) and sub-loans, including subloan limits
·    The Bank to review the first two subloans of each PB above US$50,000 equivalent, any subloan over
     US$1,000,000 and all subloans for SNGs
·    Aggregate amount of subloans to a single final beneficiary (or group of connected beneficiaries) not to exceed
     US$4,000,000
·    The maximum size of subloans will be US$1,500,000 to RSMEs, US$50,000 equivalent (UAH 250,000) to
     micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs and UAH 40,000,000 to SNGs. The maximum size of working capital
     loans will be US$300,000 equivalent.
·    Expenditures for subloans to RSMEs incurred up to 180 days prior to receipt of the subloan application by the
     MoF will be eligible for reimbursement from the Loan
·    The Borrower will maintain, throughout project implementation, the BSMC to verify the continued compliance
     of the PBs with the eligibility criteria under Component A of the Project
·    Up to 15 percent of Component A to be available to PBs for their institutional development investments, only
     after at least 5 percent of the Subsidiary Loan amount has been disbursed for subloans to final beneficiaries.




                                                             ii

                         A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and Sector Issues (see Annex 1 for more information)

Ukraine enjoyed a high GDP growth of 50 percent from 1999 through 2004. At 12.1 percent in
2004, GDP growth was the highest in Europe. Growth has been increasingly broad-based, with
industry playing the leading role. Agriculture accounts for about 11 percent of GDP but has
considerable growth potential. The rural economy is largely underdeveloped and suffers from
limited access to finance, obsolete technologies, underdeveloped infrastructure as well as
declining or aging population. During 1999-2004, industrial production grew by 87 percent.
Improved financial discipline, substantial real depreciation of the hryvnia in 1998-99, more
prudent fiscal and monetary policies and improvement of the business climate, have all
contributed to this good performance. Although GDP growth slowed down significantly in 2005
to only 2.4 percent (due mainly to the reduction of prices in the international markets for
Ukraine's main exports such as steel works and chemicals), Ukraine continued its stable
macroeconomic performance and structural reforms. GDP growth for 2006 was previously
projected to be in the range of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent. However, these estimates have been
lowered by about 2 percent because of the expected impact of the recent gas price increase.

Despite serious efforts of the Government in creating modern legislation and enabling business
environment, significant constraints to the development of the private sector remain. The recent
Country Economic Memorandum (2004) indicates that growth has been concentrated in large
financial-industrial groups that are able to take advantage of growth opportunities in the
domestic and export markets due to their integration with the banking sector. In contrast, rural
and small and medium enterprises (RSMEs) have limited access to credit, restricting the extent
to which they have been able to contribute to GDP growth and benefit from increasing business
opportunities domestically or in foreign markets. Similarly, subnational governments (SNGs),
including utilities, have limited access to long-term funds to meet their capital investment needs.
Only the largest cities have so far been able to attract longer term finance from issuing municipal
bonds while other local governments are constrained by the deficient legal framework and
limited skills in the area of financial planning and project management.

The development of rural finance has been a key priority for consecutive governments of
Ukraine.1 In this context, the authorities have designed a program aimed at increasing overall
access to credit markets with special focus on RMSEs and SNGs.2 This strategy recognizes that,
to be successful, credit markets must be supported in two directions simultaneously: (i) from the
top down, by providing a legal and policy framework that will support efficient credit market
operations; and (ii) from the bottom up, by providing the opportunity to banks and other lenders
to acquire practical experience in making loans and offering new financial services to clients
with limited access to credit.




1In December 2005, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted the "Concept of the Complex Program of Support for Rural
Development".
2Letter, dated May 18, 2006, from the Minister of Finance outlines this program. An unofficial translation is
included as an Attachment to Annex 1.


                                                        1

Throughout the period of 1996-2005, the Bank has played an important role in supporting the
Government's priorities in the above areas. In addition to lending operations and economic and
sector work (ESW), the Bank had an active policy dialogue supporting, inter alia, Ukraine's
efforts to strengthen banking supervision, bank restructuring and financial market development.
In addition to investment loans, lending included a number of policy-based operations which
supported, inter alia, strengthening legislation and supervision of banks and nonbank financial
institutions (NBFIs), liquidation/restructuring of state-owned banks, development of deposit
insurance, improving governance and strengthening property and creditor rights (see Annex 2).
ESW has included policy notes on financial sector reform, a comparative study with other
countries in the region on bank consolidation and a study on the challenges faced in developing
and regulating NBFI services, including insurance, pensions, SNG finance and capital markets.3

This work provides the foundation for the current program of financial sector assistance, which
aims to support the needs of the growing economy as well as address remaining weaknesses and
constraints in the performance of the domestic financial sector. It comprises both policy-based
and investment operations (including the AFSP) (see Box 1). The investment projects are
structured to meet the development objectives of the Government in supporting the reform of
individual segments of the economy (rural SMEs, medium and large exporters, and municipal
water companies).          A series of Development Policy Loans support the overall reform agenda
and provide a platform for policy dialogue. The proposed AFSP Adaptable Program Loan


  Box 1: Planned Lending Operations - 2006
  Development Program Loan 2 (DPL 2) (US$250 million) will focus on a range of policy issues, including
  protection of property rights, improvement of investment climate and creation of sound legal and regulatory
  framework for banks and non-bank financial institutions, introduction of new financial services and development of
  vibrant capital markets by reforming financial legislation. Moreover, the program promotes development of
  sustainable institutions (market regulators, Government agencies and ministries), increased transparency and
  management of public finance, and enhanced governance of private and public sector.
  Export Development Project 2 (EDP 2) (US$150 million) is being prepared as an investment operation, and will
  provide long term finance for medium and large export enterprises (located mainly in industrial regions and urban
  areas) and creation of a functioning export credit and guarantee agency on the basis of the Ukreximbank. This
  project builds upon EDP1 to further promote the entry of new Ukrainian export products and enterprises into
  international markets.
  Access to Financial Services Project (AFSP) is a two-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL). APL1 (US$150
  million) aims to increase access to financial services in rural areas, especially for RSMEs. It will (i) provide long
  term finance through eligible commercial banks for RSMEs and on a pilot basis for SNGs; (ii) support institutional
  development of the selected commercial banks; and (iii) provide support to improve the enabling environment for
  financial intermediation through strengthening of the regulatory capacity and financial market legislation, and
  enhancing financial sector infrastructure.
  Urban Infrastructure Project: (US$140 million) is designed to assist the Ministry of Construction and water
  authorities of several participating cities: (i) to prepare annual business plans and improve their financial
  management capacity; and (ii) access targeted longer term financing to meet the investment needs of the cities in
  mitigating serious health and environmental risks posed by the water, wastewater and solid waste sectors, as well as
  replace old equipment with more efficient and energy saving technology.



 3 Financial Sector Policy Notes (1995, 2001), provided overview of the financial sector development and reform
   agenda for the banks and NBFIs; Comparative Study on Bank Consolidation (2003); and the NBFI Study (2005).




                                                              2

(APL) supports the implementation of the Government's program to improve access to finance
in rural areas, as well as of SNGs.

Overall Financial Sector Context

The financial sector of Ukraine has developed significantly over the last several years and total
assets reached nearly 55 percent of GDP by the end of 2005. However, the quality, variety and
accessibility of the financial services, especially in rural areas, is still inadequate, and the
financial sector is dominated by banks (which account for over 85 percent of the sector's total
assets). Non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) are underdeveloped and constitute less than 10
percent of GDP. The insurance industry, the largest segment of NBFI market, has been growing
rapidly. Gross premium income was about 4 percent of GDP in 2005. Pension funds, credit
unions, leasing and factoring companies are negligible, accounting for less than 1 percent of
GDP. The securities market remains shallow, illiquid and non-transparent.

Banking Sector

There were 162 operating banks at the beginning of 2006, including 2 State-owned and 9 fully
foreign-owned banks. Eighty-five banks are based in Kyiv; others are located in the main
industrial and business regions. As of end 2005, the ten largest banks (including 2 state-owned
and 2 foreign banks that belonged to the Raiffeisen Group ­ Aval Bank and Raiffeisenbank
Ukraina) accounted for about 54 percent of net assets of the banking sector and about 43 percent
of total capital. State-owned banks constitute only about 8 percent of assets and 5 percent of the
capital of the banking sector. The balance of banking system is fragmented, with numerous
small "pocket-banks" which often belong to industrial groups and are used for the cash flow
management of their parent enterprises. The banks suffered a run on deposits during the time
leading to the "Orange Revolution". A systemic crisis was avoided with the injection of UAH
5.8 billion (or 5 percent of the deposit base) by the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU).

As of end December 2005, total assets of the banking system increased to UAH 223 billion (US$
44.2 billion). Household and business deposits totaled UAH 133 billion (US$26.3 billion) or 32
percent of GDP. The capital adequacy ratio for the system as a whole was reportedly 14.9
percent by end-2005. However, given concerns relating to the opaqueness of ownership, and
hence related lending and its potential impact on the quality of assets, this figure may be over-
stated.

To date, the banking sector lacks access to long-term funding. More than 90 percent of deposits
have maturities of less than one year and more than 50 percent of the system's aggregate loan
portfolio has less than one year maturity. Real interest rates on bank loans remain high, but are
expected to decrease with the entry of reputable foreign banks to the system and increased
competition. This should also lead to an overall improvement in the quality of banking services.

In 2005 and early 2006, there was a significant entry of reputable foreign banks into Ukraine
through the purchase of a number of large and medium size banks. As a result, by April 2006,



                                                  3

majority foreign-owned banks controlled more than 35 percent of banking sector assets
(compared to only 11 percent in 2004). This trend is expected to continue.

The NBU is the regulator of the banking sector. A relatively modern legal/regulatory framework
is in place, albeit with certain important gaps such as disclosure of information on bank
ownership, related-parties transactions, as well as weak bank risk management. In addition
supervisory enforcement needs to be strengthened. The NBU is aware of the need to further
strengthen banking legislation and supervision and is using external technical assistance,
including from the World Bank, IMF and US Treasury, to upgrade its capacity, introduce risk-
based supervision and gradually move towards Basle II.

Non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs)

The NBFIs are regulated by the State Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets
(SCRFSM) or the State Securities Commission. The SCRFSM, established in December 2002,
is responsible for regulation and supervision of insurers, credit unions, non-Government pension
funds, leasing and factoring companies, pawnshops, and other financial institutions (such as
construction trust funds, etc). In response to the increasing importance of the NBFI service
providers and the still largely inadequate legal and regulatory framework for NBFIs, efforts are
needed to ensure that the SCRFSM, has adequate legal powers, funding and skills to carry out its
mandate.

Currently over 700 Credit Unions (CUs), providing services to more than 1 million individual
members, are registered with the SCRFSM. As of September 2005, total assets of CUs were
UAH 1.59 billion (US$310 million). More than 140 CUs (with 130,000 members) are members
of the National Association of Credit Unions (NACSU).4 Almost 60 percent of CUs are very
small, with only 100 to 500 members, and operate primarily in local communities.

NACSU monitors and self-regulates its members. It is dominated by several larger urban credit
unions. This has led to the formation, largely by the rural CUs, of 16 regional credit union
associations. CUs can play an important role in financial intermediation since they generally
have simple lending processes, based on personal knowledge of the borrower and past credit
behavior. However, CUs remain underdeveloped and are engaged primarily in urban consumer
lending due in part to a weak legal and regulatory framework, especially the governance
structure of NACSU.

Despite the high demand for capital investments and the need for replacement of obsolete fixed
assets, the leasing industry is seriously underdeveloped. Total lease revenues, in 2004, were
estimated at about 1 percent or less of GDP. Only 20 (including 3 state-owned companies) of the
40 registered leasing companies are operating.                Many leasing companies are in-house,
functioning more as captive finance companies dependent on the cash flow of the enterprise (or
enterprises) they serve. Commercial banks can also provide leasing products but these have been
limited, mainly due to the yet underdeveloped skills and lack of long-term funds.           Some
reputable foreign financial groups have recently shown interest in establishing leasing companies


4About 70 CUs lend in rural areas with loans ranging from UAH 60-30,000.


                                                        4

in Ukraine. In addition, a new leasing association has been established to promote the interests
of the leasing industry.

Mortgage finance activity is small but growing rapidly. During 2005 mortgage financing more
than tripled, reaching UAH 10.6 billion (2.5 percent of GDP) with the residential housing
finance loans amounting to about 1.6 percent of GDP. Mortgage loans make up 7.4 percent of
the total lending portfolio of banks. Thirteen banks control 78 percent of the residential housing
mortgage financing market.

To support liquidity of the mortgage market and provide refinancing to banks, in November
2004, the Government established the State Mortgage Institution (SMI) with a statutory capital
of UAH 20 million. The original strategy was to establish SMI as a liquidity facility, with
potential to expand its services once it has developed adequate management, skills and
procedures. Although the Government has recently been discussing other areas for SMI's
potential intervention, it is expected that the recently appointed management of SMI will
formulate a clearly defined strategy and a business plan for SMI's future operation in a non-
distortionary manner and at the lowest fiscal costs. Substantial support will be needed to ensure
that government housing policies do not undermine market practices and that the SMI operates in
accordance with prudent financial practices. This would require that the Government fine-tune
the legislation and reconsider its proposed strategy for subsidized mortgage finance to ensure
that it does not distort the market. The policy dialogue and conditionality relating to this issue
are beyond the scope of the current operation but are being pursed in the context of the
Development Policy Loan (DPL) series. Several donors, including USAID and TACIS, as well
as the Bank, have been providing assistance to the Government in the preparation of legislation
and the development of a secondary mortgage market. In this regard, USAID is implementing a
substantial technical assistance program on access to credit and on capital markets.                         This
program includes support for the SCRFSM and the SMI.

Small and Medium Enterprises

SMEs contribute significantly to employment and GDP, and provide the only employment and
income source to many poor households.5 Attention to their development is therefore essential
for economic growth and poverty reduction. At the lower end of the SME sector is a mixture of
the self-employed and "micro" enterprises, with less than 10 employees. A significant proportion
of these enterprises are found in the informal sector.

The 2002 reform of state collective farms resulted in reorganization and/or liquidation of almost
15,000 large public agricultural production enterprises and led to the creation of about 45,000
new farmer enterprises as well as the growth of rural SMEs. Many of these new enterprises
require significant funding to purchase production equipment and replace obsolete machinery.
Overall limited access to credit of the newly established enterprises has significantly hampered
the performance and growth of the RSMEs. As agriculture and the rural economy make up a
significant proportion of GDP, addressing the impediments to the growth of the sector is high on
the Government's reform agenda.


5The share of the SME sector in GDP is currently only 8 percent but it employs 21 percent of the labor force.


                                                        5

SNGs

With the exception of short-term borrowing for budget deficit financing, there is no significant
borrowing by SNGs outside Kyiv. This situation hinders the ability of the central government to
decentralize important parts of local public service delivery. Furthermore, lack of access to
financial services limits the provision and coverage of local services that SNGs provide, since
they are unable to finance the capital costs required to upgrade or expand infrastructure
networks. Lack of a SNG credit market, in short, is preventing the development of a public
finance system that assigns significant decision-making power and financing responsibility to
SNGs. The existing legal framework for SNG borrowing does not comprehensively and
consistently address the issues related to SNG debt. Relevant rules are largely indirect, scattered
among various laws, decrees and regulations or established on an informal basis. In several
instances, they are inconsistent, incomplete or ambiguous, further exacerbating the legal
uncertainty for SNG lending.

Access to Credit Issues

Constraints on both the supply and demand sides limit access to credit by all potential borrowers,
especially RSMEs and SNGs. Constraints include the following: (i) the financial infrastructure is
insufficiently developed to aid financial intermediaries in their assessment and mitigation of risk,
for example, inadequate information on the repayment history of borrowers (through well-
functioning credit bureaus, credit rating agencies and secured transactions registry for movable
property); (ii) the financial position of potential borrowers, especially in rural areas, is difficult to
ascertain due to unreliable financial reporting (financial statements are prepared primarily for tax
purposes and are not consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards--IFRS); (iii) an
inadequate legal and judicial framework provides weak protection of creditors' rights resulting in
excessive requirements for collateral (that makes it difficult for SMEs to borrow) and costly
dispute resolution process that increases the cost of lending; and (iv) high cost and short maturity
of loans discourage potential borrowers from applying for loans. In addition, the banks to date
have focused largely on relationship lending, making decisions on the basis of direct contacts
and knowledge of the borrower, which in many cases may have a controlling interest in the
lending bank. They have not invested in the development of systems, products and services to
enable them to engage with a broader range of clients.

In spite of progress in developing a sustainable local government system, challenges remain.
Although the basic framework is in place (e.g. Budget Code), legislation for SNG borrowing and
SNG debt remains dispersed and, in some instances, internally inconsistent. Almost all SNGS
have enormous investment needs to upgrade infrastructure and services, but under current
legislation oblasts, rayons, towns, villages and settlements cannot borrow, except to cover
current budget cash gaps. Nonetheless, some large banks are beginning to provide loans to the
utility companies against physical collateral, with the guarantee of the owner municipalities.

The proposed APL aims at addressing these constraints to accelerate access to credit by
providing strong foundations for the development of market-based financial services, through the
provision of TA and long-term financial resources. In regard to SNGs, the proposed APL1 aims



                                                   6

to improve the environment for bank lending by assisting the authorities develop the legal and
policy framework that is a prerequisite for increased market-based intermediation.6 A limited
amount of funding for on-lending to SNGs (on a pilot basis) could be considered for inclusion in
the project during the course of implementation, once the appropriate legal and policy framework
(satisfactory to the Bank) is in place. APL2 would provide additional long-term funding for
SNG investments as well as RSMEs. It is anticipated that CUs and leasing companies would
also qualify as participating financial intermediaries.

The Government's strategy for improving access to credit

The authorities have designed a program (see the letter of the Minister of Finance dated May 18,
2006) aimed at increasing overall access to credit markets with special focus on RMSEs and
SNGs, as their funding needs are not adequately met by the financial sector.

The Government strategy is predicated on the idea that credit markets must be built in two
directions. First from the top down, in terms of a legal and policy framework that will support
efficient credit market operations. And second from the bottom up, in terms of practical
experience for banks and other lenders in making loans to the clients with limited access today.
Both tracks, namely building a supportive legal and policy framework and accumulating
practical experience in RSMEs and SNGs lending are envisioned to move forward
simultaneously under the program.

The following will be the public policy interventions supported by the program: (a) assisting the
banking sector to develop the capacity to provide more diverse financial services, in order to
reduce the transaction costs' gap between lenders and potential borrowers and improve outreach
to new clients; (b) enhancing the protection of creditors rights to lessen the risk of lending to
potential borrowers; (c) building up the credit market infrastructure and new financial products
to make credit transactions more attractive to both borrowers and lenders; (d) providing technical
assistance to prepare the foundation for commercial borrowing by SNGs; and (e) making
available a comparatively modest amount of well-targeted and properly priced long-term credit
funds to trigger implementation of the program and promote rapid market take up of the
opportunities thereby created. 7

To bring about this new vision, the Government strategy includes:

·   Providing banks access to long-term resources for on-lending to RSMEs and SNGs.
·   Assisting financial intermediaries expand their presence in rural areas by accessing new
    clients and acquire the lending technologies suitable for lending to RSMEs and SNGs.



6 Legal reforms being supported under the project relate to credit relations between private lenders and SNGs. The
Bank, as part of its analytical and advisory activities (e.g., CEM) and adjustment lending operations has been
supporting Ukraine address issues related to fiscal policy and inter-government finance.
7 A Japanese PHRD Grant (TF025598) and a Project Preparation Facility (PPF P4020-UA) have supported the
design and initial implementation of the government program. In addition, several consultants' trust funds (CTFs)
have been used to finance smaller individual experts assignments (in the area of mortgage, insurance, secured
transactions reform).


                                                           7

·   Upgrading the lending infrastructure (policy, legal, regulatory and institutional) to stimulate
    the development of the financial services market.8

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank is well positioned to add value in supporting the authorities in the development and
implementation of the program, including providing technical assistance and advice on a broad
range of policy issues relating to the financial sector in general, as well as access to finance for
RSMEs and SNGs. Through its involvement in the proposed Project, the Bank can contribute to
the achievement of the program's objectives.

As part of project preparation, the Bank has helped the Government develop its vision to increase
access to credit markets by RSMEs and SGNs, identify benchmarks and milestones to reach the
intended objectives, and obtain the required technical assistance either directly or through grants
from donors, such as the Japanese Government and other bilateral donors. The Government
looks to the Bank for leadership in this area, including in coordinating donor support.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The project will help create the conditions for the development of an internationally competitive
private sector. It will support the Government's priority program to develop regional economies,
financial market infrastructure and rural and municipal credit markets.                         In pursuing this
objective, the project will assist in: (a) accelerating economic transformation by increasing the
flow of credit resources to sectors that, by and large, have been excluded from financial markets,
(b) increasing the contribution of RSMEs to the economy by improving their access to financial
services, and (c) improving the quality of local public services through an improved environment
for and investments in local infrastructure.

These objectives are fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2004-2007
discussed by the Board on September 29, 2003, and the CAS Progress Report (June 13, 2005)
discussed by the Board on July 5, 2005. The CAS supports the aspirations of Ukraine to join the
EU by continuing to facilitate institutional developments that can lead to a business-friendly
environment and a more inclusive and responsive government. The CAS is built around seven
broad objectives, including three relating to: (a) sustainable economic growth, with particular
emphasis on the environment for private sector development; (b) poverty reduction and
strengthening of the middle class; and (c) reducing regional imbalances. The proposed Access to
Financial Services APL will contribute to each of these objectives by jump-starting RSMEs and
SNGs access to credit markets. This in turn will lead, in the medium term, to employment
generation and hence poverty reduction.




8Some measures have already been undertaken toward improving the lending environment (particularly on the
legislative side) for RSMEs and to put in place a decentralized structure to enable borrowing by SNGs.



                                                          8

                                        B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1.       Lending Instrument

The Loan is structured as a vertical APL supporting a longer term Government reform program
that will be implemented in two phases during 2006-2013. Each phase of the program would be
implemented over a period of about four years. The proposed size of the APL lending facility is
US$300 million. The lending instrument proposed for the AFSP (APL1) will be a Bank's
Variable Spread Loan (VSL) in US dollar with a 20-year maturity, including a 5-year grace
period.

During the first phase (2006-2010), the Project (APL1) will provide medium to longer-term
finance to Ukrainian enterprises by intermediation of a credit line through eligible commercial
banks. In addition, it will provide institutional building finance for banks as well as technical
assistance for development of enabling environment for financial intermediation. The project is
justified since medium to longer term finance is limited in Ukraine and there is a strong demand
for longer term investment resources in rural areas to replace obsolete equipment and develop
modern financial sector infrastructure.

The APL instrument was chosen to allow for flexibility in program execution required to
gradually strengthen the capacity of eligible participating financial intermediaries to lend to
RSMEs and SNGs; and to strengthen the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for
increasing access to credit.

2.       Program Objective and Phases

The Program Objective is to help increase the contribution of financial markets to economic
growth through provision of limited longer term finance for RSMEs and institutional
development finance that can play a catalyst role in development of skills, services and
respective market infrastructure of rural finance market in Ukraine. APL1 (with a total cost of
about US$185 million, of which US$150 million9 will be Bank financed) will outline the global
program, setting out the frameworks required for project continuity in the long-run. It will
support inter alia: (a) the provision of credit to RSMEs10 and agricultural enterprises; (b) the
provision of credit to strengthen the lending skills of financial intermediaries; and (c) the
provision of technical assistance to support the strengthening of the credit market infrastructure,
legal and regulatory framework to expand access to finance for RSMEs and SNGs. It is
envisaged that pilot lending to SNGs could be provided under APL1, once an acceptable
legislative framework is in place.11




9Including the front end fee of US$375,000.
10Including micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs.
11The economic reform agenda of the Government of Ukraine calls for significant investments in urban and rural
infrastructure, housing and utilities. However, these investments are not feasible without passage of subnational
government debt legislation, reform of municipal finance system, and creation of a framework conducive for
development of vibrant mortgage and housing finance markets.



                                                           9

APL2 would build upon the institutional development of APL1. Consequently, it is expected
that APL2 would maintain a credit line component, with the participation of a broader scope of
financial intermediaries (such as Credit Unions and leasing companies) and more extensive
lending to SNGs. It would focus mainly on second generation financial sector issues, including
risk-based financial sector supervision (e.g., Basle II) and credit scoring systems to further
facilitate RSMEs access to credit, development of sophisticated risk management instruments for
the productive sector such as weather-based agricultural insurance and commodity exchanges.

The triggers for moving from the first phase to the second phase will be:

    ·   at least 60 percent of the line of credit disbursed;
    ·   less than 5 percent of the average outstanding sub-loans are classified as non-performing
        (doubtful and loss) while fully provisioned;
    ·    A satisfactory legal and regulatory framework is in place for leasing, factoring and credit
        unions (if these institutions to be included in APL2);
    ·   A satisfactory framework for SNG borrowing is in place, including the enforcement of a
        law on SNG borrowing that is acceptable to the Bank;
    ·   The Government has refrained from making credit lines (and or guarantees) available on
        non-market terms and conditions that could substantially undermine the objectives of the
        APL.

3.      Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to increase access to financial services in rural
areas, specifically for RSMEs. The key indicator will be an increase in the number of RSME
clients on the books of the PBs, compared to the situation as of late-2006. This would mean a
significant increase in the absolute amount of credit to RSMEs, as the banking sector is expected
to continue to experience fast real growth. Other key indicators will be an increase in the volume
of longer term finance extended by the PBs to RSMEs, legislation enacted relating to new
financial services and improved infrastructure and legislation to support financial services.

4.      Project Components

APL1 consists of three components (excluding the front end fee - Annex 4):

Component A: Access to Finance (about US$140 million or up to 93.6 percent of loan). This
component includes two sub-components:

        (1) A line of credit (about US$125 million) to provide long-term subloans (for
        investments, working capital or financial leases) through three Participating Banks (PBs)
        to: (i) eligible RSMEs and (ii) eligible agricultural enterprises. The three PBs (Pryvat
        Bank, Nadra Bank and Kreditprombank) were selected based on agreed criteria,
        including inter alia, the requirement that they operate under sound commercial principles,
        meet minimum financial performance and sound corporate governance standards and are
        in full compliance with NBU prudential regulations. Eligible RSMEs and agricultural
        enterprises will private sector legal entities, as well as microenterprises and



                                                  10

        entrepreneurs. The maximum size of sub-loans for RSMEs and agricultural enterprises
        would be US$1.5 million equivalent, unless the Bank, on an exceptional basis, agrees
        otherwise. The maximum size for working capital subloans will be US$300,000. Micro-
        subloans will be below UAH 250,000. (See Annex 6 for more details on eligibility
        requirements.) Detailed criteria for PBs, sub-borrowers and subloans are provided in
        Annex 6 and its attachments. Information on the PBs is provided in the Attachment to
        Annex 4. Lending to SNGs, on a pilot basis, could be considered for inclusion in the line
        of credit, if satisfactory legislation on the SNG borrowing and guarantees is put in place
        during project implementation and there is verifiable demand from SNG eligible
        borrowers. Otherwise, SNG financing will be considered under Phase 2 of the Program.
        The maximum size of subloans for SNGs will be UAH 40,000,000.

        (2) Institutional Development for PBs (about US$15 million). Funding from Component
        A (up to a maximum of 15 percent of this component) will be made available to the PBs
        to invest in their institutional development and information technology (IT) upgrading
        needs that support the achievement of the project objectives. PBs will have the option of
        shifting all or part of this allocation to the line of credit, should they decide during the
        course of implementation that they prefer to use their own funds for their institutional/IT
        development needs.

Component B: Enabling Environment for Financial Intermediation (US$ 8.0 million or
about 5.4 percent of loan). This component will finance institutional development (consulting
services and IT/MIS) as well as training of the Ministry of Finance and selected beneficiary
institutions (including the SCRFSM, Credit Bureau, SMI) to address the legislative and
institutional constraints which are impeding the expansion of financial intermediation, through
the strengthening of the regulatory capacity and financial market legislation; enhancing financial
sector and credit market infrastructure and improving the framework for borrowing by SNGs.

Component C: Project Management and Monitoring (about US$1.6 million or 1.0 percent of
loan). The APL1 will finance the staffing for the PMU as well as incremental expenditures
incurred by the MoF for project implementation, monitoring and evaluation. It is anticipated that,
by the time of APL2, the PMU will be mainstreamed into the structure of the MoF. Special
provisions will be incorporated in the project, including for carrying out small surveys and focus
groups to support project monitoring and evaluation (see Annex 6 for more information). It will
also cover the cost of the annual audit of the Project accounts.

5.      Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

Experience with the financing of credit lines has been mixed but recent evaluations across
several countries, including, inter alia, Turkey, India and Poland, indicate that problems include:

(i)      inadequate demand from project beneficiaries, lack of bankable subprojects.            The
         tendency to over-estimate the amount and pace of utilization of credit line resources has
         resulted in a large number of financial intermediary loans with slow disbursements and
         partially cancelled Bank loans across all Regions. Under this project, to help avoid an
         overstatement of demand, the commercial banks have provided an estimate of the



                                                   11

          funding they seek from the Loan and will have to pay a penalty (of up to one percent of
          this amount) if they fail to conclude the subsequent subsidiary loan agreements within an
          agreed timeframe.         Furthermore, funding will be provided to cover only a small
          proportion of the overall demand. As part of the agreed programs with the PBs,
          incentives and penalties will help ensure utilization of the funds.

 (ii)     weak accountability and capacity, lack of clearly defined and transparent indicators for
          monitoring performance of the financial intermediaries, as well as poor monitoring of
          overall project impact. Under the project, three PBs have been selected based on clear
          eligibility criteria to ensure that they are financially sound, are well-managed and have
          robust policies, procedures and practices. To strengthen accountability, project activities
          will be frequently and closely monitored both at the level of the PBs and the PMU, based
          on pre-defined criteria and indicators. In addition, the Borrower (MoF) intends to build
          in remedies should PBs fail to fulfill their obligations.

(iii)    an appropriate policy, institutional, and legal framework is a precondition for the healthy
         growth of financial intermediation. Such an environment reduces uncertainty, allows the
         banks to more accurately measure and price the risk of lending, as well as to better
         mitigate against possible default.              The shortcomings of the legal and institutional
         framework in Ukraine contribute to the high cost and risks of lending and possible
         adverse selection, leading to low levels of intermediation particularly to the APL target
         groups. The project aims at reducing these costs and risks through Component B,
         including during project preparation with support from the PHRD Grant and the PPF for
         this operation.

6.       Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

This project has had a long gestation, during which time many alternatives have been considered.
The result is an operation that is more attuned to the current Government's objectives and
implementation requirements.

The main alternative considered was to have two separate Bank loans: a project aimed at
increasing access to finance by RSMEs and a project for SNGs. For country programming
reasons, since a number of issues limiting access to financial services, especially those relating to
the enabling environment and infrastructure, were common to both clients, it was subsequently
decided to merge the two operations.12

The APL approach facilitates the design of a program which recognizes the different stage of
preparation of the various components, especially the need to adopt legislation relating to SNG
borrowing.13 A trigger for APL2 is the requirement that a satisfactory framework for SNG
borrowing, including the enforcement of a law on SNG borrowing, be in place. However,



12This decision was made following a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) meeting held in February 2005.
13A small pilot program of US$7 million funded by the Ministry of Finance in 2001 has not been disbursed yet due
to the lack of interest of commercial banks, owing to the ambiguous legislation on the rights of SNG borrowers in
using their assets and cash proceeds as collateral for loans.


                                                           12

flexibility is retained in APL1 to allow some lending to SNGs on a pilot basis, if these conditions
are met during implementation of APL1.

During the early stages of the Program's conceptual design, consideration was given to including
SNG financing as part of the budgetary process. This idea was rejected because of the risk of
making lending decisions based on political rather than commercial factors. Consideration was
also given to providing separate loans for technical assistance and a line of credit. This idea was
rejected because separate loans would not be attractive for the Borrower.

Other alternatives considered included: (i) having the NBU as the borrower and implementing
agency since the NBU has a proven record in managing lines of credit and, as the regulator, has a
close relationship with the banks. This option was rejected by the Ministry of Finance as it
wished to play a more central role in the preparation and implementation of the operation, and
use the opportunity to build capacity in the Ministry; and, (ii) on-lending to eligible leasing
companies and CUs. This was dropped in the absence of a satisfactory legal and regulatory
environment and in view of the weak institutional performance of leasing companies and CUs.
If these issues are addressed, these institutions are expected to be able to participate in APL2.

                                          C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

The Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be the representative of the Borrower and have overall
responsibility for project implementation. The Project will be implemented through a Project
Management Unit (PMU) in the MoF. Funds for Component A will be onlent by the MoF to
three preselected PBs under Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs), satisfactory to the Bank.
Conclusion of at least two SLAs (satisfactory to the Bank) between the MoF and the PBs is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Project. PBs will be responsible for implementation
of Component A. MoF will administer and manage the funds and activities for Components B
and C. The MoF in its role as the Borrower and implementing agency will be responsible for
ensuring that the project is efficiently implemented.

The PMU, headed by a Director, has been established and adequately staffed.14 Resources are
provided in the Project for additional support as needed. The Minister or Finance is the Project
Coordinator and the primary project counterpart and he has authorized the Deputy Minister to
provide regular oversight and guidance to the PMU. The PMU will be responsible for the
overall administration of the project, coordination with project beneficiaries and reporting to the
Bank. More details of the institutional arrangements for project management are described in
Annex 6.

For the purposes of Component A, a Bank Selection and Monitoring Commission (BSMC) has
been established (through an order of the Cabinet of Ministers) with the participation of the MoF
and NBU. Prior to appraisal, based on the agreed selection criteria, the banks were pre-selected
by the BSMC, with the NBU playing a key role. The Bank has provided its no objection to three


14 Initial support for the PMU, including its staff, has been funded from the Project's PPF.


                                                           13

pre-selected banks. The BSMC will be maintained during project implementation to help verify
the PBs' continued compliance with the eligibility criteria.

PBs will have the key role in implementing Component A of the project. Subloans to final
beneficiaries will be made on commercial terms, in accordance with the policies and procedures
of the PBs. PBs will bear the commercial risk and will be responsible for subproject appraisal
and all lending decisions. Subloans to RSMEs could be made in US$ (for exporters) or UAH.
Microlending will be in UAH.

The first two sub-loans of each PB above US$50,000 equivalent, all sub-loans to RSMEs of
US$1.0 million equivalent and above, and all subloans to SNGs will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. The PMU will review all such applications and provide recommendations on
whether they meet the eligibility criteria, prior to submission to the Bank. All other sub-loans
will be subject to post-review by the Bank.

The PBs may use the funds under Subcomponent A2 for their own institutional development and
IT needs. These activities will be consistent with the PB's overall business strategy and planning
and will be agreed with the Bank during the course of project implementation. Given the lead
time needed for moving ahead with these activities, it is expected that each PB will have
disbursed at least 5 percent of its Subsidiary Loan for subloans before these activities are
initiated.

Currently the legislation relating to borrowing by SNGs does not provide adequate, unambiguous
authority to SNGs to borrow for more than one year for investment needs or to use SNG assets
and payment proceeds as collateral. Nor does it provide adequate protection to the creditors in
case of SNG's default since courts will not issue decisions against local authorities. As the
existence of such legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, is fundamental for prudent commercial
bank lending to SNGs, lending to SNGs on a pilot basis, may be considered for inclusion in the
project, only once satisfactory legislation is in place. Legislation to this effect has been drafted
but has not yet been submitted to Parliament.15

2.      Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes/Results

Progress in achieving the Program's objectives will be measured through a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to be established by the PMU, including the use of
surveys of subloan beneficiaries. The M&E system will provide information on specific targets
for project performance indicators (see Annex 3), based on data collected from the PBs and the
beneficiaries of any project-related technical assistance. A mid-term review, to be held about
two years after loan effectiveness (by about June 2008), will include a detailed assessment of
progress and achievements to date and will serve as the basis to determine readiness to proceed
with the APL2.

The PBs and beneficiaries will maintain all records necessary to measure the performance and
viability of their project-related activities. Records will be available for review by the PMU and

15Such sub-projects would also be likely to support urgently required rehabilitation or equipment for vital services
while further attention is given to the application of appropriate cost recovery mechanisms and their management.


                                                           14

Bank staff, as necessary. The PMU will prepare, and submit to the Bank for its review,
consolidated quarterly reports,16 based on information provided by the PBs and beneficiaries.
The Bank will conduct implementation reviews, as part of its normal supervision, on a semi-
annual basis, supplemented by more frequent reviews during the initial implementation period.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months of the project's
Closing Date.

3.       Sustainability

Project sustainability is ensured by the Government's commitment to increase access to finance
to RSMEs and to foster agricultural and rural development, as well as to put in place the
necessary legal and regulatory environment to facilitate borrowing by SNGs. The project has
been under preparation for some time and, throughout this period, different governments (and
political parties) have continuously supported the above objective. The phased approach of the
APL permits attention to be paid initially to putting in place the necessary legal framework and
developing the appropriate capacity to permit borrowing on a commercial basis by SNGs.
Lending to RSMEs would increase and lending to SNGs could be scaled up during the second
phase, once the appropriate conditions are in place. Ukrainian banks are increasingly focusing
on lending to the rural SME segment and are looking at developing new financial sector
products. This trend is likely to continue. Lending to SNGs offers tremendous potential for
commercial banks and the PBs are anxious to tap into this once the appropriate environment,
including legislation to protect creditors' rights, is in place. Support provided under Component
B of the project aims to help further the reform of the legal and regulatory framework and build
institutional capacities of regulatory agencies, market infrastructure institutions and market
participants. The results of these efforts would have a sustainable long-term impact on the
financial markets and their interaction with the real sector. These benefits would continue
beyond the end of the APL.

4.       Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects

Critical risks that may impede successful project implementation are identified below. In
addition, it should be noted that there is a risk that political developments relating to the recent
elections and the lack of project management experience in the MoF could increase the
uncertainty of the timely delivery of this project. The timing could be exacerbated by lengthy
authorization procedures in Ukraine, which have in the past caused delays in signing and
effectiveness of other projects.

                 Risk                              Proposed Measures for Mitigation                Level of Risk
Risk to achievement of PDO:
Government's efforts to implement      Commitment of the current Government and opposition              H
measures to improve the legislative    parties to the project objectives. The risk is further
and institutional framework are        mitigated by the coverage of the reform agenda under the
derailed because of political          proposed DPLs and Ukraine's desire for EU accession.
opposition or instability.
Opaqueness of ownership (quality of    Conditionality under other Bank operations (DPLs) to
assets) of a large number of banks     strengthen regulation and supervision of the banking sector      S


16Formats for these reports have been agreed with the Bank.


                                                         15

and possible related lending could    will help mitigate this risk. Under this project, the Bank
undermine the overall health of the   will require complete disclosure to ensure the soundness of
financial sector                      the PBs.
Risks to realization of project
Components:
An overly bureaucratic/legalistic     Effort has been made to streamline implementation of          S
approach of MoF in implementation     component A of the project. Guidelines will be reflected in
will cause project slow down          an agreed Operations Manual of the PMU
PBs will not be sufficiently          Stringent eligibility criteria for PBs to allow maximum       M
motivated to lend project funds to    reliance on the PBs own credit policies and procedures. In
RSMEs                                 addition, banks will have to pay a commitment charge on
                                      unused funds to encourage their prompt use and provisions
                                      to apply remedies are built into the project in case of
                                      failure to perform
Demand for credit fails to meet       The credit line will be substantially less than the demand
projected amounts estimated by the    expressed by the banks. Provision of long-term funds to       S
banks, due to either terms and        meet capital investment needs. PMU procedures are
conditions of sub-loans or complex    being developed to streamline its role
procedures
Political interference in credit      Credit decisions will be made by the PBs based on agreed
allocation decisions                  criteria and in accordance with commercial practices, with    S
                                      the PMU having an administrative and monitoring role
For Component B, PMU fails to         The project includes a provision of funds for the
carry out its role in a timely manner appointment of short-term technical experts to                H
                                      complement PMU staff skills and procedures are being
                                      developed to ensure that project beneficiaries retain
                                      responsibility and accountability for their respective
                                      subcomponents
Overall risk rating:                                                                                S

5.        Loan/Credit Conditions and Covenants

Loan effectiveness:
·   A legal opinion is furnished to the Bank, confirming that the Loan Agreement has been duly
    authorized or ratified by the Borrowers and is legally binding and valid on the Borrower
·   Subsidiary Loan Agreements are executed with at least two PBs, in accordance with terms
    and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
·   Legal opinions are furnished to the Bank on least two signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
    confirming they have been duly signed by the Borrower and PBs and are legally binding and
    valid on the Borrower and PBs
·   The Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, is finalized and approved by the MoF.

Other Covenants:
·   On-lending arrangements for passing Loan funds from MoF to PBs
·   Eligibility criteria for sub-borrowers (final beneficiaries) and sub-loans, including subloan
    limits
·   The Bank to review the first two subloans of each PB above US$50,000 equivalent, any
    subloan over US$1,000,000 and all subloans for SNGs
·   Aggregate amount of subloans to a single final beneficiary (or group of connected
    beneficiaries) not to exceed US$4,000,000



                                                        16

·   The maximum size of subloans will be US$1,500,000 to RSMEs, US$50,000 equivalent
    (UAH 250,000) to micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs and UAH 40,000,000 to SNGs. The
    maximum size of working capital loans will be US$300,000 equivalent.
·   Expenditures for subloans to RSMEs incurred up to 180 days prior to receipt of the subloan
    application by the MoF will be eligible for reimbursement from the Loan
·   The Borrower will maintain, throughout project implementation, the BSMC to verify the
    continued compliance of the PBs with the eligibility criteria under Component A of the
    Project
·   Up to 15 percent of Component A to be available to PBs for their institutional development
    investments, only after at least 5 percent of the Subsidiary Loan amount has been disbursed
    for subloans to final beneficiaries.

                                  D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and Financial Analyses
Not applicable.

2. Technical
Not applicable.

3. Fiduciary
Lending will be through an IBRD APL. The Bank's standard fiduciary requirements will apply
to the project and financial intermediaries. Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for Procurement and for the Use of Consulting Services.

An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement actions
for the project was carried out by Procurement Accredited Specialist (PAS) assigned to the
project during appraisal in February 2006. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure
for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance.           The
assessment showed that the PMU had gained adequate experience during the preparation of the
Project to enable it to efficiently carry out the necessary actions and activities to ensure smooth
procurement during Project implementation. It was found that no additional training would be
necessary. Where the Procurement Staff did not have the adequate expertise to carry out
procurement effectively (e.g. Procurement of IT technologies) it is recommended to use the
services of short term specialists. The structure of the proposed Project is such that it is not
necessary that any additional full-time staff be hired.

With the exception of the Credit Line, all procurement activities will be undertaken using the
Bank's current (May 2004) edition of the Procurement and Consultant's Guidelines. Procurement
under the Credit line will be undertaken using established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank subject to a maximum of US$2 million per contract. These procurements will be carried
out directly by the Beneficiaries and will not involve the PMU.




                                                  17

Based on the financial management assessment of PMU, the financial management arrangements
of the PMU and acceptable and satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements in accordance with
OP/BP 10.02.
The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Ukraine confirms that
improvement is required in the management of public expenditures, especially for the
strengthening of internal and external audits.

Annual audited financial statements of the project accounts would be provided to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The
project would produce a full set of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) every three months
throughout the life of the project.

Annex 7 and Annex 8 present detailed financial management and procurement arrangements
under the proposed project.

4. Social
The project will have no negative social impact. Proposed investments involving issues of land
acquisition, involuntary resettlement, and possible negative impact on cultural properties,
indigenous peoples, or disputed areas are not eligible for financing under the Project. A Social
Assessment was carried out to explore the current perceived need for rural credit and related
issues, especially among RSMEs, agricultural enterprises and rural entrepreneurs.                             The
assessment found that the demand for rural credit to meet diverse needs was strong among all
farm sizes and businesses. Drawing from the Social Assessment, the key social development
outcomes would be: (a) improved access to reliable financial services by RSMEs; and (b)
increased integration of RSMEs into the market economy.

5. Environment
The Project is classified as a Category "FI". Environmental Assessment policies (OP/BP 4.01)
will apply to the AFSP, including sub-projects.                   In June 2002, the Bank conducted an
Environment Assessment (EA) for Subcomponent A1 of Component A (credit line) to identify
the potential environmental impact from financing agricultural and RSMEs sub-projects. It was
identified that potential sub-loans were not expected to produce any major environmental
impact).17 Given the focus of this project and scope of the sub-projects, it is expected that the
vast majority of sub-projects would fall into Category C.

PB loan officers will review the potential environmental impacts of proposed sub-projects to
ensure their compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and with Bank
environmental safeguard policies. Loan officers will not be environmental specialists, but with
the assistance of an Environmental Guidelines Manual that was prepared, published and
disseminated in June 2003 in English and Ukrainian (updated in February 2006), they will be
able to judge whether or not a particular sub-project would need an environmental assessment
(EA)18 In addition, provision will be included in the project for an environmental specialist to
advise and provide training, if needed, for PMU staff and PBs, to ensure that the environmental


17Copy of the environmental review is included in the project files.
18Environmental screening guidelines, developed during project preparation, are incorporated in the Operations
Manual to be used during project implementation to assist PB loan officers


                                                        18

screening of proposed sub-projects is carried out effectively. The PMU will be responsible for
verifying compliance with these requirements, as part of its project monitoring role. Ex ante
review and clearance by the Bank will be required for any sub-project under Category A of the
Bank guidelines.         During project supervision, the Bank will verify that the environmental
screening of sub-projects is carried out satisfactorily. Annex 10 provides further details.

6. Safeguard Policies
  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                                Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                   [X]                      [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                              [ ]                     [X]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                  [X]                      []
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                    [ ]                     [X]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                      [ ]                     [X]
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                     [ ]                     [X]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                     [X]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [ ]                     [X]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [ ]                     [X]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                        [ ]                     [X]
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
No policy exception is needed for the project. The project is ready for implementation, taking
into account preparation support provided from the PPF.




                                                              19

                               Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                 UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

1.      Ukraine, a large central European country of about 48 million people, has a well-
educated, highly skilled labor force.19 An estimated 68 percent of the population lives in urban
areas. Traditionally Ukraine was known as the bread basket of the Soviet Union, however the
contribution of agriculture to GDP has dropped significantly and at the end of 2004 accounted
for only 10.8 percent of GDP. According to the preliminary 2005 results, the share of agriculture
remained at less than 11.5 percent of GDP. Nonetheless, this sector has great potential for
development and a strong need for investment.

2.      Following the Presidential elections at end 2004, the Government launched an ambitious
economic reform agenda, to increase efficiency of the public service, fight corruption, reduce the
shadow economy and enhance public governance and accountability, with the overarching
objective of EU accession. The 2004-2007 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), updated in July
2005, confirms the Bank's support of the Government's reform agenda and its aspirations to join
the EU by facilitating institutional developments that can lead to a business friendly environment
and a more inclusive and responsive government.                     The CAS is built around seven broad
objectives, including (a) sustainable economic growth with particular emphasis on the
environment for private sector development; (b) poverty reduction and strengthening of the
middle class; and (c) reducing regional imbalances. The proposed project will contribute to
these objectives by providing resources to stimulate the growth of RSMEs and improve the
environment for investment borrowing by SNGs.

Financial Sector

3.      Ukraine's financial sector grew significantly during 2004-2005 to almost 57 percent of
GDP. However it is still dominated by the banking sector which accounts for more than 85
percent of total financial sector assets. The insurance industry is small but dynamic. The
amount of premiums collected, predominantly for non-life insurance, doubled in 2003 and by the
end-2004 reached 5.7 percent of GDP. This percentage dropped to about 5 percent of GDP,
triggered mainly by the strengthening of the prudential regulation aimed at prevention of tax
evasion schemes and capital outflow.                Other non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) are
underdeveloped, compared to most of the neighboring countries in Central Europe, and account
for less than 1 percent of GDP. The securities market capitalization grew to almost 40 percent of
GDP by the end of 2005. However, the market remains small, fragmented and largely non-
transparent, despite the recent strengthening of securities legislation (passage of the new Law on
Securities and Stock Market) and adoption of the Corporate Governance Code in 2003.
Although there is a strong demand for the services of leasing companies, credit unions and
insurance companies, especially in rural areas and among agricultural producers, the NBFI
services are often underdeveloped and more expensive than banking products.                             While the
legislation for NBFIs is mostly in place, it is often deficient and requires further strengthening
and harmonization.



19Ukraine is divided into 26 regions, with two cities with special status (Kyiv and Sevastopol) and the Autonomous
Republic of Crimea.


                                                         20

4.      Banking Sector. After the fiscal distress of 1998, the banking sector rapidly expanded,
increasing more than 4 times during 2002-2005. Total assets grew from UAH 50.7 billion in
January 2002 to more than UAH 223 billion at the end of 2005, which represents almost 53
percent of GDP. The Ukrainian banking sector has recovered from the end 2004 liquidity crunch,
triggered by the speculation about the vulnerability of the banking system in the midst of the
Orange revolution. In November-December 2004, NBU injected UAH 5.8 billion (5 percent of
the deposit base) into the system to avoid a systemic crisis.20 This mitigated the consequences of
the ceased operations in the interbank market. As a result of the effective measures taken by the
NBU, by early December, the market was functioning, albeit at high overnight interest rates of
20 percent or more for prime banks that had previously borrowed overnight at 5 percent or less
(see Figure 1). By mid-January, market rates had returned to normal, and confidence in the
banking sector was reestablished, as evidenced by the growth in deposits. Corporate and
household deposits reached UAH 133.7 billion (US$26 billion), showing more than 64 percent
growth of deposits in 2005.

             Table 1: Selected Information on the Ukrainian Banking System, 2002-2005
                                                                   2002  2003  2004  2005
            Number of operating banks                              157   157   160   165
            Total assets (UAH billions)                            67.8 100.2 141.4  223
            Total assets as a % of GDP                             30.0  37.5  41.0  52.7
            Net bank assets (adjusted for LLP) as a % of GDP      28.29 38.13  38.9  50.3
            Liabilities, $ bln.                                   11.59 21.40 19.25  42.2
            Equity, $ bln.                                         1.57  2.10  3.14  5.04
            Net profit, $ bln.                                     0.12  0.13  0.22  0.43
            Nominal Growth Rates of Net Banking Assets (%)         34.3  56.9 34.03 59.19
            Loans as % of total assets                               69    70    70  70.1
            Lending to enterprises as % of total lending             82    79    77  69.7
            Lending to private sector, % of GDP                    19.3  26.8  25.6  36.8
            Liquid Assets to Net Assets (percent)                  14.2  16.0  15.2 16.36
            Regulatory Capital to Net Assets (percent)             15.8  13.2 13.53  12.3
            Capital Adequacy Ratio (according to NBU regulations) 18.01 15.11 16.81 14.95
            Loan Loss Provisions to Loans (%)                      7.65  6.31  6.55  5.32
            Net Interest Margin                                       6  5.78   4.9   4.9
            Interest Spread                                         7.2  6.97  5.72  5.78
            Return on Equity (%)                                   7.98  7.61  8.43 10.39
                Source: National Bank of Ukraine

5.      The ten largest banks account for 53.8 percent of total banking sector assets, about 56
percent of total deposits and 43 percent of total capital (Table 2 below). Twenty-seven banks
account for 75.3 percent of the total assets and 77.5 percent of total deposits of the banking
sector. The remaining 138 banks are small and often regarded as "pocket-banks" which serve the
needs of related business groups. The average asset size of a bank increased from US$140
million in 2004 to almost US$268 million in 2005. However Ukrainian banks are still small and
underdeveloped in terms of services and technologies as compared to the leading international
banks. Two banks­Savings (Oschadny) bank and Ukrexim bank­are 100 percent state owned but
have only 9.3 percent share in total banking sector assets.




20Possible because of a high level of international reserves.


                                                          21

                   Table 2: Selected data on the ten largest banks and the banking system
                                     (in UAH million) (January 1, 2006)

                                      Share             Share                                                      Shar
                                                          in              Share    Liabili Share                   e in
 TOTAL FOR THE SYSTEM           Net     in       Net             Deposi   in total         in total  Equity Total
                               Assets  total    Loans   total       ts    deposit   ties   liabiliti (SF)   Equity total

                                      assets             net                       Total                           equit
                                                        loans                s                es                    y
    Banking sector year end
    2005                       213878  100     142277    100     147094    100     188427    100     16144  25451  100

 1. GROUP OF 10 LARGEST BANKS
 1   Pryvatbank                22058  10.3%     16096   11.3%    16891    11.5%    19786   10.5%     1130   2272   9%

 2   Aval bank                 19259   9.0%     12730   8.9%     15167    10.3%    17513    9.3%     1499   1745   7%

 3   Prominvestbank            14590   6.8%     11308   7.9%     12927     8.8%    13222    7.0%      200   1368   5%

 4   Ukrsotsbank               10763   5.0%     7252    5.1%      8349     5.7%     9735    5.2%      70    1027   4%

 5   Ukrsibbank                10669   5.0%     7864    5.5%      5528     3.8%     9721    5.2%      750    947   4%

 6   Ukreximbank (State
     Export-Import Bank)       10376   4.9%     7401    5.2%      5154     3.5%     9309    4.9%      744   1067   4%

 7   Oshchadbank (State
     Savings Bank)              9515   4.4%     1998    1.4%      8283     5.6%     8740    4.6%      703    775   3%

 8   Raiffeisenbank Ukraina     7049   3.3%     6018    4.2%      3449     2.3%     6422    3.4%      519    626   2%

 9   Nadra bank                 5922   2.8%     4298    3.0%      3411     2.3%     5371    2.9%      240    551   2%

 10  Brokbusinessbank           4769   2.2%     2816    2.0%      3400     2.3%     4162    2.2%      350    606   2%

                       TOTAL   114970 53.8%     47118   53.4%    82559    56.1%    103981  55.2%     6205   10984  42%


6.       In the second half of 2005 and early 2006, the banking sector saw an active entry of
reputable foreign banks that changed the market landscape and increased competition among the
leading local banks. At end-2005, there were 23 banks with foreign capital, including 9 fully
foreign-owned banks. By May 2006, the share of foreign banks more than doubled to reportedly
more than 25 percent, compared to 11.5 percent at the end of 2004.

                  Table 3. Largest Acquisitions of Ukrainian Banks by Foreign Investors in 2005-2006
                    Bank               % of shares           Foreign buyer                Country
                                           sold

                    Aval                   93.5             Raiffeisen Group               Austria
                    Ukrsotsbank            85.4               Intesa Group                  Italy
                    Ukrsibbank              51               BNP-Paribas                   France
                    Mriya                   98               Vneshtorgbank                 Russia
                    Index                   98              Credit Agricole                France
                    Agio                    98              Vilnusbanka-SEB               Sweden


7.       However, despite the reestablished public confidence in the banking sector and recovery
of the deposit base, Ukrainian banks are still susceptible to liquidity shocks and lack longer term
financing to support medium to longer term investment projects. Rapid development of the
housing finance market and increased investment needs of the Ukrainian enterprises
(metallurgical, manufacturing, chemical and agro-processing) pushed many Ukrainian banks to
the international credit markets. In 2004-2006, several leading Ukrainian banks (Pryvatbank,
UkrEximbank, UkrSibbank) placed almost US$ 800 million in euro bonds.

8.       Financial Sector Regulation. The Laws on National Bank of Ukraine and on Banks and
Banking were passed in 2000 and 2001, respectively. The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) is
responsible for the regulation of the banking sector. Regulations have been developed over the


                                                        22

last decade and are considered to be relatively modern and comprehensive, albeit with certain
important gaps. These concern mainly transparency of ownership, corporate governance,
classification of assets and hence related lending. However, as is common in most reforming
economies, enforcement needs to be substantially strengthened. The NBU is aware of the need
to further strengthen banking supervision and is upgrading its capacity and legal framework with
TA from the Bank and the IMF as well as from other bilateral and multilateral institutions (US
Treasury, Dutch and French Central banks and EU TACIS).

9.       Banks are regulated and supervised by the Banking Supervision Department (BSD) of the
NBU. Following the 1997 reform of BSD supported by the Bank-supported FSAL project,
NBU's supervisory capacity has been significantly strengthened, legislation streamlined and the
quality of regulations improved. According to the 2002 FSAP findings, Ukraine fully or
materially complied with 16 Basle Core Principles. Between 2003-2005, NBU has undertaken a
number of steps aimed at enhancing quality of banks' reporting and external auditing, disclosure
of information, capitalization and risks management. It is currently preparing a Supervisory
Development Plan (SDP) that will outline actions to be taken to move towards risk-based
supervision and gradual introduction of Basle II requirements. In addition, NBU has submitted to
Parliament amendments to the Law on Banks and Banking aimed at improving corporate
governance of banks, disclosure of information by beneficial/real owners of banks, enforcement
of limitations on insider and related party lending, consolidated reporting and supervision,
improved resolution of problem banks.

10.      The Non-bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs) are regulated by the State Securities
Commission or the State Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets (SCRFSM).
The SCRFSM, which was established following the April 2003 Law on Financial Services and
State Regulation of Financial Services Markets, covers insurers, credit unions, non-Government
pension funds, financial leasing and factoring companies, pawnshops, and other financial
institutions. Efforts are needed to ensure that the SCRFSM, as a new institution, has adequate,
skills, funding and legal powers to carry out its mandate in regulating NBFIs.

11.      Leasing. Despite the high demand for capital investments and the need for replacement
of obsolete fixed assets, the leasing industry is seriously underdeveloped. Total lease revenues,
in 2004, were estimated at about 1 percent or less of GDP. Only 20 (including 3 state-owned
companies) of the 40 registered leasing companies are operating. Many leasing companies are
in-house, functioning more as captive finance companies dependent on the cash flow of the
enterprise (or enterprises) they serve. In addition commercial banks have created companies
which mainly provide operating leases on assets they have repossessed. Foreign investors have
recently demonstrated interest in the leasing industry in Ukraine.

12.      Because of deficient legislation, lack of long-term financing and limited knowledge of
service providers, leasing activities focused on installment or deferred sales arrangements rather
than conventional financial leasing. The market for operating leases (mostly for vehicles,




                                                  23

printing, electronics, and some agro-processing equipment) is limited. Financial leases21 were
impractical because of long depreciation schedules and an onerous tax burden.

13.      A revised Law on Financial Leasing, passed in 2004, addressed some of the problems. It
was designed to provide improved terms for financial lease contracts, including changes in
depreciation schedules and contract duration, and thus stimulate the development of a financial
leasing market. Despite these improvements, implementation could be hampered by unfavorable
tax legislation, lack of knowledge, high transaction costs, lack of access to capital markets and,
therefore, uncompetitive cost of funds compared to cheaper bank loans.                           In addition, the
continued presence of the three state leasing companies along with the ambiguous and
discriminatory tax legislation faced by leasing companies relative to banks and insurance
companies could stunt growth in this sector.                 Problems associated with lessor rights and
foreclosure could also hamper the development of the leasing market.22

14.      Credit Unions. According to estimates by the SCRFSM, more than 1000 CUs have been
created in Ukraine since the early 1990s, of which 709 were registered by the SCRFSM as of
October 2006. CUs remain small with estimated total assets of UAH 1.59 billion and more than
1 million members. While the assets of the CUs almost tripled during 2004-2005, this market
still represents only 0.7 percent of banking sector assets. With the exception of the two largest
CUs, the average size of a CU in terms of assets varies between UAH 300,000 to UAH 1 million
(US$60,000 to US$200,000 respectively). The Law on Credit Unions does not allow CUs to
engage in lending to corporate clients, thus CUs operate only with individuals (households and
private entrepreneurs and farmers). Most credit unions are active with consumer and housing
financing in urban areas and CUs cater to the needs of small retail savers and borrowers. Access
to CUs of businessmen and farmers in rural areas is often limited due to the high cost of CU
funds, lack of skills and competition among CUs. As a result, loans to entrepreneurs and farmers
are less than 25-30 percent of the total CUs' credit portfolio.

15.      In recent years, CUs have faced increasing competition from commercial banks. This has
led to an initiative to expand the activities of the CUs to allow them to lend to corporate clients
as well as take deposits from non-members. However, this reform is pending, owing to limited
skills and capacity of CUs in the area of corporate lending, risk and liquidity management.

16.      The market is undergoing significant reconfiguration. A National Credit Union
Association (NACSU) was established in 1995 and has more than 140 member CUs with a total
membership of over 130,000. It monitors and self regulates the performance of its members.
However, NACSU is dominated by, and caters mainly to, a number of large credit unions which
are more retail oriented. This has led to the formation (largely by rural CUs) of 16 regional
credit union associations. There is a need for NACSU to revise its membership and voting

21 The fundamental differences between an operating and financial lease are the treatment of ownership and
depreciation. Most financial leases include an option to purchase and, generally, the lessee can deduct depreciation
for tax purposes.
22An IFC 2003 leasing industry analysis identified several problems preventing leasing from becoming a viable
financing instrument, including: (a) complicated and lengthy process to repossess assets; (b) ambiguous laws and
regulations which invite bureaucratic discretion and, thus, uncertainty; and (c) tax rules that makes depreciation of
leased assets longer than their normal economic life, and thus implies excessive taxation. IFC is expected to provide
technical assistance to help address some of the shortcomings.


                                                         24

structure and to strengthen its corporate governance so that it can better serve the needs on a
countrywide basis, including rural areas. Two other national associations have been created
more recently but are not yet fully operational.

17.      CU Legal and Supervisory Framework. The Law on Credit Unions, enacted in January
2002, defines credit unions as nonprofit, cooperative organizations.23                 The law introduces
regulatory requirements for CUs and, together with the 2001 Law on Financial Services and
State Regulation of Financial Services Markets, mandates their regulation and prudential
supervision by SCRFSM. Creation of a CU requires minimum 50 members. The same applies for
the creation of a cooperative bank. The minimum statutory capital requirement for a bank is
Euro 1 million for a regional cooperative bank and Euro 5 million for a nationwide cooperative
bank. So far, no cooperative bank has been established by the CU community, despite several
attempts. Credit unions have established the Central Credit Union (CCU) which could be treated
as a bank of credit unions. However, the CCU does not have a banking license and provides
basic finance for the CUs which are members of NACSU. Other CUs plan to create an
alternative CCU. However, its further operations will be constrained unless respective changes
are introduced to both the Law on Credit Unions and Law on Banks and Banking Activity in
Ukraine.

18.      Housing finance. This market has grown rapidly in the last several years and has
substantial potential for further development. Until 2005, most housing construction, primarily
in Kyiv, was financed by bank "Arkada" and/or outside the banking system (on an equity basis
or through contractual investment schemes). Some programs (such as provision of housing for
young families, military and civil servants) was and, on a limited basis is still, supported by the
Government. In 2005, mortgage financing increased almost 3.5 times and reached 2.5 percent of
GDP. The share of residential housing finance increased to 1.6 percent of GDP from 0.6 percent
in 2004. More commercial banks launched mortgage lending, while the core thirteen banks
control 78 percent of the residential housing mortgage financing market.

19.      The Law on Mortgage, drafted with assistance from the PPF, became effective on
January 1, 2004. It conforms with modern international standards and is one of the most liberal
and progressive in the region. For the market to realize the positive impact of this law, more
work needs to be undertaken to ensure its harmonization with other legislation. To allow
mortgage refinancing and develop mortgage bonds market, in December 2005 the Parliament of
Ukraine passed the Law on Mortgage Bonds as was recommended by the Bank, IFC and other
Donors (EBRD, USAID, EU TACIS). While this law has several weaknesses, it establishes a
basic framework for the issue and circulation of conventional covered (mortgage) bonds and
allows securitization of mortgage assets. The implementation of the law will require significant
effort of the Ukrainian regulators, especially the State Commission for Securities and Stock
Market, to put proper regulations in place to ensure compliance with the legal requirements by
the bonds' issuers, including disclosure of information to potential buyers of the mortgage bonds.




23The Law requires that CUs have at least 50 members who share a common feature, such as the same workplace or
place of residence. CUs may offer services only to members and loans typically range from US$20 to US$3,000.
No loan can exceed 20 percent of the CUs' total capital.


                                                        25

20.      To support liquidity of the mortgage market and provide refinancing to banks, in
November 2004, the Government established the State Mortgage Institution (SMI) with a
statutory capital of UAH 20 million. In 2005, the Parliament approved an increase of SMI's
capital to UAH 100 million.

21.      The SMI is expected to operate initially as a liquidity facility, with potential future
expansion of its services once it has developed adequate management, skills and procedures.
Substantial support will be needed to ensure that government housing policies do not undermine
market practices and that the SMI operates in accordance with prudent financial practices. This
would require that the Government reconsider its proposed strategy for subsidized mortgage
finance to ensure that it does not distort the market. The Bank has provided extensive advice to
the Government on the issues of SMI operations, including the pre-conditions for the use of the
state guarantee to support the issue of SMI's bonds. The policy dialogue and appropriate
conditionality is being conducted under the Development Policy Loan (DPL) series. Any support
to be provided under the project will be consistent with this dialogue.

Enabling Infrastructure

22.      Ukraine has made progress in strengthening its financial sector framework. In addition to
the financial sector legislation mentioned above, a number of laws have been enacted to help
protect creditors' rights, as well as to further develop the financial market and its contribution to
private sector growth. Law on Real Estate Title and Registration of Land (2004), Law on
Mortgage (2003), Law on Warehouse Receipts (2004). However, as in many other transition
economies, implementation of the laws is weak and enforcement is often hampered by
deficiencies in the operations the legal and judicial systems.

23.      Registration of Charges. Following passage of the 1999 Law on Pledge, the Register of
private pledges was established. It is maintained by the Information Center of the Ministry of
Justice and operated by independent registrars (predominantly commercial banks and notaries).
Law on Security of Creditors Rights and Registration of Charges, passed in 2003, removes the
inequality between public and private creditors and introduces the principle of "first-come, first-
served" in establishing security interests. Public pledges (mainly those established by the State
Tax Administration) were introduced to the Register in 2002. The Register will be expanded to
accommodate the change in the law and to allow the registration of new types of assets covered
by the law.24 The Information Center of the Ministry of Justice is committed to upgrade the
Register and promote establishment of the necessary revised registration procedures.

24.      Credit Information Bureau. NBU maintains a register of the largest non-performing
borrowers but this does not fully meet the needs of the financial sector. To address this need,
following the passage of the Law on Organizing of Information and Circulation of Credit
Histories in 2004, the banking community, with the support of the NBU, decided to establish the
First All-Ukrainian Credit Information Bureau (FAUCIB) in mid-2005. Almost 30 banks and


24Assets such as livestock, machinery, and standing crops are not yet widely used as collateral because of the
continued weaknesses in application of or gaps in the existing legal framework for the creation, registration,
enforcement of secured interests in movable property, and the lack of a viable resale market for repossessed assets.
In addition, lenders are hesitant to lend against collateral such as receivables and inventory.


                                                             26

several insurance companies are shareholders of the FAUCIB. This entity is expected to collect
both positive and negative credit histories on indebtedness of borrowers, including individuals
and SMEs, in line with the EU Directive on Protection of Personal Information and in
accordance with the best international practices. It expects to cover the needs of about 60 percent
of the banking market and insurance sector. Recently, FAUCIB has announced a tender for the
selection of a business and investment partner from among the leading international credit
bureaus. Another two credit bureaus were established recently in Ukraine, but none of them is
yet operational.

Target Beneficiaries

25.     Rural Small and Medium Enterprises. SMEs25 contribute significantly to employment
and GDP, and provide the only employment and income source to many poor households.
Attention to their development is therefore essential for economic growth and poverty reduction.
The share of the SME sector in Ukraine's GDP is only 8 percent but it employs 21 percent of the
labor force (Table 5 shows some comparator countries). At the lower end of SME sector is a
mixture of the self-employed and "micro" enterprises, with less than 10 employees. A significant
proportion of these enterprises are found in the informal sector.

       Table 5: SME Indicators in Selected Countries (Excluding Entrepreneurs with No Employees)
                                             Ukraine1   Russia2    Kazakhstan    4   France5         Italy5
                   Indicators
                                               2003       2002         2003            2004           2004
    Population Employed in SMEs (%)            21%        20%           7%             57%            71%
    SME Contribution to GDP (%)                 8%        11%          13%             50%            55%
    1Statistics Directorate; Russian SME Support Agency; Ministry of Statistics and Analysis of Belarus
                            2                             3

    4Based on Statistics Agency of Kazakhstan data; Fifth All-Russian Conference of Small Businesses, 2004
                                                   5



26.     The 2002 reform of state collective farms resulted in reorganization and/or liquidation of
almost 15,000 large public agricultural production enterprises. This led to the creation of about
45,000 new farmer enterprises and growth of rural SMEs. Many of these new enterprises
required significant capital to be able to purchase production equipment and replace obsolete
machinery, and as a result create employment opportunities for hundreds thousands of rural
citizens who have lost their job in the process of the state farms reform. Overall limited access
to credit of the newly established enterprises has significantly hampered the performance and
growth of the RSMEs.

27.     About 5.6 million people are employed in the agricultural sector, representing almost 20
percent of the labor force of Ukraine. Agricultural production contributes to nearly 12 percent of
GDP. Almost 60 percent of agricultural production is attributed to households, and the remaining
40 percent is produced by the agricultural enterprises.




25In Ukraine, SMEs are enterprises with 11-250 employees. At the lower end, is a mixture of the self-employed and
"micro" enterprises, with less than 10 employees.



                                                     27

28.     As agriculture and the rural                Box 2: Risk management systems for agricultural lending
economy      make      up    a     significant
proportion of GDP, addressing the                   One of the main obstacles for increased rural lending is lack of
                                                    financial and insurance products that can be used to mitigate the
impediments to the growth of the sector             investment and lending risks in agriculture or rural areas and thus
is high on the Government's reform                  reduce the cost of borrowing for rural clients. Such instruments can
agenda.26 To address their needs, the               include, but are not limited to, various insurance and guarantee
                                                    products, commodity derivatives and warehouse receipts.
Government of Ukraine has developed
the concept of the Comprehensive                    In 2004, despite the passage of the Law on warehouse receipts and
Program to Support Development of                   some limited experience with grain warehouse receipts, the system of
                                                    warehouse receipts remains undeveloped for several reasons. These
Ukrainian Rural Areas for the period of             include poor quality of warehouses, deficiencies in warehouse
2006-2010.      Inter alia, the program             licensing procedures and circulation of receipts, unawareness of
foresees a number of reform measures                lenders and borrowers of the advantages in using warehouse receipts to
                                                    protect their interests.
aimed at strengthening the financial
intermediation capacity of Ukrainian                Development of new insurance products requires significant legal,
banks and development of NBFIs to                   regulatory and institutional reforms, in the insurance sector as well as
                                                    agricultural subsidies schemes. Many agricultural enterprises are
expand their services for the rural                 entitled to a state subsidy to cover the cost of premiums paid for
population and businesses. To support               mandatory insurance. This practice discourages the introduction of
development of newly created farms                  new, non- compulsory agro-risks insurance products, such as weather
                                                    index insurance, as they are not covered by subsidies.
and private agricultural enterprises, the
Government passed several new laws and amended existing acts to establish a more conducive
environment for the development of agricultural business. This legislation includes a law on
warehouse receipts, special tax treatment of agricultural producers and private entrepreneurs
(including single tax for SMEs), compensations for cattle-farmers. The Government also
envisages reforms aimed at harmonization of Ukrainian legislation with WTO requirements.

29.     Sub-national Governments. The 1997 "Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine"
developed the organizational and legal basis for local governments (including division of
functions for each level of government), and established the legal basis for SNG borrowing
(Figure 6 shows the various types of SNGs). The Budget Code of Ukraine (2001), drafted with
the assistance from the PPF, establishes the basis for a formula driven intergovernmental transfer
system and significantly clarifies revenue sources and functions for each level of government.
When introduced, this formula, together with the elimination of soft inter-budgetary loans,
should represent a significant step towards more objective and transparent rules for local
government financing.

30.     While there is a basic framework in place, the legal framework for SGN borrowing and
SGN debt remains dispersed and, in some instances, internally inconsistent. Although almost all
SNGS have enormous investment needs to upgrade infrastructure and services, under current
legislation, only the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (ARC), the municipal governments of
major cities (and their municipal utilities with a guarantee from their respective municipality to
borrow) are allowed to have a capital budget deficit. Thus, other SNGs (oblasts, rayons, town,
villages and settlements) cannot borrow, except to cover current budget cash gaps.




26Ukraine's agricultural potential is significantly underutilized. Investment in agriculture as a percentage of total
investment declined sharply during the 1990's, from 21.3 percent in 1990 to 2.1 percent in 2002.


                                                          28

                          Figure 6: Administrative-Territorial Structure of Ukraine

                                       City of         Oblasts (24)
                       ARC            Sevastopol                       City of Kyiv



                                              Cities of             Rayons
                                               Oblasts              (490)
                                                (176)



                                                 Towns              Villages       Settlements
                                                 (314)              (28,651)         (893)




31.     Deficiencies in the legal framework combined with the negative experience of a default
by the city of Odessa on bonds it issued in 1998 reduce the willingness of the private sector to
lend to SNGs. Private sector credit is limited to the largest SNGs in the country, and with short
terms and high rates of real interest. Nonetheless, a group of large banks in the country are
beginning to expand their lending, primarily to the utility companies27 against physical collateral
and with the guarantee of the municipality that owns them.

32.     To improve access to finance for SNG, a number of steps need to be taken, including: (a)
passage of a comprehensive legislation for SNG debt and guarantees; (b) reassessment of
functions and their division among various levels of the government; (c) improving the formula-
based transfer system; and (d) establishing a modern debt monitoring system on the level of the
Central Government (in the Ministry of Finance) as well as SNGs.

Factors that Limit Access to Credit

33.     Constraints on both the supply and demand sides limit access to credit, especially by
RSMEs and SNGs. More effective intermediation would foster private sector development and
contribute to sustained economic growth. The most important constraints impeding access to
credit by RSMEs and SNGs include the following:

    (i)  Lack of long-term funding. Banks do not have access to long-term funds and the bulk of
        their liabilities are demand deposits. Short-term lending (3-6 months) accounts for 70
        percent of banks' aggregate loan portfolio and almost all loans with maturities of more
        than one year are financed by international sources.
    (ii) Banks have high operating costs. This translates into high margins and lending rates.
        The high rates could lead to adverse selection by becoming too expensive for sound
        enterprises to borrow, so that most lending is made for riskier undertakings/borrowers.
        This could in turn lead to a poor quality loan portfolio and high provisions, causing a


27Municipal utilities are defined in the law "On Local Governments of Ukraine" as municipal utility companies
owned by the community they serve. These companies face the same access to investment capital issues as RSMEs
and SNGs.


                                                       29

     vicious circle as banks will reflect their increase costs in higher margins. The high cost
     and short maturity of loans discourage potential borrowers from applying for loans.
(iii) Credit underwriting skills are underdeveloped. Banks have not invested in developing
     the systems required to serve retail clients. The banks to date have focused largely on
     relationship lending, making decisions on the basis of direct contacts and knowledge of
     the borrower, which in many cases may have a controlling interest in the lending bank.
     In particular, banks make little use of transaction-based lending technologies such as:
     financial statement lending, small business credit scoring, asset-based lending, factoring
     and leasing.
(iv) Weak lending infrastructure, particularly lack of information on the repayment history
     of borrowers and poor accounting and auditing practices. The financial infrastructure is
     insufficiently developed to aid financial intermediaries in their assessment and
     mitigation of risk, for example, inadequate information on the repayment history of
     borrowers (through well functioning credit bureaus, credit rating agencies and secured
     transactions registry for movable property).        The financial position of potential
     borrowers, especially in rural areas, is difficult to ascertain due to unreliable financial
     reporting (financial statements are prepared primarily for tax purposes and are not
     consistent with International Standards of Financial Reporting - IFRS).
(v) An inadequate legal and judicial framework provides weak protection of creditors'
     rights resulting in excessive requirements for collateral (that makes it difficult for SMEs
     to borrow) and a costly dispute resolution process that increases the cost of lending.
(vi) Banks have underdeveloped branch networks. The absence of local branches and lack
     of availability of information on clients outside main urban areas make creditworthiness
     more difficult to assess and hence lending more costly. An increased presence of the
     larger banks throughout the country could increase lending to RSMEs and SNGs.
(vii) Lending to SNGs presents additional constraints and risks. With the exception of short-
     term borrowing for budget deficit financing, there is no significant local government
     borrowing outside Kyiv. This situation hinders the ability of the central government to
     decentralize important parts of local public service delivery. Furthermore, lack of
     access to financial services limits the provision and coverage of local services that SNGs
     provide, since they are unable to finance the capital costs required to upgrade or expand
     infrastructure networks. Lack of a SNG credit market, in short, is preventing the
     development of a public finance system that assigns significant decision-making power
     and financing responsibility to SNGs. The existing legal framework for SNG borrowing
     does not comprehensively and consistently address the issues related to SNG debt.
     Relevant rules are largely indirect, scattered among various laws, decrees and
     regulations or established on an informal basis.          In several instances, they are
     inconsistent, incomplete or ambiguous, further exacerbating the legal uncertainty for
     SNG lending.
(viii)The size and presence of non-bank lenders is negligible. Non-bank intermediation, such
     as through leasing companies and credit unions, is low due mainly to the lack of an
     appropriate legal framework.




                                              30

Government Strategy for Improving Access to Credit

34.     The Ukrainian authorities have designed a program aimed at increasing overall access to
credit markets with special focus on RMSEs and SNGs, which are located at the fringes of the
financial sector. The strategy is predicated on the idea that credit markets must be built in two
directions. First from the top down, in terms of a legal and policy framework that will support
efficient credit market operations. And second from the bottom up, in terms of practical
experience for banks and other lenders in making loans to the clienteles with limited access
today. Both tracks, namely building a supportive legal and policy framework and accumulating
practical experience in RSMEs and SNGs lending are envisioned to move forward
simultaneously under the program.

35.     The following will be the public policy intervention supported by the program: (a)
assisting the banking sector to develop the capacity to provide retail financial services, in order
to reduce the transaction costs gap between lenders and potential borrowers; (b) enhancing the
protection of creditors rights to lessen the risk of lending to potential borrowers; (c) building the
credit market infrastructure and new financial products to make credit transactions more
attractive to both borrowers and lenders; (d) providing technical assistance to SNGs aimed at
preparing bankable credit proposals and business plans; and (d) making available a
comparatively modest amount of well-targeted and properly priced long term credit funds to
trigger implementation of the program and promote rapid market take up of the opportunities
thereby created.

36.     To bring about this new vision, the Government strategy includes:

         ·   Providing banks access to long-term resources for on-lending to RSMEs and SNGs.
         ·   Assisting financial intermediaries expand their network of branches in rural areas
             and acquire the lending technologies suitable for lending to RSMEs and SNGs.
         ·   Upgrading the lending infrastructure (policy, legal, regulatory and institutional) to
             stimulate the development of the financial services market.




                                                  31

                                                                           Attachment to Annex 1

                                     Unofficial Translation

Mr. Shigeo Katsu
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
The World Bank
Washington, DC

Dear Mr. Katsu,

                Re: Access to Financial Services Adaptable Program Loan (APL)

        On behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I am pleased to use this opportunity to brief
you about Ukraine's continuing successful economic development, and commitment to
implementing programs which will ensure sustainable economic growth with emphasis on
private sector development, strengthening of the middle class, reducing regional imbalances, and
poverty reduction. We believe a key contributing factor to achieving the above objectives is
improving access to financial services particularly in the rural areas of Ukraine.

        Ukraine enjoyed high rates of economic growth in the recent past. Improved financial
discipline, more prudent fiscal and monetary policies and improvement of the business climate,
have all contributed to this good performance. The good fortunes, however, have been mainly
concentrated in large financial-industrial groups able to take advantage of growth opportunities
in the export market due to their integration with the banking sector. In contrast, rural and small
and medium enterprises (RSMEs) have had limited access to credit, restricting the extent to
which they have been able to benefit from increasing domestic and export market opportunities.
Similarly, sub-national governments (SNGs) and utilities, have had limited access to long-term
funds to meet their capital investment needs.

        The development of rural finance has been a key priority for consecutive governments of
Ukraine. In this context, we have designed a program aimed at increasing overall access to
credit markets with special focus on RMSEs and SNGs. This strategy recognizes that to be
successful, legal, policy, and institutional environment/ framework need to be conducive to
efficient credit market operations. Additionally, under the program, given the current lack of
long-term financial resources, the Government is committed to helping jumpstart the process
through providing long-term funds at market rates to the banking community and other lenders to
engage with the above clients, with current limited access to credit, and gain expertise and
comfort in such transactions in the long term.

        Achievements to date, including those with the support of the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF), the Bank and the other donors

        In the course of implementation of the financial sector development strategy, with the
support of the Access to Financial Services PPF and with active involvement of the World Bank
experts, we have achieved important results to date towards establishment of the appropriate


                                                32

environment for increased financial intermediation in Ukraine. The most important of them are
briefly outlined below.

A. In the sphere of rural finance

        In December 2005 the Government of Ukraine adopted the Concept of the Complex
Program of Support for Development of Ukrainian Rural Areas for the period of 2006-2010. The
implementation of the Program shall be conducted through improvement of organizational and
economic mechanisms as well as enhancement of state support of rural development.

        The Program focuses on a number of crucial areas of rural finance and its implementation
envisages special efforts of the Government towards establishing conducive institutional and
legal framework for rural development. This include, for example, development of legislation
and new financial instruments aimed at (i) reduction of risks inherent to agribusiness finance and
promotion of efficient agribusiness development, (ii) establishment of modern warehouses
receipts system, (iii) risks-mitigation in lending to agribusinesses and use of modern hedging and
insurance instruments, including index insurance and mutual insurance products. The Program
specifies directions of financial and investment support for rural businesses, such as
improvement of tax regimes and tax policies for agriculture, reform of state support for rural
development and agricultural production in line with the best international practices and WTO
requirements. It also supports development of financial intermediaries (banks and non-bank
credit institutions, including credit cooperatives) and introduction of new financial instruments,
such as insurance for rural businesses.

B. In the sphere of mortgage finance

        Significant progress has been achieved in formulating the Government strategy and
creating basic legal framework for the development of mortgage finance market in recent years.
Specifically, the Law on Mortgage came into force on January 1, 2004. The Concept Paper for
development of Mortgage Finance Market was endorsed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine
in June 2004. With the support of the Access to Financial Services PPF the Government has
developed necessary documents and analysis that led to create the State Mortgage Institution
(SMI) ­ the 2nd tier mortgage finance intermediary aimed at providing refinancing to the primary
mortgage lenders, necessary to support their liquidity and promote housing finance in Ukraine.
Draft business plan and development strategy for the SMI were also developed within the Project
preparation. In addition, in December 2005 the Parliament of Ukraine has adopted the new Law
on Mortgage Bonds which came into force in 2006. The Law defines the legal framework for
issuance and circulation of mortgage bonds, as well as requirements for securitization of
mortgages. The Law also defines the requirements for disclosure of information, protection of
investors' rights and regulation of activities of the issuers of mortgage bonds.

        Establishment and development of an efficient and full-functioning system of mortgage
finance in Ukraine in conformity with the best international standards, is one of the priorities of
the Government`s economic policy. Operation of this system will foster solution of a number of
social and economic problems. Of 165 banks operating in Ukraine at the end of 2005, some 35
banks dominated mortgage finance market, with 13 of them controlling more than 78% of the
housing finance products. During the period of 2004-2005, mortgage financing increased



                                                   33

significantly. In 2005, it expanded 3.38 times and reached UAH 10.6 billion or 2.5% of GDP.
While the existing level of mortgage lending in Ukraine is much lower than in most developed
and Central European countries, the evolution of the mortgage finance market is promising.

        Despite the above developments, many factors could hamper the long-term sustainable
growth of mortgage financing in Ukraine, including:

    ·   inadequate and in some areas inconsistent legislative and regulatory framework in the
        sphere of mortgage financing;
    ·   ineffective system of refinancing of primary mortgage creditors;
    ·   maturities mismatch between assets and liabilities of commercial banks, stemming from
        the lack of access to long-term financial resources;
    ·   limited diversification of financial resources and their relatively high cost;
    ·   substantial credit, currency and interest rate risks of mortgage creditors;
    ·   absence of credit histories of borrowers and complexity in credit scoring and assessment
        of the creditworthiness of borrowers;
    ·   rapid growth of real estate housing prices and non-transparent distribution of land for
        housing construction that reduces the supply of housing for sale.

C. In the sphere of financial services in general

        The Government of Ukraine is undertaking large-scale efforts to reform and enhance the
financial services markets. Substantial progress has been achieved to date in development of the
banking sector and strengthening quality of banking supervision. In 2005, the assets of the
banking sector grew by about 60 percent and by the end of 2005 reached UAH 223 billion
(slightly more than US$44 billion). After 1998, Ukrainian banking sector rapidly expanded and
increased by more than 3.5 times during 2002-2005. Almost 71 percent of banks' assets are
invested into loans. Corporate and household deposits in banks reached UAH 133.7 billion
(US$26.5 billion) by the end of 2005, showing almost 65% growth in 2005 despite the run on
deposits at the end of 2004. Banks have significantly increased retail lending and the growing
presence of reputable foreign banks will provide additional impetus for expansion of banking
activities and increasing competition in the sector. Banking supervision department of the
National Bank of Ukraine has approved Supervisory Development Plan that envisions further
strengthening of banking legislation and regulation and gradual introduction of risks-based
supervision as well as Basle 2.

        To achieve broad objectives of financial sector reform, the Government of Ukraine has
recently commissioned preparation of the Financial Sector Development Strategy for 2006-2015.
The special working group was set up under the auspices of the State Commission for Regulation
of Financial Services Markets (the NBFI regulator), comprising of the representatives of the
financial regulation authorities of Ukraine, including NBFI regulator, National Bank of Ukraine
and Securities and Stock Market State Commission.

        Besides the recent initiative to prepare the comprehensive strategy for the development of
Ukraine's financial sector, the Government already adopted sector specific strategies and concept
documents in the spheres of insurance, pension system, stock markets, financial monitoring and
anti-money laundering. Specifically, in August 2005 the Government approved the Concept for


                                                  34

Development of Insurance Market for the period till 2010. The concept support a number of
objectives in development of insurance market, aimed at creating sound protection of property
interests of individuals and corporations, development of modern market mechanisms for
attracting investments into national economy, secured by efficient functioning of insurance
services market. The implementation of the insurance market envisions strengthening of
insurance legal and regulatory framework, application of best international practices in provision
of life and non-life insurance services, and revision of tax legislation for insurance. In addition,
development of insurance market will also depend on creation of sound financial market
infrastructure, enhanced powers of the regulator and protection of interests of the consumers, as
well as development of new insurance and financial instruments. In November 2005, the
President of Ukraine has also endorsed the guidelines for the future development of the capital
markets in Ukraine. Moreover, in cooperation with commercial banks the National Bank of
Ukraine has prepared and sent for discussion the draft Strategy for Development of the banking
sector of Ukraine for 2006-2010.

D. In the sphere of Cooperative Finance

        Significant efforts have been undertaken to develop Ukraine's cooperative finance
system. With the support of the Access to Financial Services PPF, the NBFI Regulator in
cooperation with local and international experts is drafting the Concept for the Development of
Credit Cooperation System in Ukraine. The Concept will be adopted in 2006. Currently,
cooperative finance market has several levels and comprises of credit unions at the local level,
joint (central) credit unions at the regional or national level, regional and national professional
associations. As of December 2005 there were 715 credit unions registered in Ukraine, including
4 joint credit unions. The membership of credit unions exceeds 1 million people. At the end of
2005 there were 17 regional associations, covering more than 300 credit unions. There are also
three national associations, with National Association of Credit Unions (NACSU) representing
more than 140 credit unions. There is a continued tendency for increased activities of the credit
unions in the market, although their share in the total assets of the financial sector does not
exceed 2 percent. However, the sector is steadily developing, as evidenced by the growth of the
assets: for the last 24 months total assets of credit unions more than tripled and as of end 2005
reached almost UAH 2 billion. Structure and quality of the CUs` assets also improved, along
with the growth of their share capital

        As credit unions service those categories of clients which normally lack attention of
banks (such as vulnerable groups of population with low income and people in rural areas), they
will become an important element of rural finance system and social support mechanism in
Ukraine. Despite of recent positive trends in development of financial markets, cooperative
finance system requires State's support and significant improvements in the areas of legal and
regulatory framework, institutional capacity and infrastructure of cooperative finance market,
aimed at protecting the rights of CUs` members and facilitating their development in accordance
with the best international practices.




                                                 35

E. In the sphere of inter-budgetary relations and financing of Sub-National Governments
(SNGs) and municipal enterprises.

        Enhancement of financial foundations and improvement of inter-budgetary relations are
important factors for local and regional development. Through the adoption of the Budgetary
Code in 2001 the revenues and expenditures of State and local governments budgets were
separated, relevant principles established and the mechanism for inter-budgetary transfers
launched. The Budgetary Code incorporated new principles of structuring and functioning of the
budgetary system of the State, foremost in the sphere of inter-budgetary relations.

        The Budgetary Code stipulates for a new approach towards inter-budgetary relations:
relations between the State and local budgets become more transparent. The new methodology
for local budget planning was introduced, the overall volume of local budgets increased, role and
functions of local governments in the budgetary process become more clear-cut. After applying
formula approach to calculation of inter-budgetary transfers, the level of differentiation in
financing social services on the regional level decreased. Finally, a draft law On Local
Borrowings and the State Guarantees is currently being reviewed by the Government for
submission to the Parliament.

        Nevertheless, the overall situation with the local budgets remains complicated. Among
the main problems are: absence of adequate legal framework for SNG borrowing, significant
differentiations in revenues and expenditures of local budgets (on inter-and intra- regional level);
weak financial management and forecasting of local budget revenues leading to poor justification
and projection of income of local budgets; lack of adequate legislation and regulations for
managing inter-budgetary relations and mutual transfers etc. Therefore, the budgetary system of
Ukraine needs further improvement and adjustment to the best international principles in order to
support efficient regional and local development.

        Future Program

        The Government of Ukraine resolutely implements the policies towards adoption of the
best international principles and accession to the global financial markets and international
organizations, including WTO. Within such policies the Government is committed to adhere to
the rules, policies and standards of state support and market liberalization, including in the areas
of regulatory policies, which are envisioned by international agreements, including WTO
Agreement on Agriculture, GATT, Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties etc. In
the sphere of financial services, Ukraine has pronounced clear reform agenda based on
introduction of international best standards and practices in legislative, regulatory and
institutional framework. This will allow to ensure stable development of financial institutions in
line with the sound practices of risks management and disclosure of information; to establish
efficient system of micro and cooperative finance to develop new financial services and make
financial institutions more efficient and competitive. These reforms will be supported by the
increased capitalization of the financial institutions and entry of foreign capital, both into the
banking and insurance sector in the upcoming years.

        1. Mortgage Finance. The Government will support establishment of an efficient and
transparent two-tier mortgage finance system in line with the best international standards and



                                                36

practices based on the market principles. Future developments in the sphere of mortgage
finance, as conceived by the policy instruments adopted by the Government, will be aimed at
harmonization of mortgage finance legislation and removal of existing inconsistencies,
enhancement of transparency and consumer protection in the mortgage finance market,
unification and increased efficiency of the real estate and mortgage registration system,
standardization of the mortgage lending procedure according to the best practices, development
of proper procedure for assessment of creditworthiness of the mortgage borrowers, monitoring of
the quality of mortgage portfolio and risks management of primary mortgage lenders. To
facilitate further development of the mortgage finance market and support liquidity of the
mortgage lenders, the Government has committed to ensure development of the State Mortgage
Institution (SMI) as a liquidity facility that provides refinancing to primary mortgage lenders on
the basis of transparent, commercially viable, profitable, and low risk operations.

        Specifically, the Government stands ready to facilitate future sound development of SMI
by (i) ensuring its sound corporate governance; (ii) facilitating engagement of best expertise
(international and local experts) necessary to prepare adequate regulations and procedures for
operations of SMI; (iii) providing guidance and applying best international practices in
developing SMI's documents such as business and financial plans, internal policies and risks
management procedures, IT/MIS etc, necessary to bring SMI's operations in line with the
pronounced principles and make it competitive and efficient.

        Moreover, future development of mortgage finance market will be in line with the
provisions of the COM Resolution #559-p on the Concept for Development of the Mortgage
Market in Ukraine which outlines clear principles of non-government intervention, application of
good international practices, and introduction of the conductive legal and regulatory framework
and market practices necessary to develop competitive, transparent and accessible mortgage
finance in Ukraine.

        2. Insurance Sector. In insurance sector, according to the Concept for the development of
insurance market in Ukraine till 2010 (approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of
Ukraine in August 2005), a number of the reforms will be implemented along inter alia the
following lines:

    -   implementation of efficient state regulation and supervision in the insurance sphere in the
        light of best international practices and standards recommended by International
        Association of Insurance Supervisors;

    -   development of long-term life insurance, enhancement of insurers participation in private
        pension systems and establishment of regulation of insurers activities in the sphere of
        mandatory health insurance;

    -   increased capitalization, soundness and trustworthiness of insurance companies;

    -   improvement of the tax regime of the insurance activities.

        The implementation of the concept will be conducted according to the annual action plans
to be developed by the NBFI Regulator in cooperation with other financial regulators, Ministry
of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice and League of Insurance Companies.


                                                  37

       3. Cooperative Finance. According to the Concept being currently developed by the
NBFI Regulator, the main objective of developing sound credit cooperation system is formation
of the efficient market mechanisms for expanding access to finance and provision of alternative
financial services to population, small businesses and farmers. Development of vibrant
cooperative finance system along with commercial banking services will allow Ukraine to
establish adequate conditions for long-term financing, using modern market infrastructure and
financial instruments allowing for decrease of cost of financial resources for entrepreneurs and
SME, especially in rural areas.

     State policy in this area envisions indirect Government influence of future development of
the sector by improving legal framework (Law on Credit Unions), enhancing regulation and
supervision of credit unions and bringing it in line with international principles, as well as
promoting and assisting in establishment of efficient market infrastructure.


       4. Reforms in the Banking Sector. The National Bank of Ukraine proclaimed its intention
to support the following directions of the banking sector development:

       ·   raising the level of capitalization of the banking sector;
       ·   increasing the quality and competitiveness of banking services;
       ·   enforcing international standards of corporate governance and disclosure of
           information, including information about real (beneficial owners of banks);
       ·   further development of risks management in banks;
       ·   improving protection of the rights of creditors and depositors.

       These objectives are defined and supported by the reform measures in the draft Strategy
for the Development of the Banking Sector during 2006­2010 which was prepared by the
National Bank of Ukraine jointly with the Association of Ukrainian Banks and market
participants. It aims at developing stable, transparent, and competitive banking system in
Ukraine, which would promote long-term economic growth of the country, its financial security,
and be capable and prepared to integrate into the world economic space without detriment to
national interests. This strategy is supported by the respective reforms in the area of banking
supervision and commitment of Ukraine to bring revisions to the Ukrainian banking legislation,
necessary to harmonize it with EU legislation and recommendations of Basle Committee for
Banking Supervision.

       5. Access to finance for SNGs. The system of inter-budgetary relations remains imperfect.
Primarily mechanisms of allocation of inter-budgetary transfers require reforming.
Differentiation between regions based on volumes of tax revenue per capita is over 11 times.
Relevant differences are being compensated by the existing system of transfers that does not
stimulate the local government to foster the increase in tax revenue. It is deemed necessary to
introduce new system of earmarked transfers, and their channeling to solve concrete social and
economic issues.

       Within the Project the implementation of measures aimed at reforming local inter-
budgetary relations and improvement of regulatory and legal framework of local borrowings will
be conducted along the following lines:


                                                  38

            -   optimization of allocation of competence between executive bodies of
                different levels and local government;
            -   development of the formula-based model of inter-budgetary transfers as well
                as improvement of methodology for projecting incomes of local government
                and calculating of expenditure limits;
            -   development and installation of software to improve the local debt monitoring
                system;
            -   improvement of legal framework for local borrowings and local debt
                monitoring system.

        The phases of APL, their proposed design, and how they are linked to the current
achievement and future plans

        We request the World Bank to support our Program through implementation of two
phases of the Access to Financial Services Project.

        Together with your staff, we have identified the following key project performance
indicators which would function as triggers for consideration of the second phase of the APL:

   ·    at least 60 percent of the line of credit provided under the first APL is disbursed;
   ·    less than 5 percent of the average outstanding sub-loans are classified (substandard,
        doubtful and loss);
   ·    A satisfactory legal and regulatory framework is in place for leasing, factoring and credit
        unions (for these institutions to be included in APL2);
   ·    A satisfactory framework for SNG borrowing is in place, including: (a) the law on SNG
        borrowing; (b) a functioning SNG debt monitoring system at the MoF; (c) clear definition
        of functional assignments and their financing for different levels of government; and (d)
        adequate local government accounting and reporting systems;
   ·    The Government has refrained from making credit lines available on terms and
        conditions representing unfair competition to the credit and leasing facilities financed
        under the program.

        The Program support includes: (a) assisting the banking sector to develop the capacity to
provide retail financial services, in order to reduce the transaction costs gap between lenders and
potential borrowers; (b) enhancing the protection of creditors rights to lessen the risk of
intermediation; (c) building up the credit market infrastructure and new financial products to
make credit transactions more attractive to both borrowers and lenders; (d) providing technical
assistance to SNGs aimed at preparing bankable credit proposals and business plans; and (e)
making available a comparatively modest amount of well-targeted and properly priced long term
credit funds to trigger implementation of the program and promote rapid market take up of the
opportunities thereby created.

        Final outcomes expected and conclusions




                                                   39

       The implementation of the proposed Program will substantially contribute to the success
of the mentioned above development policies. Thus far the Government expects that Program
implementation will produce the following results:

    -  providing access to long-term and reasonably priced loans by individuals, agricultural
       producers and other undertakings;

    -  capacity development of financial markets infrastructure;

    -  improving the legislative and regulatory framework for financial services as well as rural
       finance;

    -  creating adequate conditions conducive to the development of housing, commercial
       (industrial) and agroindustrial mortgage;

    -  introducing efficient mechanisms of refinancing the activities of mortgage creditors and
       mobilizing long-term resources to the financial sector.

       We look forward to our continued fruitful cooperation with the World Bank in supporting
the above mentioned program, aimed at improving access to finance for Ukrainian companies
and entrepreneurs in rural areas, developing stronger financial institutions and promoting modern
financial legal and regulatory framework. This support will help Ukraine to ensure sustainable
economic development, approximation to European Union, increased competitiveness of the
national economy as well as integration of Ukrainian financial system with international
financial markets.

                                                Sincerely,



                                            Victor Pynzenyk




                                                40

                Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                          UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

                                                                                                 Latest (ISR) Implement. Rating
                Sector Issue                                      Project                       Implement.         Devt Objective
                                                                                                Progress (IP)      (DO)
Bank-financed                                    Development Policy Loan 1 (DPL1),                      S                S
Inter alia, banking and NBFI                     (closed 2005)
legislation/supervision, corporate
governance and disclosure of
information, restructuring of state
Savings Bank, mortgage finance
legislation, judicial reform
Access to export finance and                     Export Development Project (closed                     S                S
strengthening institutional capacity of          2004)
Export-Import Bank of Ukraine
Payment System                                   Institutional Development Loan (closed                 S                S
                                                 2001)
Inter alia, banking supervision,                 Programmatic Adjustment Loans 1 and 2                  S                S
reform/liquidation of state-owned banks,         (PAL 1, 2), 2001-2005
NBFI regulation, property and creditors
rights
Development of micro, SME and SNG                Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (closed                   n/a              n/a
financing services in coal industry areas        2000), 3rd tranche restructured into credit
                                                 line for micro, SME and SNGs)
IFC
Leasing industry and framework                                 Leasing TA project (ongoing)
Business practices of agro-industry producers in rural         Agribusiness Development Project (closed December 2005,
areas, weather index insurance                                 new under preparation/launch)
Corporate governance of banks                                  Banks corporate governance TA project (on-going)
Medium-term financing                                          Credit Line to commercial banks and leasing companies
Corporate Governance, SME and Doing Business surveys           (PSD related work, necessary to create enabling environment)

Other Development Agencies
                         Sector Issue                                                        Project
EBRD
Institutional capacity and SME/MSME lending skills of          Various lines of credit for SMEs and MSMEs
eligible commercial banks
Primary housing finance                                        Mortgage Finance Credit Line
Warehouse receipts financing                                   Facility with bank Aval
Trade facilitation financing                                   Direct TFF with a number of commercial banks
USAID
Capital Markets                                                Capital Markets
Training and capacity building in such areas as mortgage,      Access to Credit Project
leasing, municipal and mortgage securities, credit bureau
Lending skills and procedures of selected banks (Nadra         Rural Development Finance Program -
Bank) in working with agricultural enterprises, partial loan
guarantee (50%).
European Union TACIS: Knowledge building in                    Insurance (launched April 2006) and Mortgage TA (on-going/under
mortgage finance and insurance (including (actuarial)          completion) Programs
Development of rural micro-lending and enhancement of          Rural SMEs development (ongoing)
Credit Unions (CU)' institutional capacity
CIDA: Institutional development of CU                          Credit Union Strengthening Program (on-going)
DFID: TA to establish local business advisory centers and      Ukrainian Rural Livelihoods Program
services, and in developing business cooperatives
GTZ: Development of CU's regulatory framework (SCFRS)          Cooperative Finance Development TA Program




                                                                    41

                             Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                  UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

                PDO                          Outcome Indicators            Use of Outcome Information

Increased access to finance by      A clear increase in the number of   Monitor rural finance strategy
RSMEs through financial             RSME clients of the PBs             (including creation of proper
intermediaries under sound                                              infrastructure and legal framework)
commercial practices.                                                   to make adjustments, if necessary.

.                                                                       Feed into the strategy for
                                                                        mainstreaming program and
                                                                        preparation of APL2
     Intermediate Results             Results Indicators for Each            Use of Results Monitoring
     One per Component                           Component

Component A:                        Component A:                        Component A:
RSMEs have better access to funds   Increase in total volume of longer  Low disbursement of credit line may
                                    term finance extended by PBs to     evidence deficient legal and
                                    RSMEs.                              institutional framework for lending
                                                                        to RSMEs; cumbersome
                                                                        implementation procedures, or PB
                                                                        underperformance and could identify
                                                                        areas where some changes could be
                                                                        made


Component B:                        Component B:                        Component B:
Infrastructure and legal framework  Legislation for new financial       Consider the next phase of reforms
for credit market expansion         services introduced                 under APL2
established
                                    Improved infrastructure and         Determine if assistance is
                                    legislation to support financial    appropriate and realign delivery if
                                    services.                           necessary.

                                                                        Feed into the strategy for
                                                                        mainstreaming program and
                                                                        preparation of APL2

Component C:                        Component C:                        Component C:
PMU capacity to monitor and         Two surveys completed               Indicate if there is a need to adjust
evaluate project progress                                               implementation arrangements




                                                      42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          be
                                                                                                                                                            Data
                                                                                                                                                                for                                                               PMU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  that                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Collection
                                                                        Responsibility                                                                                                                                               Bs,P                                                                                                                                                           PBs/PMU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PMU                                                                                      MoF                                                                                                                                            PMU                                                                    Given
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              expected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lending)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                this.
                                 Reporting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SNG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by
                                          and                                         Collection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    data                                                 data                                                                                                                                           reports                                                                                                              reports                                                                      company
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         reports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               reports,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              provide                                                                                                                             seline                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nce,
                                                                                                                                                                   Instruments
                                                                                                Data                                                                                                                                            PB                                                                                                                                                         Surveys                                                                                                                                                      NBU                            PB                    PMU                                               rojectP                                                      supervision,                       PMU                                      rojectP                                                 supervision,        PMU                  Surveys                                                 Local                      to                                                                                                                                 ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ts                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                                                                                                               6.                                                                                                                     insura

                                             Collection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                               200                                                                                                                        for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SMI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        years                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   late
                                                       Data                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           annual)                                                                   semi-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (e.g.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                             annual                 financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            two                                                                        adjustmen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      increases                                                                                                                                                                                             until                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bureau,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         laws
                                                                                                                                                                              Reports                                                             annual                                                                               reports                                                                    Bulletins                                                                                                                                                                                    and                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            every
                                                                                                       Frequency                                                                                                                                                                                                        semi-annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              quarterly,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              make                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Credit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 stream
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PMU                                                                        PBs        annual                                                                       NBU                                                                              (quarterly                                                                     PBs                    annual                    reports statements                        Annual                                                                                                                                   Annual                                                                                                        Once                                                                            will                                                                                                                              annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Receipts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on                                                                                                                    existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  they                                                                                                                                                                                                                    percentage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (e.g.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of

                                                                                                                Yr5                                                                  2010                                                                                                 *                                                                                                                                    Yr4                                                                                    10%                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        that                                                                                                                            Targeted                                                                                                                                                                                            come
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    agreed                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Warehouse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         time.                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                  operational
                                                                                                                   Yr4                                                                   2009                                                                                              *                                                                                                                                        Yr                                                                                   15%                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                           1
monitoring                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               indicated                                                                                                                                that                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 amendments                                                                  enacted:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      at                                                                                                                                                                                       expected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Law
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 enacted"
                                                           Values                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      reflect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       been
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  have                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Transactions
                                                                                                                      YR3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               set                                                                                         to                                                                                                 not                                                                                                                       major
                                                                                                                                                                                             2008                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            becoming
          results                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yr2                                                                                  15%                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or                                                                       had
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PBs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Leasing,
                                                                 Target                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43
                 for                                                                                                     2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  will
                                                                                                                          Yr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Secured
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2007                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            late
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Yr1                                                                                 20%                                                                                                                                                             1                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     adopted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                            legislation                                                                                                                                                                   institutions                                                                legislation                                                                    on

                                                                                                                            1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            However,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Financial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  baseline                                                                                                                                                                                             as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on                                                                                           new                                                                                                                                              Law
                                                                                                                             Yr                                                                      2006                                                                                     *                                                                                                                                                r0Y                                                                                5%                                                                                                                                                            0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                                                                                                             ation.                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                    updated                                                                                                 year                                                                                                                   legislation                                                                                                                                                       Law                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                 following                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 following
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                history,
                    Arrangements                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2006,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       inform
                                                                                                                               YR0                                                                       PPF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             will                                                                                               partiala                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        credit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  baseline                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aselineb                                                                                                                               aselineb                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            late                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bonds,                                                                                        adopted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             this                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           pieces
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                             only                                                                                                                                                                                                 2005,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  new
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       only                                                                                  indicators                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                       end
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2005)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                provide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by                                                                       Mortgage                                                                                                                                                                 preparation,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         legislation                                                                                                                                                                         established
                                                                                                                                  Baseline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (Dec                                                                          **                                                                                                                                                         US$450                                                                    mln                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                                                      3                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        represents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                          circulation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           effective                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   number                                                                      PPF,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        project                                                                                                  was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Law
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        currently                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                                                                                                                                            pieces
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          percent.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (2006)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                term                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          during
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    become                                                                                        3-5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                        number                                                                       help                                                                                                                                                                            number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Component                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           services                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cannot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ****                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mortgage,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              formation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             number                                                                                                                                                                                                 longer                                                             RSMEs**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     legislation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            will                                                                                                                                                                                          project                                                                                                                      by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the                                                                             on                                                                                                by                                                                        support                                                                    on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                         Each                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                         region                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    addition,
                                                                                                                                          Indicators                                                                                                                  in                         PBs*                                                              for                                                                                                                                                                          PBs                                                                                                                                                               financial                                                                                                                          services.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                project                                                                                        the                                                                                                  of1                                                                                                                                                                                              With                                                                           Law                                                                                                                                                                              With                                                                  Law                              In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                    volume                                                                 by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Measured
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PBs'                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                        in                                                                                                   Yr.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Measured
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      completed
                                                                                                                                                    Outcome                                                                                                             increase                                                                                                        A:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for                                                                                                                             financial                                 C:                                                                                                                                                                                                        *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     **                                                                                                                     ***                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Indicators                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          clients                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    extended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               surveys                                                                                                                                             Notes:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Results                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Percentage                       RSME                                                                     Component                                                                                      Increase                                                            finance                                                                                              Component                                                      Legislation            introduced***                                          Improved                                                       to                          Component                                                   Two

                                 Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

1.   The Borrower and Implementing Agency for the project will be the Ministry of Finance.
The MoF will on-lend funds under Subcomponent A1 of Component A to eligible commercial
banks.

2.   The Project consists of the three main components, that are described in more detail below:

        ·   Component A: Access to finance, comprising: Subcomponent A1 - a line of credit for
            RSMEs, agricultural and micro enterprises, and SNGs; and Subcomponent A2 -
            institutional development for Participating Banks (PBs);
        ·   Component B: Enabling Environment for Financial Intermediation;
        ·   Component C: Project management, monitoring and audit.

Component A ­ Access to Finance

3.      This component includes two main subcomponents. The first would be a line of credit to
the selected Participating Banks (PBs), and the second would be institutional development
support for the PBs.

        A1      Line of Credit

        This comprises a Line of Credit of US$126 million to finance subloans through the three
        selected PBs for eligible micro-, agricultural and RSME sub-borrowers in rural areas
        (RSME) to finance their working capital and medium to longer term investments needs
        (including financial leasing contracts). As described below, subloans could also be made
        to SNGs. The PBs will assume all risks associated with on-lending to sub-borrowers.

        Eligible Participating Banks. Funds for this subcomponent will be on-lent by the MoF to
        the PBs (in US$ and UAH) under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, with terms and
        conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank. Three commercial banks (Pryvat, Nadra and
        Kreditprom) have been selected as PBs (see Attachment to this Annex for information on
        the PBs). Among the criteria used in their selection was the requirement that they must
        operate under sound commercial principles, meet minimum financial performance
        standards and be in full compliance with NBU prudential regulations. Detailed eligibility
        criteria for the PBs are provided in Annex 6 ­ Attachment 1.

        Eligible Sub-Borrowers. Eligible RSMEs will be private sector legal enterprises28 and
        entrepreneurs registered in Ukraine located in rural areas or individuals residing in rural
        areas of Ukraine. In addition, farmers and non-rural enterprises engaged in agricultural-
        related production will also be eligible. Lending to SNGs, on a pilot basis, could be
        considered for inclusion in the line of credit, if during project implementation satisfactory
        legislation on the SNG borrowing and guarantees is put in place and there is verifiable



28To be considered private, an enterprise must have more than 50% private ownership.


                                                       44

        demand from SNG eligible borrowers (municipalities and municipal enterprises).29
        Otherwise, SNG financing will be provided under Phase 2 of the Program. Eligible
        SNGs would need to demonstrate good financial management and capital planning
        practices. In the aggregate, maximum exposure by the PBs to any single borrower should
        not exceed US$4.0 million equivalent, or UAH 40 million in the case of SNGs.

        Eligible sub-projects include: (i) productive investments and financial leases in all sub-
        sectors of the rural economy (agriculture, services, and industry), and (ii) working capital
        loans for the same sub-sectors. The maximum size of a subloan (including for financial
        leases) for a productive investment would be $1.5 million equivalent. The maximum size
        of a working capital subloan would be $0.3 million equivalent. Sub-borrowers would be
        expected to provide 20 percent of the total sup-project cost from their own resources.
        Subloans below UAH 250,000 would be provided to small/microenterprises and
        entrepreneurs in rural areas to cover their investment or working capital needs. The
        maximum size of a subloan in the case of an SNG will be UAH 40 million. The
        requirements for sub-projects are provided in Annex 6, Attachment 1.

        A2: Institutional Development for PBs (Estimated cost about US$15 million)

        The project will finance consulting services and institutional development investments
        for eligible PBs to enhance their capacity and skills to lend to RSMEs and SNGs,
        consistent with the project objectives. This subcomponent could finance the costs
        associated with, inter alia: (a) developing and updating necessary technologies
        (computerized management information systems, risks management systems, new
        products and lending techniques, other soft and hardware) of banks that would ensure the
        provision of financial services to RSMEs and SNGs; (b) external training of banks' staff;
        and (c) consulting services for PBs to help develop new products and skills to enable
        them to reach new clients, especially rural and SNG borrowers.

        PBs may borrow the funds for these activities, in US dollars, from the MoF on the same
        terms and conditions as for Subcomponent A1, and will finance from their own funds at
        least 20 percent of the investment costs associated with IT expenditures. Activities under
        this subcomponent will be consistent with the PB's overall business strategy and planning
        and will be agreed with the Bank during the course of project implementation. Each PB
        may use up to 15 percent of the total amount of its Subsidiary Loan for its institutional
        development purposes. In addition, it is expected that, given the lead time needed, before
        for moving ahead with these activities, each PB will have disbursed at least 5 percent of
        its Subsidiary Loan for subloans to subborrowers. Staggering the use of funds for these
        investments will also serve to demonstrate the PB's interest in supporting the
        development objective of the project. Furthermore, if the PBs decide, during the course
        of project implementation, that they prefer to finance such activities from their own
        resources, they may shift these funds to Subcomponent A1.




29Such sub-projects would also be likely to support urgently required rehabilitation or equipment for vital services
while further attention is given to the application of appropriate cost recovery mechanisms and their management.


                                                           45

Component B: Enabling Environment for Financial Intermediation (Estimated cost US$8.0
million).

3.   This component supports institutional development to strengthen the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework for the financial sector. It will improve the enabling environment,
including infrastructure, for financial intermediation to RSMEs and SNGs. Substantial support
has already been provided through the PPF for this project to help develop primary legislation,
such as for subnational borrowing, mortgage finance and secured transactions. Further support
will be provided under the project, in close coordination with USAID and other donors, to focus
on implementation.

4.   Under this component, technical assistance through consulting services, IT/MIS
investments and training will be provided in the following areas:

        a. Subcomponent B1: Development of Non-bank Financial Services and Supervision.
           This includes support for the Non-bank Financial Institutions Regulator ­ the State
           Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets (SCRFSM) - to: (i)
           develop and establish the information/management systems needed for the SCRFSM
           to improve and effectively exercise its supervisory function strengthen its institutional
           capacity and develop modern supervisory techniques; (ii) improve procedures,
           regulations and legal framework for insurance, micro-credit, leasing and other NBFI
           services; (iii) develop new financial products and services, in such areas as
           agricultural risk insurance, warehouse receipts, leasing, etc.
        b. Subcomponent B2: Establishment of a Credit Bureau.            This includes technical
           assistance to support the development of a credit bureau to prepare, inter alia, the
           legal framework and internal procedures for the bureau's activities.
        c. Subcomponent B3: SNG Debt Market Development. This includes support for the
           Ministry of Finance to help create an adequate legal and regulatory framework for
           SNG borrowing; improve inter-budgetary relations and the debt management capacity
           of MoF and SNGs.
        d. Subcomponent B4: Development of the Mortgage Finance System. Support will be
           provided to help strengthen the recently created State Mortgage Institution (SMI) so
           that it can develop into an effective liquidity facility which refinances mortgage
           loans.   It will also provide support for the establishment of a sound legal and
           regulatory framework for housing finance.
        e. Subcomponent B5:        Other areas of institutional development support.           This
           subcomponent includes a provision for expertise that may become necessary during
           the project implementation but is not yet fully defined. This could include support for
           the Ministry of Finance in specific areas, including legal assistance, relating to
           eliminating constraints to access to financial services in rural areas, as well as for
           preparation of APL2.

Component C. Project Management and Monitoring (Estimated cost of US$1.6 million).

5.   The MoF has established a Project Management Unit (PMU) to manage the overall
implementation and coordination of project activities. This component will finance the staffing
costs of the PMU, as well as the incremental expenditures incurred by the MoF, through its


                                                46

PMU, in implementing the project and monitoring and evaluating its results. This includes, inter
alia: consultant services, telecommunications, furniture and office equipment and training. In
addition, it will support workshops and other activities to disseminate information about the
project and surveys to enhance project monitoring and evaluation. Financing the PMU from the
Loan for the AFSP has been agreed on an exceptional basis since the MoF does not have
adequate capacity to carry out this responsibility. It is envisaged that this is a transitional
arrangement as appropriate capacity will be developed through the management of this project so
that the PMU can be mainstreamed into the MoF by the time of APL2. This component will also
cover the cost of the annual audit of the Project accounts.




                                                 47

                                                                        Attachment to Annex 4

Pryvat Bank

1.      Pryvat Bank is the largest bank in Ukraine in terms of total assets, customer loans, total
deposits and shareholders' equity. In 2004 and 2005 the bank was also the market leader in
terms of net profit after tax. Pryvat Bank is a privately-owned universal bank offering a full
range of banking services to the corporate and SME markets as well as providing consumer
finance to individuals. As of October 1, 2005 the bank's total assets amounted to US$3,900
million and the bank had shareholders' funds of US$408 million. The head office of the bank is
located in Dnepropetrovsk, a major industrial city situated around 450 km. southeast of Kyiv.

2.      The bank has operated under a full banking license issued by the National Bank of
Ukraine (NBU) since March 1992. The bank currently has 42 major branches and regional
offices located throughout Ukraine's 25 administrative regions, with an especially high
concentration in the Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk and Kyiv regions.          Considering all its sub-
branches, agencies and sub-agencies, the bank has more than 2,100 points of sale throughout
Ukraine. The bank is privately owned, with a small number of mostly local shareholders from
the Dnepropetrovsk region.

3.      Pryvat Bank caters particularly to manufacturing and industrial companies in the
Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk regions of southeast Ukraine, but it also has a solid base in the Kyiv
region and elsewhere in the country. In recent years the bank has focussed more on SME and
retail lending to individuals. In corporate lending, the bank claims to have a market share of
around 10 percent, and in SME lending around 35 percent.


              Pryvat Bank Key Financial Data (US$ millions)

                                              End 2005       end-2004        end-2003
                                              (unaudited)     (audited)       (audited)
              Total Assets                          4,368        2,991       1,815
              Loan Portfolio                        3,187        1,775       1,425
              Deposits                              3,363        2,236       1,423
              Shareholders' Funds                     450          244        152
              Net Income after tax                     94           20          19

              Capital Adequacy Ratio (end of 2004): 11.5%



Nadra Bank

4.      Nadra Bank is the ninth largest bank in Ukraine in terms of assets. The bank had total
assets of US$733 million at the end of 2004 and over US$1.2 billion at the end of 2005. The
bank is a universal bank with a strong presence in the retail, SME and corporate sectors of the
market. It has been involved in a rapid expansion of its branch network in recent years and it
now has more than 500 branches throughout the country. It is a privately owned bank with a
relatively small number of significant shareholders.



                                                    48

5.      The bank has a focus on lending to large and medium sized enterprises, especially those
involved in production and import/export related activities.


               Nadra Bank Key Financial Data (US$ millions)

                                                 End 2005           end-2004     end-2003
                                                 (unaudited)         (audited)    (audited)
              Total Assets                          1,204            733          532
              Loan Portfolio                          814            442          303
              Deposits                                660            389          280
              Shareholders' Funds                     128             66            34
              Net Income after tax                      27              5            1

              Capital Adequacy Ratio (end of 2004): 15.4% (end of 2005): 12.8%



2.        Kreditprom Bank

6.      Kreditprom Bank is one of the top twenty banks in Ukraine and in terms of capital and
was ranked number 14 in the banking system at end-2004. Kreditprom Bank is a universal bank
offering the full range of banking services to the corporate and SME markets as well as
providing consumer finance to individuals. In October 2005 the bank's total assets amounted to
US$446 million and the bank had shareholders' funds of US$64 million. By the end of 2005 its
assets increased to US$564 million. This bank was originally registered as Inkom Bank, but the
name was subsequently changed to Kreditprom Bank in September 1999. The bank is privately
owned with a small number of foreign and local shareholders.

7.      The bank currently has about 60 branches and 1,100 employees. The bank is expanding
its branch network to some other regions of the country and the management had a target to
reach 77 branches by end of the 2005. The bank increased its SME and consumer finance
operations significantly during 2004-2005. Kreditprom Bank has a particular strength in the
manufacturing and processing sectors and has built up a relationship with many of the larger
businesses in Ukraine.

8.      The profits of the bank increased from US$2 million in 2003 to US$2.8 million in 2004
and for the first half of 2005 a profit of US$1.8 million was recorded.

              Kreditprom Bank Key Financial Data (US$ millions)

                                                 End 2005           end-2004     end-2003
                                             (audited according     (audited)    (audited)
                                              to UA Standards)
              Total Assets                          564              271            250
              Loan Portfolio                        337              195            158
              Deposits                              328              183            145
              Shareholders' Funds                    66               39             28
              Net Income after tax                    3                 3              2

              Capital Adequacy Ratio (end of 2004): 24.7%



                                                    49

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs
              UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT



Project Cost By Component                                       Local             Foreign              Total
                                                             US$ million       US$ million       US$ million

Component A: Access to Finance
A1       Line of Credit                                         31.5                126.0            157.5
A2     Institutional Development for PBs                          3.5                 14.0            17.5
                  Subtotal Component A                          35.0                140.0            175.0

Component B: Enabling Environment for                                                 8.025            8.0
Financial Intermediation

Component C: Project Management and                                                    1.6             1.6
Monitoring


                                 Total Project Costs1           35.0              149.625            184.625
                                         Front-end Fee                                0.375            0.375

                         Total Financing Required               35.0              150.000            185.0


1Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$ 4.3 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$180.7
million. Therefore, the share of project cost net of identifiable taxes is about 1%. It is not possible to identify
taxes that might be payable from the credit line funds.




                                                      50

                            Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
               UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT


A.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

1.      The Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be the representative of the Borrower. It will also be
the implementing agency for the project and as such will have overall responsibility for ensuring
that the project is efficiently implemented and for the successful achievement of the project
objectives. The MoF has established a Project Management Unit (PMU) that has been managing
project preparation and will be responsible for the administration and monitoring of project
implementation activities. The Minister or Finance is the Project Coordinator and the primary
project counterpart. The Deputy Minister of Finance has been authorized to deal, on a daily
basis, with the Project's administrative and legalistic issues and is the primary counterpart for the
PMU on various non-strategic aspects of project implementation. Funds for Component A will
be on-lent to Participating Banks (PBs) as described below. MoF will administer and manage
the funds and activities for Components B and C.

B. On-lending Arrangements

2.      Funds for Component A will be on-lent by the MoF to the selected PBs under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank. Conclusion of these agreements between the MoF
and at least two PBs will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project. The PBs will
be responsible for the implementation of this component. The PBs have been selected based on
criteria described in Attachment 1 to this Annex. These criteria, inter alia, are aimed to ensure
the PBs' capacity to carry out this task by requiring adequacy operational rules and procedures
and availability of human and financial resources. The criteria, as agreed with the Bank, will
also be the basis for ensuring the continued compliance of the PBs with the eligibility criteria
throughout project implementation.

3.      Component A. PBs will on-lend the funds under Subcomponent A1 of the project to the
eligible RSMEs and agricultural enterprises on market terms. The funds will be lent to the PBs
in US$ or Ukrainian hryvna (UAH) for on-lending in the same currency to the final beneficiaries.
On-lending to the RSMEs will be in UAH, except in cases where the final beneficiary is an
exporter. Eligibility criteria for final beneficiaries and subloans are provided in Attachment 1 to
this Annex.    The possibility of lending to SNGs on a pilot basis will be reviewed once
appropriate legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, has been passed relating to the authority of
SNGs to borrow and to the protection of creditors' rights. Funds for Subcomponent A2 will be
lent to the PBs in US$. The maximum amount of project funds allocated to each PB, based on
the negotiations of the MoF with the individual PBs, has been established as follows: (i)
Kreditprom Bank: US$43 million; (ii) Nadra Bank: US$46 million; and Pryvatbank: US$51
million.

4.      The interest rate charged by the MoF to the PBs for US$ funds will be equal to the 6-
month LIBOR plus 225 basis points. The interest rate charged to the PBs for the loans in UAH
will be equal to the NBU refinancing rate but not less than the 6-month LIBOR plus 425 basis



                                                  51

points, with the Ministry of Finance assuming the foreign exchange risk.30 This rate will be
adjusted semi-annually based on the movements of 6-month LIBOR. In addition, these spreads
will be reviewed from time to time during project implementation to adjust for changing cost
structure and risk considerations. The PBs will pay the MoF a commitment fee of 0.75 percent
on the amount pre-allocated to the PBs and a front-end fee of 1 percent on amounts withdrawn.
The subsidiary loans to the PBs will be for a maximum of 12 years, including a 2 year grace
period (on principal) (Attachment 1).

5.       All investment subloans of US$1.0 million equivalent or above require prior review and
approval by the PMU. The first two sub-projects above US$50,000 equivalent approved by each
participating bank, all investment sub-projects of US$1.0 million equivalent and above, and all
subloans to SNGS will be subject to prior review by the World Bank. Other subloans will be
subject to post-review by the Bank as part of project supervision. Guidelines to be followed by
the PMU in reviewing subloans will be incorporated in the Operations Manual (OM).31
Completion of the OM, satisfactory to the Bank and its approval by the MoF is a condition of
effectiveness of the Loan. Care will be taken to ensure that the PBs retain full responsibility for
approving subprojects as they will bear the credit risk.

6.       To help select PBs and monitor their continued compliance with project guidelines, the
MoF has established a Bank Selection and Monitoring Commission (BSMC). The BSMC is
chaired by the Minister of Finance; other members are the Deputy Minister of Finance, the
Deputy Governor of the NBU in charge of banking supervision, Director of the NBU
Department of Banking Supervision and the Director of the PMU. The PMU acts as its
Secretariat. The BSMC will be maintained throughout project implementation. The NBU will
play a key role assessment of continued eligibility of the PBs, and will confirm the PBs'
continued compliance with NBU prudential regulations. Continued compliance of each PB with
the eligibility criteria32 will be confirmed, quarterly, by the PB's management, as well as
annually by the external auditors.

C. Project Management Unit

7.       The PMU, headed by a Director, has been established under the MoF and has been
adequately staffed, including a Director, Procurement, Financial Management, Disbursement,
Legal and Banking Specialists as well as an Administrative Assistant.33 It will be responsible for
the overall administration of the project, coordination with project beneficiaries and reporting to
the Bank. The Project provides resources for additional consultants specialized in the areas of
subnational government finance, and non-bank financial services, financial sector policy reform,
procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation, as needed.

8.       Detailed implementation arrangements will be incorporated in the OM. The role of the
PMU is to facilitate project implementation. It will handle procurement of goods and services,
based on technical information provided by the beneficiary agencies. Beneficiary agencies will
retain responsibility for managing and overseeing contract execution and consultants'

30This spread over LIBOR includes a minimum foreign exchange risk spread of 200 basis points.
31These guidelines were confirmed during Negotiations.
32IAS-based ratios based on IAS definitions and methodologies
33Initial support for the PMU, including its staff, has been funded from the Project's PPF.


                                                          52

performance, to ensure that work is carried out in accordance with terms of reference that they
have provided. The PMU will monitor compliance with contractual or commercial terms of
contracts.

Monitoring and Evaluation.

9.       Progress in achieving the program's objectives will be measured through a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to be established by the PMU,
including the use of surveys of subloan beneficiaries. The M&E system will provide information
about specific quantitative targets for key indicators of project performance (see Annex 3), based
on data collected from the PBs and the beneficiaries of any project-related technical assistance.
A mid-term review to be held about, by about June 2008, will include a detailed assessment of
progress and achievements to date and will serve as the basis to determine readiness to proceed
with the APL2.

10.      The PBs and beneficiaries will maintain all records necessary to measure the
performance and viability of their project-related activities. Records will be available for review
by the PMU and Bank staff, as necessary. The PMU will prepare, and submit to the Bank for its
review, consolidated quarterly reports,34 based on information provided by the PBs and
beneficiaries. The Bank will conduct implementation reviews, as part of its normal supervision,
on a semi-annual basis, supplemented by more frequent reviews during the initial
implementation period. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within
six months of the project's Closing Date.




34Formats for these reports were agreed with the Bank during Appraisal confirmed during Negotiations.


                                                       53

                                     Attachment 1 to Annex 6:
                          Selection Procedures for Participating Banks
                    Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects and Sub-Borrowers

Participating Banks

1.     The MoF, through the PMU, invited commercial banks to express their formal interest in
participating in the project.      This invitation detailed the eligibility criteria, including the
requirement that the banks had to be registered commercial banks in Ukraine and have been
profitable for at least two of the last three years. In addition the banks were required to authorize
the NBU and their external auditors to provide the World Bank access to information on any
specific issues that the Bank might need to be able to complete its appraisal of the banks and for
subsequent monitoring of their eligibility under the project. Detailed criteria include:

Statutory

·  Have a full banking license with NBU and have been in compliance with all the prudential
   and regulatory requirements of NBU for at least the last two consecutive years;
·  Have IAS/IFRS compliant financial reports for the past two years, audited by a reputable
   auditing firm that is acceptable to           Documentation to be provided by Commercial Banks seeking
   the Bank;                                     to Participate in the Project
·  Be unencumbered by any litigation           · List of key personnel (including short biography): supervisory and
   that could bring it into non-                 management board, departments heads, and members of
   compliance with NBU prudential                committees (including ALCO, risk management, credit and
                                                 internal audit); regulations, orders and other documentation
   regulations;                                  defining rules of decision-making, roles and responsibilities of
·  Have regional representation in at            mentioned committees;
   least 10 oblasts (administrative            · List of essential participants, shareholders and beneficiaries,
   regions) of Ukraine.                          including stake or share of interest or ownership;

                                               · Number and location of branches and/or subsidiaries;
Financial                                      · Strategic Plan including: mission statement, customer bases,
                                                 products, Geographic expansion strategy, IT strategy;
·  Any single insider lending should           · Business Plan: including three-year projected balance sheet and
   not exceed 5 percent of the bank's            income statement; benchmarks for achieving strategic goals;
   IAS based capital;                          · Management Information System description: definition of
·  Aggregate insider lending should              business units; Methodology for measuring profitability of
   not exceed 25 percent of the bank's           business units on a risk-adjusted basis; rules for transfer pricing
                                                 and centralization of market risks; Evaluation of business unit
   IAS based capital;                            investments
·  Total exposure per single borrower          · Market risk management description: interest rate risk and
   (including its subsidiaries and other         exposure, for example as given in ISA audit reports; foreign
   related parties) should not exceed 25         exchange risk and exposure policies (current and two-year history),

   percent of bank's IAS based capital;          for example as given in ISA audit reports

·  IAS calculated risk weighted capital        · Credit policy description: structure of credit approval processes

   adequacy ratio should be not less             including lending limits and ongoing monitoring; internal financial
                                                 and non-financial approval criteria; use of credit scoring
   than 10 percent;                              techniques; internal risk classification of loans versus NBU
                                                 established loan classification criteria




                                                    54

·   Exposure to any single non-financial depositor (legal or natural person) should not exceed 30
    percent of total of liquid assets;
·   Total deposits of the 5 largest non-financial depositors (natural and legal persons) must not
    exceed 35 percent of assets with maturity of less than one month;
·   Total share of non-performing assets shall not exceed 8 percent of bank's assets;
·   Be fully compliant with loan loss provisioning requirements according to the NBU prudential
    regulations and IAS requirements;
·   NBU letter of comfort certifying that the participating banks are in full compliance with
    NBU regulatory and supervisory provisions;
·   Provide documentation relating to the management, staffing, operations, policies and
    procedures of the bank (see box 2)

2.       Each PB will have to maintain compliance with the above criteria throughout Project
implementation. MoF, through the PMU will monitor eligibility on a regular basis, based on
information provided by the NBU and the PBs. In addition, as part of their annual audits, the
banks will be required to provide, to the PMU and the World Bank, a letter from their external
auditors confirming compliance.            The Bank will review compliance as part of its regular
supervision activities.

Eligibility Criteria for RSMEs

Eligible RSMEs will be private enterprises and entrepreneurs registered in Ukraine located in
rural areas or enterprises engaged in agricultural-related production.35                     They will have to
demonstrate good financial management and capital planning practices. In addition, they should
have a debt service ratio of 1.5 and a debt equity ratio of 70/30. Beneficiaries would have to
provide at least 20 percent of the total investment cost of the subprojects. In the aggregate,
maximum exposure by the PBs to any single borrower should not exceed US$4.0 million
equivalent.

Eligible sub-projects would include:

· Investment loans or financial leases for RSMEs and agricultural enterprises, up to a maximum
  amount of US$1.5 million equivalent, for capital expenditures to expand, rehabilitate,
  modernize of existing production or service capacities. These subloans could finance up to 80
  percent of the total investment costs. On an exceptional and individual basis, the Bank could
  consider an increase in the maximum single sub-loan amount for agricultural enterprises.
· Working capital loans, up to a maximum amount of US$300,000 equivalent, to cover
  operating needs.
· Small/micro loans up to a maximum amount of UAH 250,000 (about US$50,000 equivalent)
  to cover investment or working capital needs of entrepreneurs and individuals operating or
  residing in rural areas.




35Entrepreneurs and enterprises with less than 20 employees with the ability to service and repay sub-loans can
qualify for micro/small sub-loans below US$50,000 equivalent.



                                                       55

Subloan Terms and Conditions

The maturity of investment sub-projects will have a maximum of 10 years, including a grace
period for the repayment of principal of up to 12 months. Working capital loans will have a
maturity of up to 3 years. The maximum maturity (repayment term) for a small/micro loan is 7
years.

Subloans will be made on commercial terms at market rates, in accordance with subloan
agreements to be concluded between the PBs and their customers (the final beneficiary). The PB
will bear all commercial risks associated with the subloans and the PMU will have only a review
function to ensure compliance with the Project requirements.




                                                56

              Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

1. Country Financial Management Issues

Previous Bank diagnostic and Economic and Sector Work (ESW) concluded that significant
improvement is required in public expenditure management, especially strengthening internal
and external audits in the public sector. The CFAA also identified a lack of adequate
accountability arrangements for state owned enterprises. While there has been some progress
since the publication of Bank reports in terms of bringing modern technology into the public
finance management area, major institutional reforms, such as restructuring fragmented and
overlapping functions, pose a major challenge. The next phase of reforms is expected to focus on
deepening existing reforms and widening the scope of the reform agenda. This will entail
significant changes in and realignment of institutional structures.

The 2002 Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) on Accounting and Auditing
identified weak regulatory arrangements for the audit profession, differences between National
Accounting Standards and IFRS, and weak capacity in the country to implement IFRS financial
statements and ISA audits.

In order to address some of the weaknesses, the reports recommended enhanced controls in
Projects. Such arrangements usually include ex-ante and ex-post controlling procedures. Internal
controls for the project are described below and documented in the Operations Manual.

2. Introduction

The Project will be implemented through a PMU in the MoF.                 The MoF will be the
representative of the Borrower and have overall responsibility for project implementation.

The task team conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management
systems at the PMU during project appraisal. The financial management arrangements for the
project are satisfactory to the Bank.

3. Summary

A detailed financial management questionnaire is included in the project files. A summary of the
conclusions are as follows:

            Financial Management Assessment                              PMU
            1. Implementing Entity                                       Satisfactory
            2. Funds Flow                                                Satisfactory
            3. Staffing                                                  Satisfactory
            4. Accounting Policies and Procedures                        Satisfactory
            5. Internal Audit                                            Satisfactory
            6. External Audit                                            Satisfactory
            7. Reporting and Monitoring                                  Satisfactory
            8. Information Systems                                       Satisfactory
                        OVERALL FINANC1AL MANAGEMENT RATING              Satisfactory



                                                  57

4. Risk Analysis

A summary of the risk assessment for the project identified the following risks:
Inherent Risk                           Comments
Country Financial Management Moderate   Based on CFAA report dated 2001, and update of assessment performed
Risk: weaknesses in the public          in 2004.
sector financial management
Project Financial Management   Moderate The current project design has not been used in any previous Ukrainian
Issues                                  Bank-financed projects.
Banking sector                 Moderate The banking sector is subject to NBU regulations and supervision.
                                        Selected PBs are fully compliant with NBU prudential regulations and
                                        requirements, and will be required to maintain compliance throughout
                                        implementation. Although the banking sector has strengthened
                                        significantly and improved quality of its services, it remains relatively
                                        inefficient. It remains susceptible to external and macroeconomic
                                        shocks. Some of these risks can be mitigated by ongoing efforts to
                                        strengthen NBU's supervisory capacity.
Overall inherent risk         MODERATE
Control Risk                   PMU      Comments
1. Implementing Entity         Moderate The PMU has been established in the MoF for the Project. Most of staff
                                        within the PMU has gained some experience in handling the fiduciary
                                        aspects of the Project through implementation of the PPF for the Project.
2. Funds Flow                  Moderate Funds flow arrangements are acceptable. Funds flow will be through: (i)
                                        a Special Account opened by MoF to accounts of the PBs or final
                                        contractors; or (ii) directly from the loan account to the accounts of the
                                        PBs or final contractors. PMU will coordinate all documentation flows.
3. Staffing                    Low      Staffing of the PMU established for the Project is adequate. Qualified
                                        staff will act according to the job specifications as set out in the
                                        Operations Manual. All PMU staff will be project-funded on annual
                                        renewable contracts.
4. Accounting Policies and     Moderate PMU accounting policies and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank (i) are
Procedures                              in compliance with Ukrainian regulations and (ii) accommodate needs.
                                        Project, as is detailed in the draft Operations Manual.
5. Internal Audit              High     The Project activities will be subject to internal audit checks of the MoF.
                                        However, as these audits are transaction-based, rather than control-based,
                                        the Bank will not rely on the internal audit function of MoF.
6. External Audit              Low      An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank will audit the Project
                                        financial statements, in accordance with ToR acceptable to the Bank.
7. Reporting and Monitoring    Low      PMU has the capacity for Project reporting and monitoring. The FMRs
                                        will be provided to the Bank quarterly. Project reporting will be subject
                                        to regular Bank supervision.
8. Information Systems         Moderate PMU has implemented information systems, which are adequate to
                                        process and maintain Project-related data and produce required reports.
9. Control Risks at PBs        Low      No additional staff need to be hired at PBs. Existing accountants will
                                        handle the additional accounting and reporting functions for the Project
                                        using regular PBs' accounting policies and procedures. Each of the
                                        selected PB has an internal audit function which will regularly review the
                                        policies and procedures for granting loans and project accounting, in
                                        accordance with NBU regulations and conditions of the Bank as
                                        stipulated in the Loan agreement, Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
                                        Operations Manual. The PBs' financial statements prepared under
                                        requirements of IFRS will be audited at least annually. The FS of the PBs
                                        have been audited for at least each of the past 2 years.
Overall Control Risk          MODERATE



                                                  58

5.      Risk Mitigation Strategy

Although, the country financial management risk is moderate, the PMU has gained some
experience from implementation of the PPF for the Project. Training on financial management
and procurement will be provided by the Bank to the PMU and the PBs, as necessary.

The project financial management arrangements have been designed to mitigate the inherent risk
through a combination of intense Bank supervision, selection of PBs with strong accounting and
reporting systems, requiring audits of the PBs and Project financial statements, and monitoring
of periodic reports as described in the corresponding sections below.

6.      Strengths and Weaknesses

Strengths:

- Prior experience of PMU on working with the Bank during implementation of the PPF for the
  AFSP. Qualified staff have the required technical skills and are fluent in English.

- Strong PBs have been selected with unqualified audit reports for the past two years. The PBs
  have some prior experience of working with other international organizations. The PBs will
  also have strong financial management systems.

- A procedure will be implemented for prior review by the Bank of first two sub-loans of each
  PB and of each sub-loan in excess of US$1 million. In addition, the maximum sub-loan
  amount will be US$1.5 million.

- Training workshop for FM and Procurement specialists at PMU and PBs will be held by the
  Bank.

Weaknesses:

  - The Project involves a number of components and on-lending to PBs: as a result, FMRs will
  require close monitoring by the Bank.

  - the PMU has not been involved in previous Bank-funded projects.

  - No reliable internal audit at the PMU level.

7.      Implementing Entity

The MoF is the main counterpart for the Project. Funds for Component A would be on-lent by
the MoF to qualified PBs under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank. For
Subcomponent A1, the PBs would make subloans to the final beneficiaries (RSMEs, agricultural
enterprises and SNGs). Subcomponent A2 will be on-lent by the MoF to the PBs for their
institutional/IT development needs. MoF, through the PMU, will administer and manage the
funds and activities for Components B and C.


                                                59

PMU: The PMU, headed by a Director, has been established and adequately staffed. The PMU
is responsible for the overall administration of the project, coordination with the beneficiary
agencies and reporting to the Bank and the MoF. The PMU will be responsible for all fiduciary
functions: management of flow of funds, preparation of financial reports and audits.

PBs: PBs will have the key role in implementing Component A of the project. Subloans to final
beneficiaries will be made on commercial terms, in accordance with the policies and procedures
of the PBs. PBs will bear the commercial risk and will be responsible for subproject appraisal
and all lending decisions. Subloans to RSMEs could be made in US$ (for exporters) or UAH.

8.      Funds Flow and Disbursement Arrangements

For the purposes of the Project, the MoF through the PMU will open and manage a Special
Account (SA) in a Ukrainian commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. Measures, such as
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, in the case of a commercial bank
will have to be taken. The allocation to the SA for the Project will not exceed US$15 million.

The funds flow scheme assumes that project funds will flow from the Bank via the single Special
Account which will be replenished on the basis of SOEs, or by direct payment on the basis of
withdrawal applications. The Special Account will have two analytical sub-accounts for the
purpose of separate accounting for Component A and for Components B and C (these two
groups of Project Components are two lines in the State Budget). Co-financing provided by PBs
for Subcomponent A2 will not require any special accounts.

For Component A, the PBs will receive loan funds according to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements. These funds, at request of PMU, will be provided to the PBs through the Special
Account or by direct transfer of funds to the accounts of PBs against documented disbursements
for eligible subloans. For the purpose of receiving the Project funds, the PBs will not be required
to have a project account: they will only set up a separate account in their accounting systems to
record the receipt and transfer of the loan funds by the PBs.

The PMU will submit a replenishment application monthly, or sooner if desired, but quarterly at
the latest. A bank statement and reconciliation of the SA against the World Bank's records will
support the replenishment applications. The minimum amount for application for direct payment
and for special commitment is 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA.

Funds from the Bank Loan will be disbursed under transaction-based procedures including SOEs
and direct payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and
certificates, will be retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank during project
supervision. The Loan will finance 100 percent of the amounts disbursed against subloans. All
disbursements will be made on the basis of full documentation for (a) contracts for goods costing
more than the equivalent of US$500,000 each; (b) contracts for works costing more than the
equivalent of US$5,000,000 each; and (c) services under contracts of more than the equivalent of
US$200,000 for each consulting firm and more than the equivalent of US$100,000 each for
individual consultants. Disbursements below these thresholds, as well as for training, study tours,
for PMU operating costs, sub-loan agreements, and micro projects will be made according to the


                                                 60

Statement of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be made available for the required
audit as well as for Bank supervision missions, and will be retained for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
Disbursements for expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation of
full documentation relating to those expenditures.

9.      Staffing

PMU staff includes a financial management (FM) specialist. All PMU staff will be selected in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines for the appointment of individual consultants and
will have the minimum required qualifications as described in the Operations Manual. The
detailed job specifications are included in the Operations Manual. All PMU staff will be
employed on annual renewable contracts, subject to adequate performance.

Fiduciary functions of operating the Project will be performed by the financial management
specialist, who has worked with the Bank on implementation of PPF for the Project. These
functions include preparation or review of all documentation relating to requests of
disbursements and subsidiary loans, and all accounting and reporting functions. The FM
specialist will be supervised by the head of PMU, and report to the World Bank on all financial
management issues.

Existing employees of the PBs will perform the accounting and reporting for all transactions for
sub-borrowing and sub-lending within the Project. A qualified current employee of each PB will
be nominated for the preparation of Bank-specific documentation and reporting.

10.     Accounting Policies and Procedures

Accounting and reporting policies and procedures of the PMU are described in the draft
Operations Manual. In addition to the accounting and reporting to the Bank, PMU will also
maintain adequate accounting records to provide reports to the Treasury/MoF. The draft
Operations Manual prescribes detailed procedures including internal controls and internal
reporting to enable the PMU maintain appropriate accounting and reporting, acceptable to the
Bank.

In accordance with the accounting and reporting policies and procedures to be applied for the
project:
    ·    Reports will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and include all disclosure
        information required by the Bank.
    ·   All counterpart funds (if any) and co-financing of PBs will be reflected in the financial
        statements.

The director of PMU and the FMS will be responsible for ensuring that the prescribed
accounting policies and procedures are followed. This will also be monitored by the Bank during
at least annual supervisions.




                                               61

The internal controls procedures include internal authorizations, regular reconciliations of
accounts internally and with banks, segregations of duties within PMU, in-built software
controls, post-review, and are documented in detail in Operations Manual.

The first two sub-loans of each PB, all sub-loans to RSMEs of US$1.0 million equivalent and
above, and all subloans to SNGs would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The PMU would
review all such applications and provide their own recommendations on whether they meet the
eligibility criteria, prior to submission to the Bank. All other sub-loans would be subject to post-
review by the Bank. The maximum size of sub-loans for RSMEs and agricultural enterprises
would be US$1.5 million equivalent, unless the Bank, on an exceptional basis, agrees otherwise.

11.     Internal Audit

No reliance will be placed on the internal audit function of the MoF for the purpose of this
project, as the internal audit department of MoF uses transaction-based rather than control-based
approach to internal audit procedures.

12.     Reporting and Monitoring

Quarterly financial reports would be provided to the Bank on the basis of current PMU financial
reports and FMRs, which will include: (a) Financial Reports (sources and uses of funds by
components; Special Account statement) (b) Project Progress Reports; and (c) Procurement
Management Reports.

PMU will prepare these reports based on its own accounting information, and information
received from the PBs and other project beneficiaries. The PBs and other project beneficiaries
will forward their quarterly reports to the PMU for review and consolidation.

13.     Information Systems

The PMU has a standard off-the-shelf accounting software, modified for the purpose of
maintaining the accounting and reporting function. The internal system of the MoF will not be
used for the purpose of Project accounting and reporting. Reporting to meet Treasury/MoF
requirements will be done using the internal system of accounting and reporting of
Treasury/MoF.

The PBs will use their own accounting and reporting system. The PBs accounting systems are
able to maintain all accounting data on the project-related activities and produce required
reporting.

14.     Supervision Plan

During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the Project's financial management
arrangements in the following main ways:

    (i)     Review of the quarterly financial reports



                                                  62

    (ii)    Review of annual audited Project financial statements and audited PBs financial
            statements along with management letter
    (iii)   During the Bank's annual supervision missions:
            ·   Review of the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
            ·   Review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the Special Accounts to ensure
                compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements.

15.      Audit

The Project financial statements prepared will be audited under ISA by an acceptable auditor.
These financial statements will include information on counterpart financing. A management
letter will be provided along with the financial statements.

The PMU will also collect and forward to the Bank annual audited financial statements of the
PBs along with the management letter, as specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, within
six months after end of each fiscal year. The banks' financial statements will be prepared under
requirements of IFRS and will be audited under ISA by an acceptable auditor in accordance with
the acceptable ToR. Each PB will also provide letters, issued by the PB's auditor as well as by its
own management, certifying that it is in compliance with the eligibility criteria specified in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements. The letter of certification will be included in TOR for audit of the
PBs financial statements. The certification may be included in the full set of IFRS financial
statements of each PB.

All annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six months
after the end of each fiscal year. Each contract for the audit of the Project accounts will be
awarded during the first year of Project implementation and thereafter extended annually with
the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance of the appointed auditor. The cost of the
Project audit may be financed from the proceeds of the Loan.

16.     Action plan

       Required action                                             Responsible Due date

  1. Finalize the Operations Manual                                PMU             Before effectiveness

17.     Disbursement Arrangements

The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table A1:
                                    Table A1: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
  Expenditure Category                        Amount in US$       Financing Percentage
  1. Goods, Works, Consultants Services,
     Subloans, Financial Leases, Training        147,803,000      100%
     and Incremental Operating Costs
  2. Project Preparation Facility Advance           1,822,000     Amount due under section 2.02 (b) of
                                                                  Loan Agreement
  Total Project Costs with Bank Financing        149,625,000
  Front-end fee                                       375,000
  Total                                          150,000,000



                                                     63

                                      Annex 8: Procurement
                UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May, 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Loan/Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements
in institutional capacity.

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the May 2006 issue of the
Development Business and in dgMarkets announcing goods and consulting services to be
procured and inviting interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest and to
request any complementary information from the Borrower. Specific Procurement Notices
(SPN) will be published in the on-line edition of the Development Business for all ICB contracts,
and in the printed edition at the option of the Borrower. For goods to be procured through ICB,
individual bidding opportunities will also be advertised in a major local newspaper on the same
(or within 5) day(s) of the on-line publication. The local advertisements will be in the English
language and, at the option of the Borrower, will also be in the local language. For consultants'
contracts above US$200,000, SPN/Request for Expression of Interest will be advertised in on-
line edition of the Development Business and in at least one major national newspaper of wide
circulation (in the national and English languages). No advertising will be mandatory in respect
of any Contract procured using commercial practices. Civil servants can be hired as individual
consultants or as members of a team with financing under the Loan provided they are on leave of
absence without pay and they have not been working for any of the Beneficiary Agencies
immediately prior to taking leave of absence.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this Project may include minor investments
under Subcomponent A1 (Line of Credit). It is envisaged that for all contracts estimated to cost
less than US$2 million procurement will be done under Commercial Practices. However, for all
contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$2 million, the procurement will be done using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB and agreed documents where works are
procured under NCB. It is envisaged that all works where estimated value per contract is less
than US$5 million but more than US$2 million may be procured using NCB procedures. In
cases where Works are related to the construction of new buildings the Bank would require that
the beneficiary should have a clear title to the land prior to commencing the investment. It is not
envisaged that there will be any works contracts under any of the other components. For any
refurbishments and preparation works which are relatively small (less than $100,000 equivalent
per site) a shopping procedure (see below) may be used using the Minor Works SBDs.




                                                  64

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project will be procured under all
Components. Under Subcomponent A1 (Credit Line) goods estimated to cost less than US$2
million per contract may be procured in accordance with established commercial practices.
However, any recipients that fall under the requirements of the Ukraine Law on Public
Procurement must use the appropriate procurement methods and procedures included in the Law
for contracts up to that amount, and for contracts above this threshold to follow the procedures
outlined below. Under Subcomponents A2 and Component B, goods financed by the Loan will
include the procurement of several large contracts for information technology (IT) equipment
and software and some small contracts for IT, software and ancillary equipment. Major IT
equipment contracts will include the delivery of incidental services including installation,
commissioning and training of recipients in their use and maintenance. For all goods estimated
to cost above US$2 million per contract under Component A and all goods procured under the
remaining Components, in so far as possible procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for
all ICB (in the case of IT equipment the specific information systems documents for single and
two stage Bidding will be used) and National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank.
However, for the supply of specific specialized equipment, where there is a limited number of
suppliers, an LIB procedure may be used. This is recommended and justified by the fact that
there are only a limited number of firms who can provide this equipment.

In so far as possible goods will be packaged in the most economic way possible to reduce the
number of individual procurement procedures and considering project objectives, and into
package sizes that would encourage competitive bidding. The following methods would be used:

    (i)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods under subcomponent A2 and
           components B and C of the Project for contracts above US$500,000 equivalent per
           contract will be procured using ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's
           Procurement Guidelines. In the evaluation of bids for goods procured through ICB,
           domestic preference would apply in accordance with the provisions of the
           Procurement Guidelines. The latest Bank Standard Bidding Document (SBD) for the
           Procurement of Goods, or Procurement of Information Technology will be used, as
           appropriate, using single or two stage bidding depending on the complexity of the
           procurement.

    (ii)   Limited International Bidding (LIB). For goods where there are a limited number of
           manufacturers or suppliers who are known to the Borrower Limited International
           Bidding may be used. This procedure will be implemented in accordance with
           paragraph 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines. A detailed list of items and names of
           all potential suppliers, as well as bidding documents, will be submitted to the Bank
           for prior review and approval.

    (iii)  Shopping (SH) procedure will be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods,
           including office and computer equipment for the Beneficiary Agencies and for minor
           computer equipment for the PCU. All items, estimated to cost less US$100,000
           equivalent per contract, would have standard specifications. This procedure will be
           based on obtaining and comparing price offers from at least three suppliers from at
           least two different countries in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of Procurement
           Guidelines. It is recommended that the World Bank shopping site be used to draw up


                                                65

            shortlists for simple computer equipment. The ECA Regional sample format for
            shopping "Invitation to Quote" should be used. In the case of Works Shopping
            procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000
            equivalent.

    (iv)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Under subcomponent A1 and components B
            and C, goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, and Works
            estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 under Subcomponent A1, may be procured
            according to NCB procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
            Bank's Procurement Guidelines using documents agreed with and acceptable to the
            Bank and taking into account the exceptions indicated in the Loan Agreement.

    (v)     Direct Contracting. Where certain goods are of a proprietary nature and are available
            only from a particular supplier or in cases where compatibility with existing
            equipment so requires goods may be procured under Direct Contracting (Single
            Source) having obtained prior approval from the Bank (in accordance with para. 3.6
            of the Procurement Guidelines).

Procurement of non-consulting services: At this stage it is not foreseen to procure any non-
consulting services.

The various Sub-projects under Subcomponent A1 will be financed jointly by the project's
credit line through PBs and by final beneficiaries' own funds.              The above procurement
thresholds will apply to the total contract value for a sub-project, regardless of the percentage of
Bank financing provided.

In no case will the goods and works under subcomponent A1 of Component A be procured by
sub-borrowers and PBs from a source or a business entity in which that sub-borrower or PB has a
financial or business interest.

Selection of Consultants: Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged to combine
related skills and services in order to make them attractive for competition and reduce the
number of contracts to be administered, taking into consideration the size and capacity of the
PMU. To the extent practicable, training activities will be incorporated with consulting services
contracts. Consultant services consist of short-and long-term assignments to be contracted with
firms and/or individuals (national and/or foreign or jointly) depending on the nature and duration
of the assignments. Selection procedures will be managed through competition among qualified
short listed consultants. The short lists for consultant services contracts with firms shall comprise
six firms with a wide geographical spread, and with no more than two firms from any one
eligible country. The procurement of consultant services contracts financed under the Loan will
be in accordance with the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines. For consulting assignments
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent per contract, expressions of interest will be obtained by
advertisement in the Development Business (on-line), supplemented with notices issued in the
national press.

Under Subcomponent A1 of component A, contracts for consultancy, technical assistance or
training, estimated to cost up to US$200,000, may be procured in accordance with established


                                                  66

commercial practices. Recipients that fall under the requirements of the Ukraine Law on Public
Procurement must use the appropriate procurement methods and procedures included in the Law
for contracts up to that amount, and for contracts above this threshold to follow the normal Bank
procedures outlined in this section.

Short lists of consultant firms for services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

The following procurement procedures will be used for selection of consultant services:

    (i) Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section II, paras
         2.1 to 2.31 of the Consultant Guidelines will be used for assignments under all
         Components of the Project;

    (ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure will be used for selection of an auditor to carry
         out audit of the Financial Statements of the Project.

    (iii) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) will be used for contracting firms
         for certain assignments under all components of the project for which the value of the
         assignments is estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract and
         where it is considered that a small team of specialists would be more beneficial than a
         single individual.

    (iv) Individual Consultants (IC). Many specialized activities where specific skills are
         needed for short periods of time at scattered intervals and which would not be practical
         to package with the assignments for consulting firms described above, will be best
         served through the recruitment of individual consultants (both foreign and national). In
         some cases there may also be a need for a long term individual adviser. Selection of
         individual consultants will be carried out in accordance with Section V of the
         Consultant Guidelines. Individuals will be selected on the basis of their qualifications
         for the assignment by comparing the CVs obtained in response to an advertisement in
         the national press or Development Business. PMU staff will be selected as individual
         consultants;

    (v) Sole Source (SS). The method will be used for certain individuals with prior approval
         of the Bank in accordance with paras. 3.9 to 3.13 of the Consultants Guidelines.

Training Activities: Training is an integral element of the project's capacity building objective.
The Loan will finance training programs, including training workshops, study tours and local
training. Such training programs will be included in larger TA contracts with firms to reduce
administrative burden on the PMU. The PMU will be responsible for administration of a small
number of local workshops (including project launch, mid term and completion workshops) and
a number of study tours for the Beneficiary Agencies and PMU specialists. Expenses for study
tours and off-the-shelf training related to the project would be covered under training category.
The Bank will periodically review and clear the list of proposed study tour candidates, the nature
of the study tour(s)/training, the place and period of the study tour(s), estimated costs, etc.


                                                 67

Expenditures related to such training activities include: (a) for local training and workshops ­ per
diems of participants to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence; minor organizational
expenses (stationery, handouts, training materials, coffee breaks); (b) for international study
tours ­ international travel and visa costs, per diems (lodging and subsistence) and course-related
expenses (fixed tuition or participation fee). Design of the training courses and study tours may
be carried out by the specialists contracted as short term consultants under relevant QCBS, CQ
and/or IC procedures depending on the value of the assignment as described above in this Annex.

The PMU is expected to prepare and agree a training plan with the Bank every year. Estimated
budget, list of participants and draft agenda for each training event will be subject to Banks prior
review. Expenditure items for training activities, including study tours, will be reported under
SOEs. The status of the training plan will be included as part of the quarterly progress reports,
and will be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the coordination units
and the Bank.

Operating Costs: Incremental operating costs incurred by the PMU for communications and
office supplies will be financed under the Credit for the duration of the project. In addition,
recurrent costs related to operating and maintenance of equipment provided under the project for
the PMU and generated by the project, including the day-to-day operational costs for office
equipment and maintenance, consumables, will be financed by the government.

Others: No Special Arrangements

The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for works and goods procured, are presented in the Project Operations Manual.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Country Issues
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for the Ukraine was finalized in 2001 and
indicates a "high" risk based on the assessment of the country's national procurement system.
This CPAR has recently been updated, unfortunately this assessment has revealed a significant
deterioration in the public procurement framework (both the legislative and institutional). The
changes made to the PPL in 2004 and 2005 make the current Law largely at variance with
international standards and as such, together with the current institutional framework make it
unacceptable for use in the context of "certification for use of country systems" under World
Bank financed projects.      This is due to shortcoming concerning the following fundamental
issues:
a)     lack of clarity in respect of the current institutional structure of procurement;
b)     lack of standard bidding documents and standard contract forms;
c)     lack of recognition of consultancy services in the PPL;
d)     lack of clear written procedures for tendering, evaluation and contracting;
e)     overuse of restrictions, exemptions and exceptions from PPL thus restricting competition;
f)     unrestricted use of a merit points system leading to ineffective, un-transparent and costly
procurement;



                                                  68

g)      apparent coercive practices forcing procuring entities to make expenditures which are not
in the public interest;

There is also a concern regarding the ability of the local marketplace to provide a robust
competitive bidding environment at the current NCB thresholds, if during implementation it is
shown that only one or two Bidders are in a position to participate in the Bidding process, the
Borrower may ultimately face higher costs from lack of competition. Therefore the Bank will
need to address the issue of marketplace capacity as evidenced in the results of Bidding in the
first year of the project. Evidence of a limited market may indicate a need to scale back and
lower thresholds, thus allowing greater opportunity for international competition where local
markets are sparse.

A short review of Commercial Practices in Ukraine was undertaken during pre-appraisal in
October 2005 of the proposed Export Development Project (which is being processed in parallel
with this operation). The review revealed that significant changes and improvements had
occurred in recent years as companies came to understand that they could look beyond their
traditional suppliers. The most common practice now being followed is market research using
such tools as the internet, attendance at conferences, professional exhibitions etc., followed by
more direct approaches to companies identified as being potential suppliers. In most cases,
Invitations to Quote are sent to the top 3 or 4 identified companies, and selection is based on the
optimal combination of price and other factors (quality, delivery, etc.). There is, however, a
remaining concern about the ability of the local marketplace to provide a robust competitive
bidding environment. This will be closely monitored by the Bank during the Ex-Post review
process of commercial practices.

An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement actions
for the project was carried out by the Procurement Accredited Specialist (PAS) assigned to the
project during appraisal in February 2006. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure
for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance. Overall
responsibility for procurement management will rest with the PMU. The PMU is staffed with a
Director, a procurement specialist and procurement assistant, in addition to other staff.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the project have been
identified and include lack of experience in implementing all the required procurement methods.
In particular procurement of IT technologies has been identified as an area where the PMU may
need strengthening. The corrective measures which have been agreed include the hiring of short-
term experienced Consultants. In addition the following Action Plan to strengthen the conduct
of procurement and the capacity at the Implementing Agency is recommended:

-    procurement staff of the Ministry of Finance, as the implementing agency, should be given
     the opportunity to attend intensive public procurement training in either English or Russian
     language, offered by ILO Turin;
-    briefings and training will be provided for senior management and the members of the
     Tender Committee in Bank procurement procedures.
-    technical assistance for the large IT procurement packages will be obtained.



                                                 69

-    consulting services for assistance in preparation of design and supervision tender
     documentation will be provided;
-    the project will be subject to intense supervision by the Bank with close monitoring of
     activities;
-    initiating a Project Launch Workshop before effectiveness, as part of the project
     implementation/capacity building initiatives, especially in procurement.         This will be
     supplemented by further training for procurement staff and members of Evaluation
     Committees;
-    conduct of annual joint reviews of the Procurement Plan and review of contracts that will be
     subject to prior review.
-
The overall project risk for procurement is High.

C. Procurement Plan

The Procurement Plan contains all the relevant procurement information, including prior review
thresholds for Bank financed contracts. For procurement under the Loan, with the exception of
items procured under commercial practices the Borrower will use the Bank's latest Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD), Standard Form of Consulting Contracts and Request for Proposals
(RFP), and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms. For NCB procedures acceptable Bidding
Documents will be agreed. The Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of Information
Systems will be used for procurements of all IT equipment estimated to cost over US$100,000
per contract. These will comprise Supply and Installation of Information Systems - Single Stage
Bidding or Supply, and Installation of Information Systems - Two Stage Bidding (both version
March 2003 or more recent). Also, the sample procurement documents and forms developed in
ECA Region for small value procurement will be adapted to suit the Project needs for
procurement as outlined in the Operations Manual.

It is not possible to estimate who the sub-borrowers may be, nor their procurement requirements
for Subcomponent A1 of Component A of the Project. Therefore, it is not possible for the
Borrower to develop a Procurement Plan which provides the basis for the procurement methods
for individual contracts for this Component. For Subcomponent A2 and Components B and C,
the Borrower has developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which provides the
basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed between the Borrower and the Bank on
May 22, 2006 and is available at the offices of the PMU. It will also be available in the project's
database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement
with the Bank annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity. Procurement of goods, works and services for the project
will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended two supervision missions per year to
visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. It is envisaged that 2 out of every
5 procurements will be reviewed ex-post.



                                                 70

E. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition

1. Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services
(a) List of contract packages to be procured following ICB, NCB and direct contracting:
    See Procurement Plan (below)

(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above $500,000 equivalent per contract (for Goods), NCB
    contracts estimated to cost above $300,000 equivalent per contract (for Goods), and all direct
    contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All ICB and the first two NCB
    contracts will also be subject to prior review. All ICB contracts for Works, all NCB
    estimated to cost above $3,000,000 equivalent per contract and the first two NCB contracts
    shall also be subject to Prior Review.

2. Consulting Services
(a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms:
    See Procurement Plan (below)

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $200,000 equivalent per contract for firms and
    $100,000 equivalent per contract for individuals and single source selection of consultants
    will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The first CQ contract and first two IC contract
    irrespective of price will also be subject to Prior Review

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
    estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
    national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
    Guidelines.




                                                  71

                                 PROCUREMENT PLAN

I. General
1.    Agreed Date of the procurement Plan
      Original    : May 22, 2006
      Revision 1 :....................

      Date of General Procurement Notice: estimated May 2006

II. Goods and Works and non consulting services

1.    Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as
      stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement :

      Procurement Method         Prior Review                        Comments
                                  Threshold
 1.   ICB and LIB (Goods)     > $500,000         All subject to Prior Review
 2.   NCB (Goods)             > $300,000         First 2 and all subject to prior review
 3.   Shopping (Goods)        < $100,000         None
 4.   Direct Contracting*     -                  All subject to Prior Review
 5.   ICB (Works)             > $5,000,000       All subject to Prior review
 6.   NCB (Works)             > $3,000,000       First 2 and all subject to prior review
 7.   Shopping (Works)        < $100,000         First works contract subject to prior review
 8.   Minor Works             < $100,000         First works contract subject to prior review
 9.   Commercial Practices    Any                First for each PFI
       * all Contracts subject to justification

2.    Pre-qualification. Bidders shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of
      paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines (No pre-qualification is envisaged)
3.    CDD Procurement Manual: Project components to be carried out by community
      participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.17: No CDD is envisaged
4.    Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: Commercial Practice.                     Contracts
      resulting from on lending to financial intermediaries, initially estimated to cost less than
      US$2 million, to be reviewed may be procured using established private sector
      (commercial) practices, which are acceptable to the Bank.              In the event that the
      Beneficiary funds are usually subject to the Law on Public Procurement the procurement
      shall be in accordance with the provisions of the said Law.
5.    Procurement Items with Methods and Time Schedule: See below




                                               72

III. Selection of Consultants

    1. Prior Review Threshold: Selection Decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated
       in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:

             Selection Method               Prior Review                 Comments
                                             Threshold
 1.    Competitive Methods (Firms)      > $200,000            All subject to prior review
       QCBS
 2.    Competitive Methods (Firms)      Any amount            First contract subject to prior
       LCS                                                    review
 3.    Competitive Methods (Firms)      < $200,000            First contract subject to prior
       CQ                                                     review
 4.    Individual Consultants (IC)      > $100,000            First 2 contracts and all subject to
                                                              prior review
 5.    Single Source (Firms and         -                     All subject to prior review
       Individuals)*
 6.    ToRs for Consulting Contracts    All methods/values    All subject to prior review
 7.    Commercial Practices             Any                   First for each PB
* all Contracts subject to justification

    2. Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for
       services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise
       entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the
       Consultant Guidelines.

    3. Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: Commercial Practice. Contracts resulting
       from on lending to financial intermediaries, initially estimated to cost less than
       US$200,000, to be reviewed may be procured using established private sector
       (commercial) practices, which are acceptable to the Bank.             In the event that the
       Beneficiary funds are usually subject to the Law on Public Procurement the procurement
       shall be in accordance with the provisions of the said Law;

    4. Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule: See below

IV. Other
    1. Ex-Post Review: All other contracts below Bank's prior review threshold are subject to
       Bank's selective ex-post review.        Periodic ex-post review by Bank staff will be
       undertaken during regular supervision missions. Procurement documents, such as bidding
       documents, bids, bid evaluation reports and correspondence related to bids and contracts
       will be kept readily available for Bank's ex-post review during supervision missions or at
       any other points in time. Bank missions will review at least 2 out of every 5 contracts
       which are subject to ex-post review.

Record Keeping: The PMU will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed
by Bank supervision missions. All procurement related documentation that requires Bank prior
review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. Procurement information


                                                 73

will be recorded by the PMU and submitted to Bank as part of the quarterly (FMRs) and annual
progress reports. A simple management information system with a procurement module would
be established to assist the PMU procurement specialists to monitor all procurement information.




                                              74

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                         ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70-                                                                                                                                                  70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      07

                                                                                                                                                           ntra                                                                                         letiop                                14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /AN                            /AN                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            /AN                                                                                   /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ar-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N/A                                                                                    Jun-07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Apr-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -0gu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Apr-
                                                                                                                                                               Co                                                                                             m                                                  /AN                                                                                              /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l-07uJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2-                                                                                                               3-                                                                                                           ug-A-2                                                                                                                                                                             N/A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9-Mar                                                                                                                                                   25-                                                                                                               un-07J-4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N/A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25-                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14-                                                                                                                     9-Apr                                                                                                          -A82                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N/A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 29-


                                                                                                                                                                 ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                   ra                                                                                            gnin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               07                                                                                                               07                                                                                                               70-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         07                                                                                                                                                    07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 07-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                31                  N/A                                                                                              N/A                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                            N/A                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            N/A                                                                                   N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                 /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                            Feb-                                                                                                              Mar                                                                                                                                                                          /AN                                                                                                                           an-J                                                                                                                                                  n-aJ                                                                                                                 70-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Apr                                                                                                                         Mar                                                                                                                                      /AN                                                                                  eb-07F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r-0a                                                                                                                /AN                                                                                                                        eb-07F                                                                                                                                                                                                 /AN
                                                                                                                                                                     Cont                                                                                            sig                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n-aJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Feb-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3-                                                                                                               3-                                                                                                               5-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8-                                                                                                                                                    24-                                                                                                                    5-                                                                                                                          6-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13-                                                                                                                       8-                                                                                                           M-13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            06-                                                                                                              07                                                                                                               07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          07                                                                                                                           70                                                                                                                                                                                                                               07                                                                                                                       07                                                                                                             7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ar-
                                         )1                                                                                                                              ER                                                                                                                       21                   /AN                                                                                              /AN                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                            /AN                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            /AN                                                                                   /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n-a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n-a                                                                                                                      an-                                                                                                           -0ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Feb-                                                                                                                                                                     N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mar-                                                                                                                            M                                                                                                                                N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N/A                                                                                                                                eb-F                                                                                                                                                                                           N/A

                                           e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19-Dec                                                                                                             9-J1                                                                                                              18-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24-Dec                                                                                                                                              an-07J-9                                                                                                                    21-                                                                                                                          11-                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29-J                                                                                                                     24-J                                                                                                           -M61                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13-

                                                                                                                                          set                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                07                                                                                                                                                                                                                               07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               07
                                            Phast
                                                 ec                                                                                          dadtea                        ingnepO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60                                                                                                               70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           60-                                                                                                                                                   60-                                                                                                                    07-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11                    N/A                                                                                              N/A                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                            N/A                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            N/A                                                                                   N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                 /AN

                                                                                                                                                   mi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ec-D-4                                                                                                           an-J-4                                                                                                         eb-07                                                                                                                                                                /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r-0a                                                                                                    /AN                                                                                                                                      n-aJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -F3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dec-9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Feb-                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n-aJ                                                                                                                     n-aJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5-Dec2                                                                                                                 6-Mar                                                                                                                           4-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14-                                                                                                                      9-                                                                                                            M-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   /AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29-

                                                   Proj                                                                                              Est
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                       the                                                                                                                        singi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -06                                                                                                              70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 60                                                                                                                    07                                                                                                                            70                                                                                                                                                                                                                               06-                                                                                                                     06-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             60-

                                                          of                                                                                                                           ert                                                                                                            01                      N/A                                                                                             N/A                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                            /AN                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            /AN                                                                                   /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -0n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                         Nov-06
                                                                                                                                                                                          dvA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4-                                                                                                            Dec-5                                                                                                           an-J-4                                                                                                                                                        N/A                                                                                                                                         Nov-06                                                                                                                                                   Nov-                                                                                                                  Feb-                                                                                                                          an-J                                                                                                                    N/A                                                                                                       Dec                                                                                                                     Dec
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9-                                                                                                                                                     25-                                                                                                                   4-                                                                                                                            25-                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5-1                                                                                                                     0-1                                                                                                          -Ja03                                                                                           N/A                                                                                                                                             Dec                                                                                                                                                                               N/A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30-


                                                            months                                                                                                                           P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06-

                                                                  18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                              RF                                                                                                                                 /AN                                                                                             /AN                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70-n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N/A                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            N/A                                                                                   N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                 /AN                                                                                                              06t-cO                                                                                                           60                                                                                                               60-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dec                                                                                                                                                     /AN                                                                                                                                              06t-cO                                                                                                                                                  06                                                                                                                   07                                                                                                                             07                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60                                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n-a                                                                                                                            an-                                                                                                               /AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0-2                                                                                                          0-Nov-2                                                                                                              0-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25-                                                                                                                                                 0-Nov-1                                                                                                                 20-J                                                                                                                           0-J1                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0-Nov-3                                                                                                                 5-Nov-2                                                                                                          Ja-51                                                                                     /AN                                                                                                                                                   Dec                                                                                                                                                                         /AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5-1
                                                                    first                                                                                                                       o

PROJECT                                                                  the

                                                                            fortne                                                                                                               catifiilau                                                             n                                8                          N/A                                                                                             N/A                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                            /AN                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            /AN                                                                                   /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                  /AN                                                                                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                    N/A                                                                                                              N/A                                                                                                              N/A                                                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                    N/A                                                                                                                                                     N/A                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                            N/A                                                                                                           N/A                                                                                                                N/A                                                                                                                     N/A                                                                                                            A/N                                                                                     N/A                                                                                                                                                      N/A                                                                                                                                                                      N/A

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Preq
                                                                                  m
       SERVICES                                                                                                                                                                                                od                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B                                                                    B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B                                                                                     B
               L                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                                   /AN                                                                                             /AN                                                                                                                                                                              CB/I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CP                          IC/PC                                                                IC/PC                                                                                                                                                                                                          CB/I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CP                          IC/PC                                                                                 IC/PC                                                                                                                                                                                               CI                                                                                                                                                  CI                                                                                                                     CI                                                                                                               CI                                                                                                                                            CI                                                                                                                                                                                           CI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CI                                                             CI                                                                                                                      IC                                                                                                                                                  CI                                                                                                                   CI                                                                                     CI                                                                                                                                                                       CQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C-I
                                                                                   procure
                NCIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         es

                    FINA                                                                  ailedt                                                                                                                     fo.                                                   agk                            67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N/A                                                                                             N/A                                                                                                                                                                                 /AN                            N/A                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                             /AN                            N/A                                                                                   N/A                                                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                      1                                                                                                                                                                           3


                        TO                                                                      (de                                                                                                                     No                                                    pac
                                                                                                   01                                                                                                                     ior                                                    ewi
                                                                                                     -20                                                                                                                     Pr                                                                                                              /AN                                                                                             /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oN                                                                                                               oN                                                                                                                                           o1N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           seY                                                                                                                                                     seY                                                                                                                  seY                                                                                                                            seY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                esY                                                                                                                     Yes                                                                                                                                                o1N                                                                                                                                                                                                          seY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rev
                          CCESSA                                                                        06
                                                                                                          20                                                                                                                   y

                                                                                                            1:                                                                                                                                                                                              34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CL                                                                     CL                                                                   CL                                                                                                                                                                              CL                                                             CL                                                                                    CL                                                                                                                    CS                                                                       SC                                                                                                                                                  SC                                                                                                                       SC                                                                                                               SC                                                                                                                                            SC                                                                                                                                                                                         CS                                                                                 CS                                                                                                                                                      SC                                                                                                                   SC                                                                                                                             CS                                                                                                                                                               CS                                                                SC                                                                                                                      SC                                                                                                                                                 SC                                                                                                                 CS                                                                                        CS                                                                                                                                                                       SC
                                INE:                                                                          SE                                                                                                                ategorC                                                                                                         N/A                                                                                             N/A



                                    UKRA                                                                        PHA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ntlI(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             k

                                                                                                                   THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                or

                                                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ted                                                                                                                                                 gnti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ialcnaniF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n;io                                                                                              ionat                                                                                                                                                  laitned

                                                                                                                       FO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NK"                                                                                                                                                                                     MTd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ulat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pruI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 laitne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      recas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ecnanifevtira
                                                                                                                         N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fo;6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SNG                                                                                                                                         ant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nda                                                                                              FIBN                                                                                                                                                    NBFeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            no                                                                                                                                   udrps                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  amewrf


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            meploe                                             legal

                                                                                                                          PLA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -230                                                                                          LAT                                         crocrediimd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lopme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NK"ABT                                                                                   OMBARP                                            AND                                                      1.2rofla                                                                     2nd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  reg                                                                                            guler


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     en                                                                  2.2r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       isivre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                2                                                                                                                                             3                                  ision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fundn                                                                                                         detaco                                                                                                     en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dev                                               and                                                                                                                                                             coopere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dev                                                                                 RA"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R                                                             ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ork                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ov                                                                 de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               opmle                                                                 fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               alt                                                                                                                                                                                       CIl                                                                                                              CIl                                                                                                                                           CIl                                    rv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            noisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                unall                                                                                                  lopme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ew

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2                                                       YTIL                                                                                         SUB                                                 cenanif                                                                                                                                                                                                                NK"A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      onittuis                                                                          ADN"                                                                                                      RYVAP"                                                                                                                                                                                                  Subt                                                                                                                                                                                                               edatcollanu,gninehtg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pmento                                                                                                                                                                noisi                                                              cato

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SECTO                                                                                                                                                                                                                Subto                                                                            rents                                                                                                    calo                                                                                                             calo                                                                                                                                          calo                                  supero                                                                                        oniisv                                                                                                                                                 oftneme                                                                                                                                     pervus                                                                                                                  suplaitne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             prov                                                                                                                                       ialt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ent,me                                                                                                 devci                                                                                                           ce                                                                                                                                                                 amrf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                                                                                                                                   al                                             devel                                                                                                                                                                rv                                                                unall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LINE;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FACI                                                                                                                                                                                   "                                                                                                                                                                                OMBRP                                                                                                                                      nkab                                                                                                        nkab                                                                               REDYTK"knab                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                            u;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        reau                                                                                                    ent,mp                                                                                                           ent,mp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         elg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tona                                                                                                        to                                                                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               reauB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rategts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nt,emploe                               sectIF                                                                                        perus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         udrpe                                                                                                                         nsioepetavirp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ialnt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             den                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               &e

                                                                                                                             PROCUREMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NO                                                                                                                                                 rurofeniL                                                                                                                               NK"ABT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            devecnanifega                                                                                                                                                     it                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    gicetarts                                                                                                                                                         peusdna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Develo                                                                                                           Develo                                                                                                                                           Dev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CREDIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            edit                                                                              Cred                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NBot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             U,SCAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ude                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pruec                                                                                                                      naif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       hancnekrow                                                                                                                                                                                                           rnevog                                                                                             orctes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ):A(1                                                    editrC                  RADAN"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       InrofeniL                                                                                                                                                                                       anoL                                                                                      anoLt                                                                                                 Finance;egagtro                                                                          rtgom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBTOTAL;                                           M                                                                              to                                                                  Cr:                                                                               to                                                                                                      tegya                                                                                                            tegya                                                                                 egy                                                                                           TA:                                                                                                ont                            detaco                                                                                                        imdnascitcon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ort                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    agdi                                                                                                                                   ranusin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        surni

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Str                                                                                                              Str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                mearf                                                                                              ctoresIF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NBFI                                                                                                                   emtsys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NB                                                                                                    corporate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      locat                                                                                                                      ionatlugre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1:t                   nkab                                                                                                   RYVAP"knab                                                              REDYTK"knab                                                      editrC                                                                         ntemp                                                                                                       entm                                                                                       enm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2:t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lope                            NANCIALIF:)B(2                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rattS                                                                                            2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pmento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      emst                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gatromno                                                                                                                                feilno                                                                                                            alg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       noitpric                                                                                                                                  PREPARATI        total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d                                           Fee                                                                                                en                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     en                esria          Develol                                                                                                                                            Developl                                                                                      Dev                                                                                                       2.1:tne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ppus                                                                                                       nal/                                                                                                             nal/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pporus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            le                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nanceif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nent                                                                                 cy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntta                                                                                                                                  ntta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Devel

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           pon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                al                                                                                                            onp                                                                                                 ngni                                             po                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             po       3.2rof                                                                                                               unall,)SC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ancy                                                                                                                                                                                syno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nsul                                                                                                                                  nsul                  no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                unal,tnem                                                                                                                                                   sn


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Des                                                                                                                                        ECTJORP       gate

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            aggre                                     EndtnorF                         ENTNOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M                                                                                 Lineit                                                                                                     toeniL                                                                   toeniL                                                                                  edi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOPM                                               mo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 vetia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                it                                                                       it                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENTNOP                                                                                                                                                                                                                        om                                                                               ltan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l/anoituitts                                                                                         om           alto                                                                                   ult                              c.oL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     orctes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ontnatlusnoC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CO                                                           bcomuS                    ed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cr                                                                                                         Cred                                                                     Cred                                                          bcomuS               rmet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 stitutionI                                                                                                       stitutionI                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In        situtionanI                                                                                                                                         situtionanI                                                                                tiontuis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In                                  CO                  DEVE                                             Subc                                                                pportusycnatlusnoC             ngtheerst                                        Subc                                                                               sunoC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             isivre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               isivre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CB                                                                                                               CB                                                                                 BC                                                                                       Subc           Subt                                                                                  onsC                                                                                                                                         ontnatlusnoC.lt                                                                                                                           ontnatlusnoC.lt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                       In                         sup                                                                                                            In                                                                                                                    Co.tlnI                                                                                                                               Co.tlnI                   sup                              BFIN                                                                                                                                             ontnatlusnoC.lt                                                                                              ontnatlusnoC.lt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In                                                                                                           In                                                                                         caloL                                                                                                                    ooperC                                                                                                                                                  ontnatlusnoC.lt                                                        utionalti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   enhance                                                                                                                               In             institutio                                        nsI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       erb                    1              0                                                                                                                                                                   LC                                                                                        LC                                                                     LC                                                                   LC                                                                                                      LC                                                            LC                                                                       LC                                                                                    LC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IC                                                                                                                                        IC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  emIt                                    num                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1-                                                                                      1.1.1-                                                                 1.1.2-                                                               1.1.3-                                                                                                  1.2-                                                          1.2.1-                                                                   1.2.2-                                                                                1.2.3-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.1.1-                                                                                                                                              2.2                                                                                                         IC-1.2.2                                                                                                         IC-2.2.2                                                                           IC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1-                                                                                                                                        2-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.2.3-                                                                                                                                                                                        2.3.1                                                                                                                                                         2.3.1.                                                                                                                                    2.3.1.                                                                                                                 CI-3.1.3.2                                                                                                                            CI-4.1.3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                            IC                                                                                                           IC                                                                                            IC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IC                                                                 -C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1-                                                                                                           2-                                                                                            3-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.3.2                                                                                                                                                             2.3.2.                                                                                                       2.3.2.                                                                                        2.3.2.                                                                                                                2.3.3                                                                                                                                                                  2.3.3.                                                           2.3.4-IC

                                                   ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ar
                                                     ntra                                                                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                                                   Apr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N/A                                                            N/A                                                                                                                                                                                         -0pe                                                                                                                  80-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10                                                                                  70-                                                                                                          07                                                                                   80-                                                                                              10                                                                                                                                               70-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s,tca
                                                         Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -S6                                                                                                                    M-4                                                                                                                                            N/A                                                                                                                                N/A                                                                                                                                          n-uJ                                                                                   M                                                                                                         n-uJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8-2                                                                                 17-                                                                                                          22-                                                                                 M-4                                                                                           un-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8-2                                                                                                                                             M-9                                                                                                                       N/A                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ent                                                                                                                                                                                   contr                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ppliesus                                                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ceif

                                                                                                                                                                                                              /AN                                                                                                                       b-eF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /AN                                                            /AN                                                                                                                                                                                              -0vo                                                                                                                  70-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60                                                                                  07                                                                                                           70                                                                                  70-                                                                                               60-                                                                                                                                             70-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ay                                                                                                                                          /AN                                                                                                                                /AN                                                                                                                                                Nov-                                                                                an-J                                                                                                         eb-F                                                                                 Mar                                                                                               Dec                                                                                                                                             Mar                                                                                                                    /AN                                                                                 /AN                                                                            SP                                                                                                                                                                                                        nagema                                                                                                                                                                                    oni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        vis
                                                           Contract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -N11                                                                                                                   M-9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Supply-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AF                                                                                                                                                                                                            m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of)d(,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16-                                                                                                          22-                                                                                 10-                                                                                               16-                                                                                                                                             10-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   super                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SI,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  epair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          07                                                                                                           07                                                                                  07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nancialif                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    &

                                                                   ER                                                                                                                                            N/A                                                                                                                            n-aJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70-                                                                                                                   70-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e                                                                                                                                                                                                     antstlu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N/A                                                            N/A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Oct-21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Apr                                                                                                                                    N/A                                                                                                                                N/A                                                                                                                                                      Nov-                                                                                Jan-                                                                                                         eb-F                                                                                eb-F                                                                                               Dec                                                                                                                                            eb-F                                                                                                              N/A                                                                                 N/A                                                                                  ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1-                                                                                  1-                                                                                                           7-                                                                                  23-                                                                                               1-                                                                                                                                              23-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               epar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                hm                                                                                                                                                                                 intenancea                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tenancnia
                                    tes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                07
                                       da                            ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   idual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      06-                                                                                                          07                                                                                                                                                                                    06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            prrof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tablis                                                                                                                                                                                     m,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   m


                                         teda                                                                                                                                                                       /AN
                                                                        Open                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an-J-9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /AN                                                            /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                          -0guA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13-                                                                                                              eb-F-8                                                                                                                             /AN                                                                                                                                /AN                                                                                                                                                         06t-cO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n,o                                                                                                                                                                                                        Indiv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dec                                                                                                         n-aJ                                                                                 an-J                                                                                             Nov-                                                                                                                                             an-J                                                                                                        /AN                                                                                 /AN                                                                                             loan                                                                                                                                                                                                            es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ­
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2-                                                                                  2-                                                                                                           8-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24-                                                                                              1-                                                                                                                                               24-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           es,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IC
                                             timsE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             edur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             07                                                                                                                  60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  06                                                                                  06                                                                                                                                                                                                 60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           advance                                                                                                                                                                                                              oc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nt:e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pr
                                                                            rtisinge                                                                                                                                   N/A                                                                                                                                       ec-D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N/A                                                            N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n-uJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         06t-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dec-                                                                                                                          N/A                                                                                                                                N/A                                                                                                                                                                Sep-                                                                                Nov-                                                                                                                                                                                               Dec-                                                                                              Oc                                                                                                                                              Dec-                                                                                                  N/A                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           documyrasse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Selection,t

                                                                                    Adv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                06-voN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17-                                                                                 7-1                                                                                                          9-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25-                                                                                             17-                                                                                                                                               25-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eem                                                                                                                                                                                                            the                                                                                                                                                                                    neclal                                                                                                                                                                                                                             equipm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ceif                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cost                                                                                                                                    line

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  06                                                                                  60                                                                                                                                                                                                 60-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Agr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Leas
                                                                                       FPR                                                                                                                                /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nov-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  /AN                                                            /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70-y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ma                                                                                                                Nov-                                                                                                                    /AN                                                                                                                                /AN                                                                                                                                                                      Sep-                                                                                Nov-                                                                                                      06t-cO                                                                                    Dec                                                                                          06t-cO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thiw

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dec                                                                                            /AN                                                                                 /AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of)c(                                                                                                                                                                                                         ­                                                                                                                                   editrc-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5-1                                                                                                                 10-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10-                                                                                 10-                                                                                                         5-2                                                                                    0-1                                                                                             0-1                                                                                                                                               0-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Letter                                                                                                                                                                                                         dancroc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LCS                                                                                                                                       CL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           epar

                                                                                          tio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         htiw                                                                                                                                                                                                         ac                                                                                                                                                                                       pr,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        intenanca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           loan,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L
                                                                                             lifica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N/A                                                                                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N/A                                                            N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N/A                                                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                                N/A                                                                                                                                                                          N/A                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                         N/A                                                                                    N/A                                                                                             N/A                                                                                                                                               N/A                                                                                         N/A                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                         e


                                                                                                   Prequa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ancdroc                                                                                                                                                                                                     esicvres                                                                                                                                                                                esiraiic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            d                                                                                                                                                                                                Selection,                                                                                                                                      ng,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          beneft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pairer                                                                                                                                                                                                  asedB                                                                                                                                    ainitr-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cost                                                                                                                                       RT,
                                                                                                         thode                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CQ                                                             CQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SI                                                                                                       SI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ojec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n,o

                                                                                                              M                                                                                                                 C-CQI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C-I                                                            C-I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TR                                                                                                                                 RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IC/S                                                                                                                                                                                           LCS                                                                                    QC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SH                                                                                          RT                                                                                  CO                                                                                                                                   ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     goods                                                                                                                                                                                            to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                       stsoc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                            e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  oper:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ent                                                                                                                                                                                          anct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             76
                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3                                                              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                   A/N                                                                                                                                A/N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             les                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13                                                                               4                                                                                                            4                                                                                     2                                                                                               5                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                                           /AN                                                                                 N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      em                                                                                                                                                                                            sis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Quality-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              advanc                                                                                                                                                                                                             ur                                                                                                                                                                                             as
                                                                                                                 No.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               oc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ation                                                                                                                                                                                                            pr,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ehicv)b(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          erpO-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QCBS


                                                                                                                    Prior                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            seY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         seY                                                                                                      Yes                                                                                                                   seY                                                                                                                                esY                                                                                                                                                                            Yes                                                                             esY                                                                                                          seY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                hnical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yes                                                                                             Yes                                                                                                                                               Yes                                                                                           Yes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 epar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                age,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pr                                                                                                                                                                                                         tivities                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ectoj                                                                                                                                                                                                            ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pos                                                                                                                                                                                            Bidding,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             escivres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CS                                                                                                                                                CS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CS                                                             CS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G                                                                                                        G                                                                                                                     TR                                                                                                                                 RT                                                                                                                                                                             SC                                                                              SC                                                                                                           CS                                                                                    SC                                                                                              SC                                                                                                                                                G                                                                                             RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            petitive
                                                                                                                         Category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                                                    3                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        edtsacerof                                                                                                                                                                                                  entation                                                                                                                                                                                      inister                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ultant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      isingt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       adm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cons-

                                                                                                                                                       4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ng,i                                                                                                                                                                                                                              adver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tegy,a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nesi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               imt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 national                                                                                                                                      CS,

                                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                 Str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        legal
                                                                                                                                                             alt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tionazi                                                                                                                                                                                nce                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                 bustemt                                                                                                             ONENTP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ONENTP                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ONEP                             AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ONENTP                                                                                                                               ONENTP                                                                             ONEP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ecoj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M                                                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                            ial                                                                                                                                                                                                                         unications,                                                                                                                                                                                              Inter-                                                                                                                                   goods-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fina                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ries                                                                                                                                                                     COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CO                                                                                                                                   CO                                                                              COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                deduc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                                                                Subto                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    inves                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pali                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ICB,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ficia                                                                                                                                                                   der                           BTUS;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  der                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nancif                                                                                                                                                                                                                               mo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ent:
                                                                                                                                                                     ent;                                                                               Minim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    relations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     under                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIR                                                                unde                                                                                                                                                                                                                               un                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          under                                                                                                                                under                                                                               un                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dination
(continued)1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             em
                                                                                                                                                                         emg                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                   unic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DS                                                       neeb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  thiw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      municipal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            oroc
                                                                                                                                                                            naa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NI                             ME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                telec)a(:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ocur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for
                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ofn                                                detacol                                                                                                                                                      MT2r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fosm                                                                                                  NBrofs                                                                                                                           vant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 )SC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          hopping)S(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GOO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ounting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            for                                                         reler                                                                                                                                                               AIRT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GOO                                                                                                                                      OT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NAGA                                                                                                                                                                             c.oL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for                                                                             AIRT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                krow                                                                                                                                                                                            of


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                anagement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NSUNTANCY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NSUNTANCY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BTUS                                                                                                                                                                       esented
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                                                                                                                             ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ecif                                                                                                                                                                                          ist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
            PHASE                                                                                                                                                               Riskl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          steys-                                                                                                  temsys-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mks                                                                                                                 gem                                                                                                                                                ernmental                                                                      ted                                                                                                                                               unal,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acc,s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cons                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pesyT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rii                                                                                                                 naam                                                          pmloe                                                                                                                                                               ca                                                                                      preparatio                                                                                                         COr                                                                                                     ITfo                                                                                                     ITfo                                                                                                                         othedna                                                                                                                                                                                            TC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          terialsam                                                           COr                                                                          U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               is)B(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shopping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nagema                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ent,


                 FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               devy                      5.2                                                                                                                                    allo                                                                                            for                                                                                                         fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CB                                                                                                                                                             LATO                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Intl.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fo                                                                                                                               OTALT                                                                               LATO                                                 ;TSOC                                                                                                                                                                                2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                stsoc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UA.                                                                                                                                                                                m                                                                                                                                                                                           emtsys
                                                                                                                                                                                     riculturagA                                                                               Agr                                                                                                                  Riski                                                                                       for                                                      intergov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                     unt,                                                                                                                                          hopsskrow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ication;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    for                              rticipantsap                                                                                                                                               PROJE                                                                                                                                                                                  PMU                                                                                                                                                                                ities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MProf                                                      SUB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on                                                                                                                                                                                   Polic                       alt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             related                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ***                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ide:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                anagem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         installation                                                                                             installation                                                                                                                         g:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUBT                            ):                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                   tiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m                                                                                                                                                                                         ngtia                   e                                                                                                                                                                       National-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Qualif
                    PLAN                                                                                                                                                                        2.4:t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      oper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pportus                                                                                                              Agrno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4020-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5:2.                                                                                   viewer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALTOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALTOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ponents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ncemen                                                                                     guidelines                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ablic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pport                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H)S(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nt                                                                                       ive                                                                      ha                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUB                                                                                                           andyl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CB.clin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         trainin                                                                                        ainingtrn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ONSIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 su                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                 No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                illwf                                                                                                                                                                                       nagema
                                                                                                                                                                                                     onenp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ne                  Subto;n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and;seidutse                                                                                                                                                               pp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rdwahd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nputsiy                                                                                                                                                                                                                Appl                                                                                                                                                                           NS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cy                                                                                                                                                                               areness                                                                                               ect-jorPfon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Comrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ental                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ultants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nsultant                                                              po                                                                                      hense                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           su                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an                                                                              gnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           aw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  afts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ultancy                   ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Co                                                                                     zatioi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cas;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      itindua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n,g                                                                                                pplyus,n                                                                                                                       reauuB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OPE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                neil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   emr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      it                                                                                         gulatioer                                                                               ONENTP                                                                        **fafts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       allo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PMU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Inc              Non--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cons-
                                                                                                                                 Description     Subcom                                                                                                                                           onsC                     un                                                                                           tl.nI                                                         Subcom                       optim                                                         mproC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ectj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rameworkf                                                                                     evelopmenD                                                 anslp                                                                                               esiD                                                                                                                                                                  esigD                                                                                                                                                          esentatives,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cred                                         rep                                                    NB                                                                                  CO                                                                            PMU                                                                                                    ltanusnoC                                                                              nnualA                                                                                               Pro                                                                                                 anslatiorT                                                                                                                             reawtfoS                                                                          trai

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PMU                                                                                                         PM      GRAND                                                                                                                                                                   *Subtotal                   15.07.2003                                                                                                                                                                                  **                                                                                                                                                                                         editrc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thods:e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    onsultancc                                                                                                                                                                                            ***                N/A                                                                                                                                                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q                                                                                                                                                                       Q                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         allation,t
                        PROCUREMENT                                                                                                         emtI                                                                                                                                                       2.4.1-IC/C                                                                                                            CI-1.1.4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G                                                                                                                                                                      G                                                                                                                             RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.5.1-IC/C                                                                                                                                                              2.5.2-IC/C                                                                                                                                               2.1.2-                                                                                                                                                                 2.3.5-                                                                                                                         2-2.2.                                                                                          RT-6.3.2                                                                                                                                                           IC                                                                                                           IC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.1-                                                                                                         3.2-                                                                              SCL-3.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       em
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    QC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HS                                                                               RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.4-                                                                                                     5-IC3.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ocur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.6-                                                                             3.7-                                                                  3.6.8-                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Notes:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pr                                                                                                                                           Ins

                           Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
               UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT



Not applicable. It is impossible to estimate the financial and economic rates of return for the line
of credit as the specific sub-projects are not pre-selected. The lending guidelines for PBs would,
however, require that the repayment capacity (based on investment cash flows) of the sub-
borrower is clearly established. Technical assistance, institutional development, and project
management and monitoring activities do not lend themselves to cost benefit analysis.




                                                 77

                                    Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues

                  UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT

Background

The AFSP provides loans to rural small and medium enterprises, including entrepreneurs, and
agricultural enterprises, as defined in Ukrainian law. Lending to subnational governments on a
pilot basis may also be possible when the appropriate framework (including legislation),
satisfactory to the Bank is in place.

All sub-projects to be financed under the AFSP will be subject to an environmental review
process utilizing the procedures described in Guidelines on Environmental Assessment
Requirements, Identification of Impacts and Mitigation, contained in the OM.36 These Guidelines
are intended to provide those responsible for assessing the viability of sub-projects simple step
by step guidelines/procedures to ensure that sub-projects receive the required attention from an
environmental point of view. The PBs, with assistance, as appropriate, of the PMU in the MoF,
will be required to follow these procedures as part of the overall appraisal of sub-borrowers/sub-
projects. The procedures are consistent with both the environmental policies and regulations of
the Government of Ukraine and the World Bank (OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
and OP 4.09 Pest Management).

Sub-project Screening

All sub-projects proposed for financing from Bank funds through PBs will be screened and
classified into one of the three Categories (A, B, or C). Given the focus of this project and scope
of the sub-projects, it is expected that the vast majority of sub-projects will fall into Category C.
The Screening Procedure is described in the above-mentioned Guidelines.

Pest Management

Since declaring its independence in 1991, Ukraine has established its own system of
environmental laws. Environmental review and impact assessment of existing and proposed
activities in Ukraine are governed by its state ecological expertiza procedure. The 1991 Law on
Environmental Protection established the framework for this procedure. The legislation provides
for the execution of state ecological expertizas and EIA37 documentation for both planned and
existing activities that impact the environment.38 Although the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine,
government of Crimea, local Radas, local executive bodies, institutions of the Ministry of
Health, and other state executive bodies participate in Ukraine's state ecological expertiza
system,39 primary responsibility for the organization and execution of these expertizas currently
rests with the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP), its local agencies, and their


36 These Guidelines are based on the Environmental Review conducted in October 2002 for the Rural Finance
Project (which was subsequently revised and transformed into the AFSP).
37Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) is the same as an Environmental Assessment (EA) and reflects differences
in terminology used by the authorities and the World Bank.
38 Law of Ukraine on Environmental Protection, Articles 26-30, 51. All references to Ukrainian law are to English
translations of the law and may not reflect the exact meaning of the Ukrainian legislation.
39Law of Ukraine on Ecological Expertiza, Article 20.
                                                         78

subdivisions. In certain cases, other institutions, experts, organizations, and individuals are
permitted to participate.

The ecological expertiza is just one of many kinds of expertiza conducted to assess the
compliance of economic activities with Ukrainian laws and regulations. In addition to state
ecological expertizas, the law also authorizes public organizations, independent specialists, and
local governments to conduct public ecological expertizas on their own initiative. If drafted, the
conclusions of public expertizas serve as recommendations to the agency conducting the state
ecological expertiza and to those submitting the proposal. Further, Article 9 of the Law on
Environmental Protection confers the right on the citizens of Ukraine to take part in discussions
about, and to submit comments on, draft legislation and materials relating to siting, construction,
or modification of objects that might negatively affect the environment.

The role of environmental impact assessment is further defined by the 1995 Law on Ecological
Expertiza, which declares that state ecological expertizas are mandatory for "activities and
facilities posing an increased ecological hazard," as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of
Ukraine in a List of Activities and Objects Which Constitute an Increased Ecological Hazard.
This list was compiled and approved soon after the Law on Ecological Expertiza was enacted.
For these activities and objects, the law directs the ecological expertiza to define the degree of
environmental risk and safety of a planned or current "object" of ecological expertiza; to conduct
comprehensive scientifically-based assessments of the objects and their impacts on
environmental conditions and public health; to ensure compliance of expertiza objects with
environmental, public health and building standards and regulations; to evaluate the sufficiency
of environmental and public health measures; and to prepare unbiased, well-founded
conclusions. The conclusions are based in large part on "documentation" submitted to the
ecological expertiza by the proponent of an activity or project on its environmental and other
impacts ("EIA documentation").

The Ukrainian system of laws and regulations regarding production, transportation, use and other
types of handling pesticides and agrochemicals includes the Law of Ukraine on Pesticides and
Agrochemicals (1995) and resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on various issues
related to testing and registration, inventory, licensing of handling and phase-out, disposal or
destruction of these substances. In accordance with this legislation, application of methyl
bromide alternatives will take place only after necessary testing and registration of chemicals has
occurred and operators have necessary licenses for handling pesticides and agrochemicals, issued
by Ministry of Environmental Protection. Key principles of the state policy regarding handling of
pesticides and agrochemicals ensure: (a) priority of human and environmental health, (b) state
control over imports, (c) registration of all types of handling (production, storage, transportation,
sale and application), (c) justification of applications and minimization of use through
application of environmentally-friendly methods (non-chemical methods of plant protection).

Agricultural sub-projects under AFSP, which involve application of pesticides and agricultural
chemicals, would trigger the Bank's safeguard policy on pest management. It is expected that
sub-projects involving pesticides and other agricultural chemicals will be small scale. However,
to minimize risks to human health and environment and mitigate potential negative
consequences, the pest management plan (PMP) for such sub-projects was developed during
project preparation and is included in the above-referenced Guidelines.


                                                  79

                            Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                  UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                                           --
                                                           Planned                              Actual
PCN review                                                                                   June 6, 2002
Initial PID to PIC                                                                           June 17, 2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                                        February 7, 2003
Appraisal                                               January 2006                       January 31, 2006
Negotiations                                           March 16, 2006                        May 23, 2006
Board/RVP approval                                      June 20, 2006
Planned date of effectiveness                        September 30, 2006
Planned date of mid-term review                         June 30, 2008
Planned closing date                                    June 30, 2010

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project: Ministry of Finance will represent the Borrower and be
the Implementing Agency

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
 Name                                                     Title                                        Unit
 Prior to July 2005:
 Rodrigo A. Chaves                       Lead Economist, TTL                                         ECSPE
 Lawrence Hannah                         Lead Economist                                              ECSPE
 Angela Prigozhina                       Senior Operations Officer                                    ECSPF
 Aleksander Kaliberda                    Senior Projects Officer                                     ECSSD
 Signe Zeikate                           Consultant                                                  ECSPE
 Olha Nychay                             Consultant                                                  ECSPE
 Vitaly Kazakov                          Financial Management Specialist                              ECSPS
 Richard Gargrave                        Senior Procurement Officer                                   ECSPS
 Ahmed A. R. Eiweida                     Senior Urban Management Specialist                          MNSIF
 Radhika Srinivasan                      Senior Social Scientist                                     ECSSD
 Steven Weisbrod                         Consultant                                                  ECSPE
 Katerina Petrina                        Operations Officer                                          ECSPE
 Irina Shmeliova                         Procurement Assistant                                        ECSPS

 Since July 2005 (following the merger of the Rural Finance and Municipal Finance Projects)
 Hormoz Aghdaey                          Lead Financial Sector Specialist, TTL                        ECSPF
 Angela Prigozhina                       Senior Operations Officer                                    ECSPF
 Rochelle Hilton                         Consultant                                                   ECSPF
 Martin Slough                           Senior Financial Specialist                                  ECSPF
 James Lacey                             Banking Consultant                                           ECSPF
 Anna Wielogorksa                        Procurement Specialist                                       ECSPS
 Irina Babich                            Financial Management Specialist                              ECSPF
 Galina Kuznetsova                       Financial Management Specialist                              ECSPS
 Irina Shmeliova                         Procurement Assistant                                        ECSPS
 Daria Goldstein                         Lawyer                                                      LEGEC
 Alexei Slenzak                          Environmental Specialist                                    ECSSD
 Andrina Ambrose                         Senior Finance Specialist                                   LOAG1

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1.   Bank resources:                              Prior to FY06: $402,500              FY06: $244,000
     2.   Trust funds:                                 Prior to FY06: $464,700
     3.   Total:                                       Prior to FY06: $867,200            to date: $1,110,400
Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1.   Remaining costs to approval:                  $10,000
     2.   Estimated annual supervision cost:           $120,000


                                                          80

                           Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
              UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT


PROJECT DOCUMENTS
· Environmental review
· Financial management questionnaire
· PPF agreement P04020, July 2003
· Amendments to the PPF agreement

REPORTS AND MEMORANDA ON AFSP SUPPORTED REFORMS
· Reforming its Framework for Secured Transactions to Expand Access to Credit (by Heywood W.
  Fleisig), December 2001;
· Development of Mortgage Finance in Ukraine (Loic Chiquier), November 2002;
· Mortgage Finance and Social Housing in Ukraine (Professor Bengt Turner, Institute for Housing and
  Urban Research, Uppsala University Sweden), August 17, 2003;
· Legal and Regulatory Framework for Insurance in Ukraine (Alberto Monti), October 2003;
· Core Elements of a Modern Regime of Secured Transactions (Roderick Macdonald); April 11, 2004;
· Implementing the Secured Transactions Law in Ukraine - Issues and Challenges (Roderick
  Macdonald); April 13, 2004;
· The Feasibility of a 2nd Tier Mortgage Refinance Institution in Ukraine (Douglas Diamond)
  September 10, 2004;
· Foreign Experience with Liquidity Facilities and Other Capital Market Funding Processes (by
  Douglas Diamond) December 23, 2004;
· Mortgage Market Development in Ukraine (Angela Prigozhina, Loic Chiquier), March 2006
· Provision of State Guarantee to the State Mortgage Institution (Loic Chiquier), April 2006

MANUALS:
· Operations Manual (prepared by Project Management Unit)
· Environmental Manual (February 2006)

LAWS:
· Secured Transactions (Securing the Rights of Creditors and Registering Charges), 2003
· Financial Leasing, 2005
· Warehouse Receipts, 2004
· Mortgage, 2003
· Mortgage Bonds, 2005
· Draft Law on lending and guaranteeing sub-national debt, 2001, revised 2005
· Draft Law on insurance (revised), May 2006




                                                 81

                                     Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                      UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT


                                             Ukraine: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                                      (In US Dollars Millions)

                                                                                                              Difference Between
                                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions             Expected and Actual
                                                                                                                Disbursements
Project ID Project Name                               FY         IBRD        IDA   GRANT       Cancel. Undisb.   Orig. Frm Rev'd
             AZOV-BLK SEA CORR BIODIV CONSV
P048790      (GEF)                                   2002                    0.00      8.48              7.31     5.53       4.39
P076338      DEVSTAT                                 2004        32.00       0.00                       32.00    32.00
P074885      E-DEVT TA                               2003          5.00      0.00                        4.93     4.13
P083702      HYDROPOWER REHAB                        2005       106.00       0.00                      106.00
P044832      KIEV DISTRICT HEAT                      1998       200.00       0.00               40.00   72.54   112.54      50.73
P035786      LVIV WATER/WW                           2001        24.25       0.00                       16.26    16.25       7.85
P054966      PRIV SEC DEV (APL #1)                   2002        30.00       0.00               27.80    0.20    26.00
P077738      QUAL EDUC EQUAL ACCESS (APL #1)         2005        86.59       0.00                       86.59     2.00
P035777      RURAL LAND TITLING & CADASTRE           2003       195.13       0.00                      190.44     8.31
P069858      SIF                                     2002        50.21       0.00                       37.89    37.89      10.79
P075231      SOC ASST SYS MOD                        2006        99.40       0.00                       99.40
P057815      ST TAX SERV MOD PROG (APL #1)           2003        40.00       0.00                       38.43     9.93
P069857      TB/AIDS CNTRL                           2003        60.00       0.00                       58.88    32.88      11.00
Total:                                                          928.58       0.00      8.48     67.80  750.88   287.46      84.76




                                                   Ukraine: Statement of IFC's
                                                   Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                          As of 10/31/2005
                                                      (In US Dollars Millions)

       FY                                                             Held                               Disbursed
  Approval     Company                                 Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic      Loan  Equity    Quasi      Partic
      2004     First Lease                             1.43        0.00      0.00      0.00      1.43    0.00     0.00       0.00
      2005     AES RivneEnergo                        15.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00
      2005     AESKyivoblenergo                       30.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      9.00    0.00     0.00       0.00
      2005     AvalBank                               15.00        0.00     70.00      0.00     15.00    0.00    70.00       0.00
      2006     CJSC Sofia Kiev                        14.50        0.00      2.00     13.00      6.00    0.00     0.00       5.40
      2005     EVU II                                  0.00        6.32      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.11     0.00       0.00
      2006     Galnaftogas                            21.00        0.00      4.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00
      2003     HVB Bank Ukraine                        9.29        0.00      0.00      0.00      9.29    0.00     0.00       0.00
      2004     Mironovsky                             20.00        0.00     10.00      0.00     20.00    0.00    10.00       0.00
      2005     Mironovsky                             60.00      20.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   20.00     0.00       0.00
      2004     Nova Liniya                             0.00        0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     5.00       0.00
      2000     ProCredit UKR                           2.00        1.70      0.00      0.00      2.00    1.70     0.00       0.00
      2004     ProCredit UKR                           7.44        1.02      0.00      0.00      7.44    1.02     0.00       0.00
      2004     RZB Ukraine                            30.00        0.00      0.00      0.00     30.00    0.00     0.00       0.00
      2004     Sandora                                20.00        0.00      0.00      0.00     20.00    0.00     0.00       0.00

otal Portfolio:                                      245.66      29.04      91.00     13.00    120.16   22.83    85.00       5.40



        FY                                             Approvals Pending Commitment
  Approval     Company                                 Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
      2005     AES RivneEnergo                         2.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
      2005     AESKyivOblenegro                        3.00        0.00      0.00      0.00

                     Total Pending Commitment:         5.00        0.00      0.00      0.00




                                                                82

                                                  Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                        UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                         Ukraine at a glance                                                                               5/25/06


                                                                      Europe &        Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      Central       middle-
                                                            Ukraine        Asia       income      Development diamond*

2005
Population, mid-year (millions)                                  47.7        472        2,430
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             1,500      3,290         1,580                    Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                 71.7     1,553         3,847

Average annual growth, 1999-05

Population (%)                                                   -0.8       -0.1          1.0
Labor force (%)                                                  -0.4       -0.5          0.7     GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                  per                                     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                                             capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)             20            ..          ..
Urban population (% of total population)                          67          64          49
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  68          68          70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                          16          29          33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                          3           ..        11            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)              98          91          81
Literacy (% of population age 15+)                               100          97          90
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)             90         101         114                  Ukraine

   Male                                                           91         103          115                 Lower-middle-income group
   Female                                                         90         101          113

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                     1985       1995      2004          2005
                                                                                                   Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                       ..      48.2       64.8         82.9
Gross capital formation/GDP                              ..      26.7       19.1         22.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                        ..      47.1       61.3         53.5                         Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                               ..      23.6       26.7         23.0
Gross national savings/GDP                               ..      23.3       29.2         26.4

Current account balance/GDP                              ..      -2.4       10.5          3.1     Domestic                           Capital
Interest payments/GDP                                    ..       1.0        0.8          2.0     savings                            formation
Total debt/GDP                                           ..      17.5       27.6         32.2
Total debt service/exports                               ..       6.4        4.9         11.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                ..         ..          ..          ..
Present value of debt/exports                            ..         ..          ..          ..
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                        1985-95   1995-05       2004      2005       2005-09
(average annual growth)
GDP                                        -9.3       3.8        12.1        2.6          4.3                  Ukraine
GDP per capita                             -9.4       4.6        12.9        3.4          5.1                  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                 ..         ..      13.8     -11.2           3.5

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1985       1995      2004          2005      Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
                                                                                                  25
Agriculture                                              ..      15.4       12.1          9.5     20
Industry                                                 ..      42.7       36.5         29.6     15
  Manufacturing                                          ..      34.6       23.3         17.9     10
Services                                                 ..      41.9       51.3         60.9     5
                                                                                                  0
Household final consumption expenditure                  ..      55.1       55.2         57.6     -5        00    01     02     03    04      05
General gov't final consumption expenditure              ..      21.3       18.1         19.4
                                                                                                                     GCF              GDP
Imports of goods and services                            ..      50.2       53.7         52.6

                                                  1985-95   1995-05       2004          2005      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           -6.6        1.1       19.4          0.4     30

Industry                                             -21.6        4.9       11.4          0.7     20

  Manufacturing                                          ..      13.5       21.3          2.1     10
Services                                                 ..        ..       11.1          3.9      0

Household final consumption expenditure                  ..       5.0       14.5         16.2    -10        00     01    02     03    04      05

General gov't final consumption expenditure              ..       1.4        5.4          2.7    -20
Gross capital formation                                  ..         ..      -1.5         -0.3                     Exports            Imports
Imports of goods and services                            ..         ..       8.6          2.1


Note: 2005 data are preliminary estimates.

* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
   be incomplete.



                                                                        83

                                                                                                                       Ukraine

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1985   1995    2004     2005     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    30
                                                                              25
Consumer prices                                ..   376.8     9.0    13.6     20
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..   415.8    15.1    20.1     15
                                                                              10
Government finance                                                            5
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..   37.8    34.6    40.6               00     01      02       03      04      05
Current budget balance                         ..    -2.3     1.7      0.9                    GDP deflator            CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -4.9    -4.2     -2.7


TRADE
                                             1985   1995    2004     2005     Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  14,244  33,432  35,024     40,000
  Ferrous and non-precious metals              ..   4,222  13,051  14,047     35,000
 Mineral products                              ..   2,718  3,492    4,390     30,000

 Manufactures                                   ..  2,693   5,425    1,240    25,000

Total imports (cif)                            ..  16,946  29,691  36,159     20,000

 Food                                           ..  1,220   1,908    2,684    15,000
                                                                              10,000
  Fuel and energy                              ..   7,841  10,161  10,483     5,000
  Capital goods                                ..   3,189  5,301   10,052         0
                                                                                      99     00    01     02     03    04     05
Export price index (2000=100)                  ..    103     149      181
Import price index (2000=100)                  ..     87     138      173                     Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                      ..    119     108      105


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                             1985   1995    2004     2005     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                  ..  17,090  39,719  44,378     12

Imports of goods and services                  ..  18,280  34,846  43,707     10
Resource balance                               ..  -1,190  4,873      671
                                                                              8
Net income                                     ..   -434    -645     -985
                                                                              6
Net current transfers                          ..    472   2,576    2,845
                                                                              4
Current account balance                        ..  -1,152   6,804   2,531
                                                                              2
Financing items (net)                          ..   1,640  -4,578   -4,645
                                                                              0
Changes in net reserves                        ..   -488   -2,226   -2,226          99    00    01     02       03    04     05

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..   1,069   9,525  19,390
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               ..     1.1     5.3      5.1


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1985   1995    2004     2005     Composition of 2005 debt (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..   8,429  17,887  26,725
  IBRD                                         ..    491   2,168    2,381
  IDA                                          ..       0       0       0                                  A: 2,381
                                                                                       G: 5,267                   C: 1,290
Total debt service                             ..   1,137  1,970    5,189
  IBRD                                         ..      8     222      291                                            D: 360

  IDA                                          ..       0       0       0                                              E: 2,435


Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                               ..      6       ..       ..
  Official creditors                           ..    385    -385     -138
  Private creditors                             ..  -219    1,956      216
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)      ..    257   1,711    7,533
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)               ..       4     -76   2,757
                                                                                               F: 14,992
World Bank program
  Commitments                                  ..     146       ..     542    A - IBRD                            E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                ..     401      33      252    B - IDA     D - Other multilateral  F - Private
  Principal repayments                         ..       0    166      196     C - IMF                             G - Short-term
  Net flows                                    ..    401    -133       56
  Interest payments                            ..       8     56        6
  Net transfers                                 ..    393   -189       534


Development Economics                                                                                                     5/25/06




                                                          84

                Annex 15: Map

UKRAINE: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT




                      85


             This map was produced by                                           25°E                                                                30°E                                                 35°E
             the Map Design Unit of The
             World Bank. The boundaries,
             colors, denominations and                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                          To                                             RUSSIAN
             any other information shown                                                                                                                Minsk
             on this map do not imply, on
             the part of The World Bank                                                                          BELARUS                                                                               FEDERATION
             Group, any judgment on the
             legal status    of any territory,                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                          To
             or any endorsement or                To
                                                  To                                                                                    Zhlobin
             a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h   Warsaw                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
             boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                               Bryansk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UKRAINE


                                           To
                                           To                North                                                                                                 Chernihiv  Desna
                                                                                                                                                                              Des
                                       Warsaw                               Kovel                  Sarny                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                  P O L A N D                                                                                                                                                                                                Orel
                                                                  Buh  V O L Y N                                                                               CHERNIHIV
                                                                                             RIVNE                                  Korosten                                            SUMY
                                                                           Luts'k                                                                     Kyiv                                           Sumy
                                                                                               Rivne                                             Reservoir
                                                                                                                        ZHYTOMYR
                                                                                                                                                             KYIV                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
              50°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Voronezh
                             To
                             To                                                                                                                              (KIEV)                                                                                                              50°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                           Tarnow
                           ar                                                                                            Zhytomyr                                                                                                                                       Voronezh
                                                      L'viv

                                                     L V I V                       Ternopil'                                        D nieper           KYIV                         POLTAVA                                   Kharkiv
                                                                                                                                                                    Dnieper
                                                                                                                                                                          Dnieper
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Poltava           KHARKIV
             SLOVAK                                                        TERNOPIL                                                                                                                                                                 LUHANSK
                                                                                                                                                                 Cherkasy            Kremenchug
            REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                   Reservoir                                                      Sieverodonetsk
                                                                                                                                                         CHERKASY                                                                                        Do
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kremenchuk                                                    nets
                                    Uzhhorod C a r p a t h i a nIV                                               Khmel'nyts'kyi                     U p l a n d                     Lowland
                                                                        Ivano-                                                    Vinnytsya
                                                                        Frankivs'k

                                                                     ANO-       Dniester                                                                                                                                           D o n e t s
                                                                                                   KHMELNYTSKYI         VINNYTSYA                                                                                                                                      Luhans'k
                                                                                                                                                         Uman'                                                                                  B a s i n
                                    ZAKARPAT                  FRANKIVSK

                                                  Hora Hoverla                                                                                                                                                                        DONETSK
                                                     (2061 m)
            HUNGARY                                                   M t ns.                                                        South
                                                                                       Chernivtsi                                         B uh                                Kirovohrad                          Dnipropetrovs'k

                                                                                                                                                              KIROVOHRAD                          DNIPROPETROVSK
                                                                            CHERNIVTSI                                                                                                                                                            Donets'k
                                                                                                                        MO                                                             Kryvyi Rih
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zaporizhzhia

                                          To
                                          To
                                     Satu Mare                                          To
                                                                                        To                                                                         MYKOLAÏV
                                                                                                                                                                   MYKOLAÏV
                                                                                    Tirgu Mures
                                                         ROMANIA                                                           LDO                                                                    Nykopol


                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kakhov

                                                                                                                                               ODESSA                                                                                          Mariupol
                                                                      25°E                                                     VA                                                                           Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                 Mykolayiv              Inhulets              ZAPORIZHZHIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Melitopol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Berdiansk

                                 UKRAINE                                                                             To
                                                                                                                     To                                                           Kherson
                                                                                                                  Birlad                                      Odessa                 KHERSON                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                         RUSSIAN
                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                Azov                    FEDERATION
                                         OBLAST CAPITALS                                                          To
                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                  Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kerch
                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                         Izmail      Vilkova
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                To                                                                            C R I M E A N                                                                      45°N
                                         RIVERS                                                   Buzau                                                                          Yevpatoriia                  Teodosiia                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                          45°N                                                                                                                         Teodosiia                          Armavir
                                         MAIN ROADS                                                                                              Mouths of                               Simferopol'
                                                                                                                                                 the Danube                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sochi
OCTOBER                                  RAILROADS
                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                            To                                                      Sevastopol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0      50    100    150 Kilometers                              IBRD
                                         OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                Medgidia                                                                        Yalta
                                                                                                                                                          Black              Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33505
       2004                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                     0          50         100          150 Miles
                                                                                          BULGARIA                                                30°E                                                            35°E

