ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorld Free of Poverty '
InfoShop
Ti 'AnMIA KA
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/07/2003                           25446
Section I - Basic Information                              February      7, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: UKRAINE                                 Project ID P076553
Project: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT                   Task Team Leader: Rodrigo A. Chaves
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 3, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m): 100.00
Bank Approval. June 24, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSSD                             Sector: Banking (34%); Micro- and SME finanice
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  (33%); General finance sector (33%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Rural non-farm income
generation (P); Rural policies and institutions (P)
I.A.2 Project Objectives:
The development objective of the project is to increase access - by farmers and rural entrepreneurs and
enterprises - to financial services. The project aims to achieve this objective through: (a) increasing the
supply of long-term capital in the rural economy, (b) increasing the interest and enhancing the ability of
regulated financial intermediaries to provide financial services to rural clients; and (c) developing and
instituting legislation that contributes to creating a policy environment conducive to rural finance.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will have three components.
Component 1: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility. This component aims to address the lack of long
term capital in rural areas. The component will be a credit line that finances (a) sub-loans on-lent
through selected private intermediary banks to eligible private sector rural borrowers (individuals and
enterprises) to finance rural productive activities (farm and non-farm), (b) micro-loans disbursed through
participating non-governmental and/or private service providers to rural entrepreneurs, and (c) leasing of
depreciable capital assets (e.g., machinery, tools, vehicles, equipment) by private intermediary banks and
private leasing companies to final beneficiaries.
Eligible sub-borrowers and lessees will be limited to private sector legal entities and physical persons.
Eligible sub-projects and sub-leases will include all productive investments in all sub-sectors of the rural
economy (agriculture, services, and industry). Eligible intermediaries will be private banks, private
leasing companies, and non-govemmental and/or private entities meeting minimum financial
performance standards and in compliance with all relevant financial market regulations.
Component 2: Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance. This component aims to increase the



2
ISDS
interest and ability of the financial sector to provide credit to rural borrowers. The component would
finance banks and other intermediaries, such as credit unions, leasing companies, and bonded warehouses
to (a) develop suitable technologies (such as computerized management information systems, risk
management techniques, asset-liability management, credit approval processes, credit contract
enforcement, asset disposition, and internal control structures) to provide financial services to enterprises
and entrepreneurs in rural localities, (b) establish and operate a network of rural banking and micro-credit
offices, and (c) train their staff in rural banking and micro-lending.
This component could also finance farmers, agro-industries, and rural SMEs and entrepreneurs to prepare
credit applications and business plans that would be acceptable to creditors, in order to assist in bringing
rural borrowers closer to meeting financial sector standards.
Component 3: Rural Finance Policy Development. This component aims to upgrade the legal,
regulatory, and institutional framework for rural finance, including developing (a) regulations and a
state-of-the-art electronic registry for secured transactions that would follow adoption of the secured
transactions law currently under development and (b) a mortgage financing legal framework that would
accommodate agricultural mortgages. The component could also include development of: (a) a credit
bureau; (b) a warehousing receipts system; (c) accounting and fiscal treatment of depreciable assets and
leasing; and (c) rural risk management instruments (e.g., weather index insurance).
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is expected to be implemented in rural areas nationwide.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: The project is classified as Environmental Category F, because Component I involves the
on-lending of project funds - through financial intermediaries - that, in some cases, may be used for
investments with minor environmental impacts
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes 0 No    C TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             Q Yes * No    C, TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No    C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    C Yes * No    C TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                C Yes * No    C TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 C Yes * No    -TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No     0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          G Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  C} Yes * No   C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejzudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Pleasefill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.



3
ISDS
II.D la Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project is not expected to have any significant safeguard impacts.
II D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None expected.
11 D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None expected.
II.D.2. In light of l, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
n/a
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Arrangements for addressing environmental issues, including institutional framework and capacity
issues, will be evaluated during the Environmental Assessment. Guidelines will be provided to the loan
officers of the project's PFIs to assist them in ensuring that sub-projects comply with national and Bank
environmental requirements. Further, environmental impact training will be provided to these loan
officers.
11 D 4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During project preparation, consultations with key stakeholders, including representatives of banks,
leasing companies, and microcredit service providers, government authorities, and potential final
beneficiaries of the project's Rural credit and Leasing Facility, will be held. These consultations will
enable the task team to validate or improve the logic of the project design relative to the Ukrainian
reality, and to reach agreement on the assumptions and key performance indicators of the project. These
consultations will also serve as a vehicle to enhance client ownership of the project. The environment
section of the project's Operational Manual will be reviewed and cleared by ECSSD and will be disclosed
in-country and forwarded to the Infoshop prior to the project appraisal mission
E. Safeguardls Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3 - No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 2/14/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/14/2003



