Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/24/2006 
Report No.:  35968
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Ukraine 
Project ID:  P076553 
Project Name:  Access to Financial Services Project 
Task Team Leader:  Hormoz Aghdaey 
Estimated Appraisal Date: January 31, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 25, 2006 
Managing Unit:  ECSPF 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Banking (34%);Micro- and SME finance (33%);General finance sector (33%) 
Theme:  Rural markets (P);Small and medium enterprise support (P);Infrastructure 
services for private sector development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
150.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 SUB-BORROWER(S) 
35.00
35.00 
Environmental Category: F - Financial Intermediary Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Project development objective:  
 
(i) 
Expanding access to financial resources and services for rural small and medium 
enterprises; and  
 
(ii) 
Enhancing legal, regulatory and institutional framework for credit market in 
Ukraine to increase accessibility and availability of financial resources for underserved 
groups of enterprises and population   
 
3. Project Description 
AFSP will finance the first phase of the APL aimed at increasing access to finance for 
rural SMEs and private entrepreneurs. The Project will provide a credit line, to be on-lent 
by the Ministry of Finance through eligible commercial banks that meet Project’s 
financial intermediaries’ eligibility criteria, to eligibleRSMEs and agricultural 
enterprises.  In addition, the Project will finance institutional building for eligible 
financial intermediaries (banks) and technical assistance for selected government 
agencies involved in developing appropriate credit market legislation and regulatory 
framework, infrastructure and new financial services.    Subloans to final beneficiaries 
Page  2
will be made on commercial terms, in accordance with the policies and procedures of the 
PIBs.  PIBs will bear the commercial risk and would be responsible for subproject 
appraisal and all lending decisions.  Subloans to RSMEs could be made in US$ (for 
exporters) or UAH.  Microlending would be in UAH.  The maximum size for investment 
subloans would be US$1.5 million equivalent, with a maximum maturity of 10 years.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is expected to be implemented in rural areas nationwide.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Alexei Slenzak (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project will provide funds for small and medium enterprise investments without any 
significant safeguard impacts. The proposed project will not finance any pre-identified 
sub-projects and no specific social safeguard  
 
issues have been identified.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None expected.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
Page  3
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
An Environmental Manual, updated during appraisal, has been published and 
disseminated.  The Manual includes guidelines on investments in pest management.  
These meet World Bank policies and guidelines.  
 
Guidelines will be provided to loan officers of the project's PIBs to assist them in 
ensuring them that sub-projects comply with national and Bank environmental 
requirements.  The loan officers of the PIBs will receive necessary consultations and 
training on any environmental impact anticipated under the sub-projects.  All necessary 
clearances and procedures will be followed in accordance with Ukrainian environmental 
legislation.  Supervision will be performed jointly with the Bank's environmental 
specialist.  Prior to the launch of the loan (specifically the credit line), a specialized half-
day seminar will be organized for the PIBs and any potential sub-borrowers who have an 
interest in the project to learn more about the Bank's requirements and national 
environmental legislation.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The stakeholders of the project mainly include the PIBs and rural SMEs. The SMEs, the 
individual enterprise sub-borrowers, cannot be identified at this stage nor can the sub-
projects to be financed. As part of project preparation, discussions on conditions for on-
lending have been initiated with a set of potential participating banks.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2002 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/28/2002 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/30/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Pest Management Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2002 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/28/2002 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/30/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
n/a   
Page  4
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Hormoz Aghdaey 
01/05/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Alexei Slenzak 
12/30/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
 
Comments:  I am satisfied that the Environment Chapter of the OM has been updated for  greater 
relevance to investments, and pest management practices and is satisfactory 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gerardo M. Corrochano 
01/24/2006 
Comments:  Cleared by Gerardo Corrochano 
