                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001407



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48270)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                        TO

                                    UKRAINE

                                     FOR THE

                  ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT



                                   JUNE 22, 2010




Private and Financial Sector Development Department
ECCU2 Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       Currency Unit = Ukrainian Hryvnia (UAH)
                         Exchange Rate at ICR, April 12, 2010
                                 US$1= UAH 7.9197
                      Exchange Rate at Appraisal, February 8, 2006
                                  US$1= UAH 5.05
                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31
                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
AFSP         Access to Financial Services Project
BSMC         Bank Selection and Monitoring Commission
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
DPL          Development Policy Loan
ECSSD        ECA Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
ECSPF        ECA Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
EDP          Export Development Project
FDI          Foreign Direct Investment
FIL          Financial Intermediary Loans
FM           Financial Management
FMR          Financial Management Report
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR          Implementation Status Report
IT/MIS       Information Technology/Management Information Systems
MoF          Ministry of Finance
NBFI         Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NBU          National Bank of Ukraine
NPL          Non Performing Loan
OM           Operations Manual
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objective
PB           Participating Bank
PMU          Project Management Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
QER          Quality Enhancement Review
RSME         Rural and Small and Medium-Size Enterprises
SCRFSM       State Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets
SCSSM        State Commission for Securities and Stock Market
SLA          Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME          Small and Medium-Size Enterprises
SMI          State Mortgage Institution
SNG          Sub-national Government
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
UAH          Ukrainian Hryvnia (currency)

                               At ICR Time                 At Project Approval
               Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou      Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director: Martin Raiser               Paul G. Bermingham
              Sector Manager: Lalit Raina                  Gerardo Corrochano
         Project Team Leader: Alexander Pankov             Hormoz Aghdaey
            ICR Team Leader: Marius Vismantas
         ICR Primary Author: Vinod K. Goel
                                                 UKRAINE
                                     Access to Financial Services Project


                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. i
  C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................
  E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................
  F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................
  H. Restructuring (if any) ...............................................................................................
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 18
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 19
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 21
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 22
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 23
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 33
  Annex 9. Financial Performance of Participating Banks .............................................. 34
  Annex 10. Distribution of Loans by Region, Sector, and Loan & RSME Size ............ 36
  Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 37
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 38
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Access to Financial
Country: Ukraine                                Project Name:
                                                                       Services Project
Project ID:             P076553                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-48270
ICR Date:               08/16/2010              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:              UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 150.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 17.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 17.4M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/06/2002     Effectiveness:          07/12/2007        07/12/2007
Appraisal:            01/31/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/22/2006     Mid-term Review:        04/30/2009
                                     Closing:                06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government: Moderately           Satisfactory
                                           Implementing         Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:     Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower     Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:         Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                95                  95
Central government administration                                       1                   1
 Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                                                                       11
savings
Sub-national government administration                                 3                    3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regulation and competition policy                                      20                  20
Rural markets                                                          40                  40
Small and medium enterprise support                                    40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Martin Raiser                         Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:            Lalit Raina                           Gerardo M. Corrochano
Project Team Leader:       Marius Vismantas                      Hormoz Aghdaey
ICR Team Leader:           Marius Vismantas
ICR Primary Author:        Vinod K. Goel


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the APL program is to help      increase the contribution of financial
markets to econom ic growth through the prov ision of lim ited long te rm finance for rural
small and medium enterprises (RSMEs); and institu tional development finance that can



                                                ii
play a catalyst ro    le in develop ment of skills, s ervices and re spective marke t
infrastructure. This project (APL1) aim s to increase access to f inancial services in r ural
areas, specifically for RSMEs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval        Target       Completion or
                                               documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage increase in the number of RSME clients of PBs
Value
quantitative or 4,500                       10,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in total volume of longer-term finance extended by PBs to RSMEs
Value
(quantitative     US$450 million            US$825 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Legislation for new financial services introduced
Value
                                            8 (one per year
(quantitative     4
                                            2007 on)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                  Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                    IP          Disbursements
       Archived
                                                              (USD millions)
  1    04/28/2007       Satisfactory          Satisfactory               0.00
  2    06/27/2007      Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory              0.00
                                              Moderately
  3    01/14/2008      Unsatisfactory                                   1.23
                                             Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately            Moderately
  4    01/30/2009                                                      17.34
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                        iv
                 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background. Ukraine enjoyed a high GDP growth of 50 percent from 1999
through 2004. At 12.1 percent in 2004, GDP growth was the highest in Europe. About 5.6 million
people were employed in the agricultural sector, representing almost 20 percent of the labor force.
Agricultural production was contributing to nearly 12 percent of GDP. Almost 60 percent of
agricultural production was attributed to households, and the remaining 40 percent was being
produced by the agricultural enterprises. The small and medium enterprises (SMEs with 11-250
employees) were contributing significantly to employment and GDP, and provided the only
employment and income source to many poor households. The share of the SME sector in GDP
was only 8 percent at the time of appraisal, but it employed 21 percent of the labor force.
Attention to their development was therefore essential for economic growth and poverty
reduction. At the lower end of the SME sector was a mixture of the self-employed and "micro"
enterprises, with less than 10 employees. A significant proportion of these enterprises were found
in the informal sector.

The 2002 reform of state collective farms resulted in the reorganization and/or liquidation of
almost 15,000 large public agricultural production enterprises and led to the creation of about
45,000 new farmer enterprises as well as the growth of rural SMEs. Many of these new
enterprises required significant funding to purchase production equipment and replace obsolete
machinery. Overall limited access to credit of the newly established enterprises had significantly
hampered the performance and growth of the rural SMEs. As agriculture and the rural economy
made up a significant proportion of GDP, addressing the impediments to the growth of the sector
was high on the Government's reform agenda.

The rural economy was largely underdeveloped and suffered from limited access to finance,
obsolete technologies, underdeveloped infrastructure as well as declining or aging population.
Despite serious efforts of the Government in creating modern legislation and enabling business
environment, significant constraints to the development of the private sector remained. The
growth had been concentrated in large financial-industrial groups that were able to take advantage
of growth opportunities in the domestic and export markets due to their integration with the
banking sector. In contrast, the rural, and small and medium enterprises (RSMEs) had limited
access to credit, restricting the extent to which they could contribute to GDP growth and benefit
from increasing business opportunities domestically or in foreign markets.

Similarly, sub-national governments (SNGs), including utilities, had limited access to long-term
finance to meet their capital investment needs. Only the largest cities had at that time been able to
attract longer term finance from issuing municipal bonds while other local governments were
constrained by the deficient legal framework and limited skills in the area of financial planning
and project management. This situation hindered the ability of the central government to
decentralize important parts of local public service delivery. Furthermore, the lack of access to
financial services limited the provision and coverage of local services that SNGs provide, since
they were unable to finance the capital costs required to upgrade or expand infrastructure
networks.

The financial sector of Ukraine had developed significantly over the several years prior to the
appraisal time, with total assets reaching nearly 55 percent of GDP by the end of 2005. However,
the quality, variety and accessibility of the financial services, especially in rural areas, were still

                                                  1
inadequate. The financial sector was dominated by banks (which accounted for over 85 percent of
the sector's total assets). Non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) were seriously underdeveloped.
The insurance industry, the largest segment of the NBFI market, has been growing rapidly. Gross
premium income was about 4 percent of GDP in 2005. Pension funds, credit unions, leasing and
factoring companies were negligible, with their assets accounting for less than 1 percent of GDP.
The securities market was shallow, illiquid and non-transparent.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Bank was well positioned to add value in supporting the
Ukraine authorities in the development and implementation of the program, including providing
technical assistance and advice on a broad range of policy issues relating to the financial sector in
general, as well as access to finance for RSMEs and SNGs. Throughout the period of 1996-2005,
the Bank had played an important role in supporting the Government's priorities in these areas. In
addition to lending operations and economic and sector work, the Bank had an active policy
dialogue supporting, inter alia, Ukraine's efforts to strengthen banking supervision, bank
restructuring and financial market development. As part of project preparation, the Bank had
helped the Government develop its vision to increase access to credit markets by RSMEs and
SNGs, identify benchmarks and milestones to reach the intended objectives, and obtain the
required technical assistance either directly or through grants from donors.

The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2004-2007, and the
CAS Progress Report (June 13, 2005). The CAS supported the aspirations of Ukraine to join the
European Union by continuing to facilitate institutional developments that were expected to lead
to a business-friendly environment and a more inclusive and responsive government. The CAS
was built around seven broad objectives, including three relating to the proposed project: (a)
sustainable economic growth, with particular emphasis on the environment for private sector
development; (b) poverty reduction and strengthening of the middle class; and (c) reducing
regional imbalances. The Access to Financial Services Project (AFSP) was expected contribute
to each of these objectives by jump-starting RSMEs and SNGs access to credit markets. This in
turn was hoped to lead, in the medium term, to employment generation and hence poverty
reduction.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The AFSP was the first phase of a planned vertical Adaptable Program Loan (APL) series. The
objective of the APL program (potentially totaling US$300 million) was to help increase the
contribution of financial markets to economic growth through the provision of limited longer
term finance for RSMEs and institutional development finance that can play a catalyst role in
development of skills, services and respective market infrastructure of rural finance market.
Depending upon the outcome of the APL1, the APL2 would have built upon the institutional
development of AFSP (APL1). Consequently, it was expected that APL2 would maintain a credit
line component, with the participation of a broader scope of financial intermediaries (such as
credit unions and leasing companies) and more extensive lending to SNGs. It would have
focused mainly on second generation financial sector issues, including risk-based financial sector
supervision (e.g., Basle II) and credit scoring systems to further facilitate RSMEs access to credit,
development of sophisticated risk management instruments for the productive sector.

The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the AFSP was to increase access to financial
services in rural areas, specifically for RSMEs.

The Project designed the following key indicators:

                                                 2
        increase in the number of RSME clients of the participating banks (PBs),
        increase in the volume of longer term finance extended by the PBs to RSMEs, and
        legislation enacted related to new financial services and improved infrastructure, and
        legislation to support financial services.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO did not change during the project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the AFSP were RSMEs, PBs, SNGs, and the overall financial sector.
The RSMEs was to benefit from the provision of medium- and long-term working capital and
investment finance to make productive investments and thereby facilitate improvement in their
performance and growth. The SNGs were to benefit by having access to long term credit to
finance their investments in infrastructure and services, and thereby were expected to facilitate
improvement in their finances and service delivery (lending to SNGs was contingent on having
proper legislative framework in place).

The participating banks were to benefit from access to long-term funding to help them expand
their business in term lending, especially in rural areas. The PBs were also expected to get access
to technical assistance (TA) funding to improve their institutional capabilities. The financial
sector was to benefit from the TA (consulting services and information technology/management
information systems- IT/MIS) in support of institutional development as well as training of the
Ministry of Finance (MoF) and selected beneficiary institutions to address the legislative and
institutional constraints. The ultimate objective was to strengthen and improve the ability of the
financial sector to provide medium- and long-term financial resources to the enterprise sector.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project, a US$150 million Variable Spread Loan with a maturity of 20 years including 5
years grace on annuity basis of repayment, consisted of three components:

Component A: Access to Finance (US$140 million) with two sub-components:

(A1) Line of Credit (US$125 million) to be on-lent by the Ministry of Finance through eligible
commercial banks (PBs) to provide long-term sub-loans (for investments, working capital or
financial leases) through to eligible RSMEs, agricultural enterprises and SNGs. (Three PBs -
Privat Bank, Nadra Bank and Kreditprombank - were pre-selected based on agreed criteria.)
Eligible RSMEs and agricultural enterprises were expected to be private sector legal entities, as
well as micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs. The maximum size of sub-loans for RSMEs and
agricultural enterprises was limited to US$1.5 million for investment and US$300,000 for
working capital; for micro sub-loans the limit was UAH 250,000 (about $50,000 at the exchange
rate of the time). Lending to SNGs, on a pilot basis, was to be considered, if satisfactory
legislation on the SNG borrowing and guarantees was put in place during project implementation.

(A2) Institutional Development for Participating Banks (US$15 million) to finance PBs'
institutional development and IT upgrading needs. PBs were to have the option of shifting all or


                                                3
part of this allocation to the line of credit, should they decide during implementation that they
prefer to use their own funds for their institutional/IT development needs.

Component B: Enabling Environment for Financial Intermediation (US$8.025 million) to
finance institutional development (consulting services and IT/MIS) as well as training of the MoF
and selected beneficiary institutions (including the State Commission for Regulation of Financial
Services Markets (SCRFSM), State Commission for Securities and Stock Market (SCCSM), State
Mortgage Institution (SMI), Credit Bureau, etc.) to address the legislative and institutional
constraints which were impeding the expansion of financial intermediation, through the
strengthening of the regulatory capacity and financial market legislation; enhancing financial
sector and credit market infrastructure and improving the framework for borrowing by SNGs.

Component C: Project Management and Monitoring (US$1.6 million) to finance the PMU
staffing and MoF incremental expenditures for project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, as well as annual audit of the Project accounts.

1.6 Revised Components
No Change

1.7 Other significant changes

The Project had a long history of problems and difficulties. The Project was initiated in 2000 (the
Concept Review meeting took place on June 6, 2002). From the start of the preparation process,
the Project suffered from multiple delays due to many changes in the project design and
implementation arrangements. This included a decision made, for country programming reasons,
during the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) meeting in February 2005, to combine the
proposed Access to Finance for RSMEs project, and the proposed Municipal Finance project (for
SNGs) under one umbrella. This resulted in putting two very different clients in the same basket;
also, the project changed sectors moving from the ECSSD to the ECSPF Department.

After prolonged preparation period the Project was approved by the Board on June 22, 2006 and
the Loan Agreement was signed on June 23, 2006. The situation was exacerbated by volatile
political situation in Ukraine with frequent changes of government counterparts. The deadline for
the effectiveness was extended six times as the Borrower was having difficulty to comply with
the conditions of effectiveness (including dealing with the Project specific conditions by the
MoF). The long delays in effectiveness were related to the generally slow government procedures
for processing loans and political reasons in Ukraine. As a result, the Project was classified by the
Bank as a problem project even before it became effective. The Loan became effective on July 12,
2007--a full year after Board approval. During most of the preparation period, the Borrower had
access to the Project Preparation Facility (PPF, US$1.822 million, Letter-Agreement No. P04020-
UA) as well as some other sources of funding (including Japanese PHRD Grants TF025816,
TF025598 and PPF P04050); some of these funds were utilized for the preparation of the Rural
Finance Project and the Municipal Finance Project, which were subsequently merged as AFSP.

The Project also went through some changes during implementation (some with formal
amendments to the Loan Agreement). The changes included (i) in order to improve project
implementation, in April 2007, the responsibility for the technical aspects of the credit line
component was transferred from the MoF to the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU); (ii) in
November 2007, the responsibility for holding the Special Account was assigned to the (NBU);
and (ii) in response to the increase in prices since project appraisal, in October 2008, the
commercial practices threshold for procurement was increased from US$2 million to US$3
                                              4
million, and maximum RSMEs sub-loan size for investments was increased from US$1.5 million
to US$2 million and for working capital from US$0.3 million to US$0.5 million. The Project
disbursed only US$17.437 million before it was cancelled in October 2009 (see Table 1 and
section 2.2).

                          Table 1 Details of Loan Utilization (US$ million)
                                               Original Amount      Amount Used          Percentage
    Component A.                                    140.000              16.117             11.5
      A1. Line of credit                            125.000              16.117             12.9
      A2. TA for PBs                                 15.000                 --                --
    Component B. TA for Financial Sector              8.025                 --                --
    Component C. Project Management, etc.             1.600               0.093              5.8
    Project Preparation Facility Advance a              --                0.852             46.8
    Front End Fees                                    0.375               0.375            100.0
    TOTAL                                           150.000              17.437             11.6
a
    During Appraisal, Project Preparation Facility was included in Components B and C.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project's preparation, design, and quality at entry were based on the following:

(i) Consistency with Bank and Government priorities. The project's design to fill the gap for
RSMEs in accessing credit facilities fitted closely the CAS objectives of sustainable economic
growth, poverty reduction and reducing regional imbalances. The Project supported the
Government's reform agenda for addressing the impediments to the growth of the agriculture and
the rural economy and improving the financial sector.

(ii) Incorporation of lessons learned in the other projects. Important lessons incorporated in the
Project were (i) project design should be kept flexible with minimum statutory requirements; (ii)
use sensible financial indicators for the selection of the PBs in line with established market
practices; (iii) avoid restrictive procurement requirements unsuitable for private sector borrowers,
proven to be a hindrance to expeditious project implementation; and (iv) pre-commit PBs to
borrowing a certain part of a credit line as an incentive to be quick and effective in finding and
financing eligible sub-projects, thus leading to quicker disbursement of the Bank loan. However,
the Project did not absorb some key lessons of experience from successful lines of credit
(including in Ukraine, as Second Export Development Project, EDP2 was being processed at the
same time with the Ukrainian Exim Bank as the borrower and apex credit institution). The Bank
team did consider having the NBU as the borrower and implementing agency since the NBU has
a proven record in managing lines of credit and, as the regulator, has a close relationship with the
banks. This option was not supported by the MoF as it wished to play a more central role in the
preparation and implementation of the operation, and use the opportunity to build capacity in the
Ministry. In Ukraine, the learning curve on Bank requirements and procedures was about two
years - reflected in implementation delays and bottlenecks after Board approval.

(iii) An appropriate policy, institutional, and legal framework is a precondition for the healthy
growth of financial intermediation. The shortcomings of the legal and institutional framework in
Ukraine were contributing to the high cost and risks of lending and possible adverse selection,
leading to low levels of intermediation particularly to the APL target groups. The Project aimed at
                                                      5
reducing these costs and risks through Component B, including support from the PHRD Grant
and the PPF during preparation of this operation.

(vi) Identification of risks and associated mitigation measures. The Project properly identified
potential risks and put in place mitigation measures. The risks included (i) political risks in
implementing measures to improve the legislative and institutional framework (ii)
bureaucratic/legalistic approach of the MoF in implementation, (iii) quality and interest of PBs to
lend project funds, (iv) political interference in credit decisions, (v) lack of demand for credit due
to complex procedures, and (vi) for Component B, PMU's inability to carry out its role in a
timely manner. Mitigation measures included the Government's (and Opposition parties)
commitment to project objectives, pursuant of EU related reform agenda, and Bank's DPL
program. At the Project level, banks showed strong interest in the Project demonstrated by the
pre-selection of 3 PBs, preparation of Operations Manual with detailed procedures and
responsibilities for the MoF, PMU and PBs (credit decisions to be made by PBs taking credit
risk), developing streamlined procedures for PMU, provision of funds to hire short-term technical
experts to complement PMU staff skills, etc.

2.2 Implementation

Three PBs - Privat bank, Bank Nadra and Kreditprombank - were pre-selected prior to Board
approval of the Project allocating US$51 million, US$46 million and US$43 million, respectively,
the entire Component A (both the line of credit and PBs' TA) of US$140 million. In July 2007,
the MoF signed subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) with the Bank Nadra and Kreditprombank
(signing of SLAs with at least two PBs was one of conditions of effectiveness); Privat dropped
out of the Project. Later, three more PBs were selected-- Ukrprombank and Forum bank signed
SLAs (for US$20 million each) in July 2008, and Imex bank signed later for US$11 million--
committing the entire line of credit. However, Imex bank and Forum bank did not make any
disbursements from the Project due to the start of banking crisis in Ukraine in fall 2008.

The Project was subject to intensive supervision after it was declared effective in July 2007. Bank
missions visited Ukraine on average every three months, and made a habit of agreeing upon
specific time-bound actions plans with the MoF, in an effort to speed up project implementation,
but progress was sketchy. The MoF established a fully-staffed PIU generally compliant with
World Bank's standard financial management (FM) and procurement requirements, and
conducted the long-overdue audit of the PPF. In order to improve project implementation, the
responsibility for managing the credit line was transferred to the National Bank of Ukraine from
the MoF. By summer 2008, the MoF has entered into SLAs with five locally-owned commercial
banks, dividing between them the entire amount of credit line component. The banks had been
selected on the basis of their interest and compliance with financial eligibility criteria stipulated in
the Loan Agreement. The Bank team and the PMU-NBU conducted extensive training for PBs on
how to prepare sub-loans. These efforts resulted in a growing flow of sub-loan applications from
PBs, and the first disbursements took place in the summer of 2008 under the Line of Credit
component. The Bank also initiated discussions with the MoF and designated beneficiaries on the
plans for utilization of TA Component, and the draft Terms of Reference (ToRs) had been
prepared by twinning programs for the capital market and NBFI regulators.

However, despite an earnest effort made by the Bank team and the MoF, the Project
implementation was still not fully underway by the time when financial crisis hit Ukraine in fall
2008. Most tellingly, the sub-loan applications approved under the line of credit component
totaled less than US$25 million, and the disbursement stood only at US$16.2 million by February
2009. Unfortunately, MoF's cumbersome and time-consuming internal procedures for approval of
                                                6
sub-loan applications and processing of payments to PBs proved to be a serious constraint, as is
the case of most other investment projects in Bank's Ukraine portfolio. Although Nadra Bank and
Kreditprombank have both signed SLAs in June 2007, the first sub-loans were approved only in
early 2008, and the first disbursement did not take place until mid-2008. Given the turmoil in the
global financial markets and the growing Ukrainian economy, this low level of utilization of the
credit line by PBs was not consistent with expected demand at that time.

The implementation of the Component B was also moving very slowly due to the uncertain
interest of component beneficiaries and the weak capacity of the MoF and other beneficiaries to
use Bank procurement rules, especially for larger assignments. By January 2009, only two
procurement processes were launched under Component B, to look for long-term twinning
partners for the State Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets (SCRFMS), and
the State Commission for Securities and Stock Market (SCSSM).

Primary cause of the delays with disbursement appears to lie with the lack of experience and
cumbersome internal procedures used by the MoF for approval and payment of sub-loans. For
example, in the processing of micro-credits from Bank Nadra, the delays occurred due to the MoF
desire to conduct additional reviews and request more information about each individual micro-
credit (e.g. copy of original credit agreement, statutory documents of beneficiary, description of
sub-project, and proof of funds being used for investment purposes). Clearly, such requirements,
which may be considered normal in Ukraine government practices, were not consistent with the
simplified application procedures described in the Project documents, and defeated the whole
purpose of setting aside micro-credits as a separate product financed under AFSP. Given the large
number of micro-credits, a random post review of a number of them by MoF and Bank would
have represented a more practical and efficient mechanism for ensuring compliance with Project
criteria by PBs. Further, finalization of collateral agreement with Kreditprombank also took long
and protracted negotiations as the MoF required sub-loan specific collaterals, instead of other
legitimate type of collateral from PBs.

Impact of the financial crisis. By late 2008, the financial and economic crisis in Ukraine had
severely jeopardized the prospects for achieving PDOs. Existing vulnerabilities in the banking
system were compounded by a sharp downturn in economic activity and rapid devaluation of the
domestic currency since October 2008. The disappearance of most external financing sources and
the outflow of deposits led to growing illiquidity in the banking system. At the same time, credit
defaults were also on the rise due to the large credit portfolio extended by banks in foreign
currencies to un-hedged borrowers and due to the general economic recession. This had resulted
in severe shortage of capital in most Ukrainian banks (UAH 25 billion only in the 17 largest (1st
Group) banks) and several banks were put under receivership or liquidation.

Banks participating in the AFSP were among the hardest hit by the turmoil since (with one minor
exception) they do not have foreign shareholders who could provide liquidity support or
participate in recapitalization. By February 2009, two out of five PBs (Nadra Bank and
Ukrprombank) have been placed under temporary administration by the NBU after they failed to
comply with prudential norms and were suspended by MoF from participation in the Project.
Bank Forum was also suspended since it failed to comply with the minimum financial eligibility
criteria. The future of the remaining two banks (Kreditprombank and Imexbank) was uncertain in




                                                7
view of the large recapitalization needs (especially in former case)1/. Therefore, no new sub-loan
applications were submitted by the banks since the beginning of 2009.

Given the above situation, in December 2008, the Bank proposed to the Borrower to consider
cancellation of the Project in order to re-direct the resources to more productive use. During the
Joint Portfolio Review held in February 2009, given the deteriorating situation in the banking
system, and continuing implementation difficulties, the Bank has reiterated its proposal to cancel
the Project, and consider possible additional financing for the ongoing Second Export
Development Project (EDP2) implemented by the Exim Bank of Ukraine.

In May 2009, following intensive internal discussions, the Government agreed with the Bank and
requested to cancel the Project. As a result, US$129.365 million was cancelled in June 2009.
Some funds were still kept available for a few months in order to pay for the outstanding
contracts and complete the Project audit. In October 2009, the remaining amount of US$3.198
million was cancelled and the Project was closed (8 months ahead of the original Closing Date of
June 30, 2010.). Only US$17.437 million (or 11.6 percent) was utilized out of the total Loan
amount of US$150 million-- US$16.117 for sub-loans to RSMEs (Component A1) and
US$1.320 million for project management (Component C) - no funds were utilized for the
technical assistance purpose in Component A2 or Component B.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project had a good monitoring and evaluation framework, with the original set of indicators
including baseline benchmarks and targets, to track performance. The indicators were monitored
during implementation. PMU collected relevant information from PBs and submitted timely
reports to the Bank. However, during later stage of the Project, due to problems with some banks,
it became difficult to collect some data such as performance of PBs and final beneficiaries.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As the Project's focus was on a credit line for RSMEs, the majority of sub-loans were not
expected to produce any major environmental impact. However, given the rural nature of the
project, agricultural sub-projects which involve application of pesticides and agricultural
chemicals could trigger the safeguard policy on pest management. In order to minimize the risks
to human health and environment and to mitigate potential negative consequences, a pest
management plan for such sub-projects was developed and included in the environmental
guidelines manual.

Procurement, financial management practices, and environmental review process for the Project
were supported by the Operations Manual with guidance for the MoF, the NBU and PBs.
Implementation capacity was strengthened with the hiring of qualified FM, procurement
specialists, and part-time environmental specialist to assist PBs and PMU-NBU with safeguards
compliance. The FMRs were submitted regularly and the FM arrangements were acceptable to
the Bank. The Project audits (including for PPF) have been completed and found acceptable by



1
 / By April 2010, Bank Forum had resolved its shareholder dispute and was on the way towards achieving
compliance with the NBU regulations, including on recapitalization. Imexbank and Kreditprombank had
undergone capital increases in accordance to schedules established by the NBU.

                                                  8
the Bank. Environmental safeguards procedures were properly implemented at the NBU and PBs
as designed in the Operations Manual. All approved sub-loans were classified as having either
insignificant or negligible environmental impact with no sub-loan in Category C.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project was the first phase of an APL series. The objective of the APL program was to help
increase the contribution of financial markets to economic growth through the provision of
limited longer term finance for RSMEs and institutional development finance that can play a
catalyst role in development of skills, services and respective market infrastructure of rural
finance market. The APL2 was to build upon the institutional development of AFSP.
Unfortunately, the AFSP did not achieve its objectives fully and triggers for the APL2 were not
met. Therefore, the APL2 was not pursued. But, the resources saved from the cancellation of the
AFSP are being redeployed by providing additional finance for the ongoing EDP2.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives and design of the Project remain highly relevant with Ukraine's and the Bank's
development agenda. As stated in the FY04-07 CAS, important objectives included sustainable
economic growth, poverty reduction and reducing regional imbalances. The Project supported the
Government's reform agenda for addressing the impediments to the growth of the agriculture and
the rural economy and improving the financial sector. The updated CPS for FY08-11 aims to
improve the business climate and identifies export growth and stability of financial markets as
key outcomes. The new (2010) Government's priorities include stabilization of the financial
system for the revival of growth and development.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDOs were not achieved and the Project was closed ahead of time with a major portion (88
percent) of the Loan cancelled. Two PDO indicators were partially achieved, but could not be
sustained, and one indicator showed no results (see Annex 2). The institution building component
did not achieve any results. The participating banks did quite well initially in expanding their
RSME clientele and even ran special promotions to attract rural clients. In that respect, Project
PDO of expanding access to financial services for RSMEs was partially achieved although by not
using Project line of credit due to difficulties with MoF procedures and later due to the banking
crisis. The rapid growth in RSME lending was not sustainable - Bank Nadra ran into liquidity
problems in late 2008, and was placed under temporary administration in February 2009.

The credit line provided only US$16.117 million from the Project making six sub-loans totaling
US$8.220 million to RSMEs. Bank Nadra made two sub-loans (US$3.0 million),
Kreditprombank made three (US$4.1 million), and Ukrprombank made one (US$1.1 million).
The sub-loans were made for investments by the agro-processing, fish production and agricultural
enterprises in five regions with maturity of between 34 and 120 months - no working capital sub-
loans were made. The sub-loan amounts were between US$1.1 million and US$1.5 million, with
average size of US$1.37 million. In terms of the size of the RSME beneficiaries, three sub-loans
were made to firms over 100 employees, two to firms with employees between 5- and 100 and
one to a company with less than 20 employees. In addition, some 516 sub-loans totaling
US$7.897 million were made to micro-enterprises (with up to 10 employees) in some 19 regions
                                               9
by Bank Nadra (US$1.016 million) and Kreditprombank (US$6.881 million) with average size of
US$15,300. See Annex 10 for more details on sub-loans.

                             Table 2 Details of Sub-Loans Financed
                               Sub-loans to RSMEs                   Sub-loans to Microenterprises
  Participating    Number         Amount      As % of Credit         Number           Amount
      Bank                      (US$ million)   Line Used                           (US$ million)
 Bank Nadra            2            3.0            18.6                 54             1.016
 Kreditprombank        3            4.1            25.4                462             6.881
 Ukrprombank           1            1.1             6.8                 --               --
 Total                 6           8.220           51.0                516             7.897

                             Table 3 Profile of Sub-Loans to RSMEs
       Economic Sector                Agro-processing, fish production and agricultural enterprises
      Sub-loan Maturity                                 From 34 to 120 months
      Sub-loan Amounts                            US$1.1 million to US$1.5 million
     Average Sub-loan Size                                  US$1.37 million

 Number of Sub-loans by Size of          >100 employees                             3
           RSMEs                         5-100 employees                            2
                                          <20 employees                             1


Some of the six RSMEs sub-borrowers were classified as non-performing. By the end of 2009,
due to the difficult economic situation in the country, two sub-borrowers were on the edge of
bankruptcy due to under-financing and problems in the banking sector, the other sub-borrowers
were straining to keep afloat; one sub-borrower prepaid its sub-loan (breakdown of NPL ratios by
PBs is given in Annex 9.) In 2009, three PBs were not in compliance with the Project's financial
requirements. The PBs were among the hardest hit by the turmoil since (with the exception of
Bank Forum) they did not have foreign shareholders who could provide liquidity support or
participate in recapitalization. By February 2009, two out of five PBs (Nadra Bank and
Ukrprombank) have been placed under temporary administration by the NBU after they failed to
comply with prudential norms and were suspended by MoF from participation in the Project;
Ukrprombank has since been liquidated - but the MoF was able to protect its interest and was able
to get paid its outstanding loan in full. Bank Forum was also suspended since it failed to comply
with the minimum financial eligibility criteria (this bank since has received capital infusion from
another bank which was its shareholder). The remaining two banks (Kreditprombank and
Imexbank) needed large infusion of capital - Kreditprombank has since been restructured and is
now operating normally. The following describes Project achievements (based on the data
provided by the MoF).

Increase in the number of RSME clients of the participating banks. The number of RSME clients
of the participating banks has increased from the base indicator (for 2006) of 20,333 to 49,568
(for end 2009) against a target of 32,168. This data is based on two PBs (Nadra Bank and
Kreditprombank), and that the figures for Nadra Bank for 2009 were not available, so a 2008
figure is used in the calculation of the final count of RSMEs. However, the rapid growth in
RSME lending was not sustainable - Bank Nadra ran into liquidity problems in late 2008, and
was placed under temporary administration in February 2009.

Increase in the volume of longer term finance extended by the PBs to RSMEs. The volume of
longer term finance extended by the PBs to RSMEs has increased from the base indicator (for
2006) of US$450 million to US$910 (for end 2009) against a target of US$1,249 million. This
                                             10
data is also based on two PBs (Nadra Bank and Kreditprombank), as figures for Nadra Bank for
2009 were not available, so a 2008 figure is used in the calculation of the final count of the
volume of long-term financing. However, as explained above, the rapid growth in RSME lending
was not sustainable - Bank Nadra ran into liquidity problems in late 2008, and was placed under
temporary administration in February 2009. Also, as result of the sharp devaluation of UAH,
these figures may have come down but specific data is not available.

Legislation enacted related to new financial services and improved infrastructure, and legislation
to support financial services. No new legislations were passed during the Project. The legislation
on the local government borrowing did not give the local governments proper unambiguous
powers to borrow funds for a period of more than a year for investment needs or use assets and
revenues from payments as collateral. The legislation also did not guarantee creditors appropriate
protection in the event of local governments` default on their loan obligations. Since legislation
that would satisfy the Bank is essential for commercial banks` prudent lending to local
governments, lending to these SNGs could not be considered under this Project.

3.3 Efficiency

The Project was not quite efficient in terms of providing access to credit to RSMEs, in creating
employment or generating income as well as in enacting required legislations for the
strengthening of the financial sector (see section 3.2 and Annex 2).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Project did not achieve its Development Objectives - some indicators were achieved partially
(but not sustainable), while others were not achieved at all. The Project had tremendous
difficulties in implementation. In addition, the financial performance of several PBs deteriorated
significantly that they had to be suspended from participating in the Project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project's impact on poverty was positive as it helped some 516 micro-enterprises get access
to credit thus helping them grow and create employment. The PBs expanded their RSME
clientele. This also had a positive social impact by improving their incomes. At the macro-
economic level, the Project did not have much positive impact to the financial sector, which
contributes to economic growth, creating (and preserving) employment and social development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project did help somewhat in improving credit appraisal procedures among the PBs. Some
PBs indicated that Project's credit appraisal and documentation, and monitoring requirements
helped them improve their lending and monitoring practices including environmental review
procedures. It also helped build some capacity in the MoF (and the NBU) in terms of following
Bank's FM, procurement, environmental and project monitoring procedures.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


                                               11
The Project did not have any significant unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

Risks to the Project outcomes encompassed general country risks, risks to financial
intermediation, economic performance and project specific risks. General risks included political
and governance problems, global economic crisis, financial sector turmoil and macro-economic
mismanagement. The project aimed to improve the domestic financial sector, but otherwise these
factors were beyond the control of the project.

Project specific risks include the performance of PBs and sub-borrowers. As mentioned earlier,
the Ukrainian banking sector including some of the PBs, was hit hard by the global economic
crisis. PB's financial performance deteriorated and was put under receivership by the NBU--one
was later liquidated. In PBs, lending volumes declined and NPL ratios increased. Decline in
economic growth also had adverse affect on the PBs as well on the RSMEs. Annex 9 provides
additional information on the financial performance of PBs.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Project's identification and design were compatible with the CAS and the Project was
consistent with the Government's priorities for the sector as noted in section 2.1. The Project built
on the several lessons learned during projects in other countries. Clear eligibility criteria for PBs
were identified, and baseline benchmarks and targets for performance indicators were established
in the PAD. Further, three PBs were pre-selected before Board approval in order to speed up
implementation.

However, important lessons of experience from successful lines of credit (including in Ukraine,
as Second Export Development Project, EDP2 was being processed at the same time with the
Exim Bank as the apex credit institution) were not absorbed in design and preparation. Apart
from locating the Project in the Ministry of Finance (due to country sensitivities), for country
programming reasons different objectives of finance for rural SMEs and sub-national
governments were merged and only disentangled with some effort. The new Project Team helped
simplify the Project, although the TA component still showed some complexity involving several
unrelated (and not committed) agencies.

While the Bank Team did consider having the National Bank of Ukraine as the borrower and
implementing agency, this could not be done. The decision to locate such a Project in the MoF,
did not mean that it had the capacity (in terms of streamlined procedures and approval
requirements) to implement it efficiently, as is needed for the efficient administration of credit
                                                 12
lines intermediated through the private commercial banks. Such lines of credit (especially when
banks are taking credit risks) require full delegation to banks for decision making with respect to
the selection, evaluation and monitoring of sub-borrowers without any interference and second
guessing by the government agencies. Moreover, it should have been anticipated that having the
Minister of Finance himself as Project Coordinator (with signing authority for most project
related documents, including withdrawal applications), would also contribute to delays given the
Minister's busy schedules and political role.

It is interesting to note that the above issues (e.g. inclusion of SNGs, project complexity, and
MoF capacity/procedures) were indentified during the QER of the Project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank management and staff were very responsive to help turn the project around. The Project was
subject to intense supervision after effectiveness. Bank missions visited Ukraine on average every
three months and agreeing upon time-bound actions plans with the MoF, in an effort to speed up
project implementation. The Bank team (with the NBU) conducted extensive training for PBs'
staff on Bank procedures and preparing sub-loans. These efforts resulted in improvements in
Project implementation, and positive trend in disbursements in spring/summer 2008. However,
the financial crisis which hit Ukraine in the fall 2008 undermined whatever progress had been
achieved by that point. Under the circumstances, the Bank provided right advice to the Borrower
to cancel the Loan and provide additional financing under the well-functioning EDP2.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance in quality at entry and quality of supervision is
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's performance as a Borrower needs to be viewed in the context of prevailing
difficult political conditions in the country with many changes in the Government, ministries and
counterparts. The Government made sincere efforts to formulate and implement economic
reforms including in the financial sector. It gave priority to the revival of the rural economy in
order to improve social conditions and reduce poverty. But due the reasons of political economy,
it was not able to made adequate progress on various reforms and legislations supported by the
Project. On the top of this already difficult situation, the country was hit hard by the global
economic crisis which resulted in sharp decline in the economic activity and severe crisis in the
banking sector.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Ukraine's learning experience with Bank projects is gradual. The Bank portfolio in Ukraine
generally has experienced problems, including delays in effectiveness and in making any
significant changes in project design or implementation arrangements during implementation due
                                               13
to lengthy procedures including requiring Parliament approval in many cases. The government-
wide prevailing bureaucratic procedures and control oriented culture, and slow decision making
further contributes to this situation. By the time borrowers and implementing agencies become
familiar with Bank procedures and requirements, and the initial delays of loan ratification are
overcome, a significant of time would easily have passed.

The MoF made earnest efforts to implement the Project effectively. A MoF team was dedicated to
this Project with fully staffed PMU and the PMU expertise was supplemented by hiring technical
experts. However, the MoF was unable to streamline implementation/disbursements procedures
given its internal practices and requirements. The coordination between the MoF, NBU and PBs
was also not smooth. Even when the responsibility of managing the credit line was transferred to
the NBU, the MoF put in-charge a deputed unit of seven staff and continued to review sub-loan
applications and documentation. The Ministry was also slow in handling requests from the
beneficiary agencies for the processing of technical assistance and training procurement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

       Preparing a project with simple and non-complex design to suit the absorptive capacity of
       the Borrower and implementing and beneficiary agencies in critical. In particular, in
       politically complex environments such as Ukraine, apparent synergies across sectors and
       agencies may well convert into significant implementation problems. In addition to
       simplicity, selectivity ­ among target sectors, implementation agencies, beneficiaries ­ is
       of key importance.
       Choosing carefully the key agency for project implementation and learning from lessons
       of experience is important. Apex structures for credit lines where decision-taking is slow
       due to over-formalized processes are not appropriate.
       At times, rather than persisting against the odds, it may be better for the Bank and the
       country to accept that an attempt to reach worthwhile development objectives is not
       working (say after the second or third extension of effectiveness) and discuss alternative
       ways of achieving the objectives. Decisions to discontinue protracted preparation of
       proposed projects or to cancel slow-moving existing projects (potentially reallocating the
       cancelled loan amount to a related similar project) should be taken sooner rather than
       later, so as to free up financial and human resources on both the Bank and the client sides,
       improve disbursement, and reprogram in order to set and pursue more likely achievable
       development objectives.
       Ukraine's learning experience with Bank projects is gradual and enough time needs to be
       built into any project. In projects with ex-ante established capacity building needs, the
       process should be clearly outlined at the start, and milestones established to track
       capacity transfer so as to arrive at the start of the project with capacity fully ready for
       implementation.
       Bank teams' persistent efforts may simply be overwhelmed by country circumstances, in
       which case the way out of a difficult situation usually requires offering an alternative
       which is acceptable to the country authorities and helps resolve the problem efficiently.
       Reprogramming a cancelled loan amount to a related similar project is one such


                                               14
        alternative which can be practical in agreeing with a potentially reluctant Borrower on
        eventual closure of problem projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower ICR input is included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                              15
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal        Actual/Latest                       Percentage of
           Components
                                    Estimate           Estimate                           Appraisal
Component A: Access to Finance       140.000              16.117                              11.5
     A1. Line of Credit              125.000              16.117                              12.9
     A2. Institutional Development                           --                                --
                                      15.000
     for PBs
Component B: Enabling                                        --                                 --
Environment for Financial              8.025
Intermediation
Component C: Project
                                       1.600               0.093                                5.8
Management and Monitoring
              Total Baseline Cost    149.625              16.210                               10.8
Physical Contingencies                   --                  --                                 --
Price Contingencies                      --                  --                                 --
               Total Project Costs   149.625              16.210                               10.8
Project Preparation Facility                           --1             0.852                    --
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.375                0.375                  100.0
                                        2
         Total Financing Required                 150.0                17.437                  11.6
1
    The Project Preparation Facility at Appraisal stage was included in the costs of Components B and C.
2
    Contribution from sub-borrowers is excluded.

(b) Financing (USD million)
         Source of Funds                          Appraisal         Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                  Estimate            Estimate             Appraisal
 Borrower                                            0.00               0.00                  0.00
IBRD                                               150.00              17.44                  11.6
Sub-Borrowers3                                      35.00               N/A                   N/A
3
    Data on Actual/Latest Estimate is not available.




                                                        16
                                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                 PDO                             Outcome Indicators                   Use of Outcome Information
 Increased access to finance by           A clear increase in the number of         Monitor rural finance strategy
 RSMEs through financial                  RSME clients of the PBs.                  (including creation of proper
 intermediaries under sound                                                         infrastructure and legal
 commercial practices.                    Target: Increase from 20,333 to           framework) to make adjustments,
                                          32,168.*                                  if necessary.
                                                                                    Feed into the strategy for
                                          Actual: 49,586 **                         mainstreaming program and
                                                                                    preparation of APL2.
     Intermediate Results                  Results Indicators for Each                     Analysis of Outcome
     One per Component                               Component                                   Monitoring
                                                                                    Component :
 Component A:                             Component A:
                                                                                    While the banks did well initially
                                                                                    in increasing lending to RSMEs-
                                          Increase in total volume of longer
                                                                                    the rapid growth was not
RSMEs have better access to funds         term finance extended by PBs to
                                                                                    sustainable. The low credit line
                                          RSMEs.
                                                                                    use was mainly due to the lengthy
                                                                                    procedures at the MoF and some
                                          Target: Increase from US$383
                                                                                    passivity of PBs, particularly at
                                          million to US$1,249 million.*
                                                                                    the initial stage. Since late 2008,
                                                                                    due to the crisis in the banking
                                          Actual: US$916 million **
                                                                                    sector, lending to PBs was sharply
                                                                                    reduced.
 Component B:                             Component B:                              Component B:

 Infrastructure and legal                 Legislation for new financial             No relevant legislations were
 framework for credit market              services introduced                       undertaken during the
 expansion established                                                              implementation stage
                                          Target: from 4 to 8, at rate of 1
                                          per year
                                           Actual: No legislation enacted
                                          Improved infrastructure and
                                          legislation to support financial
                                          services.
                                           Actual: No legislation enacted
 Component C:                             Component C:                              Component C:

 PMU capacity to monitor and               Target: Two surveys completed
 evaluate project progress                 Actual: No survey done
 *The targets were informally revised after the Project has become effective.

 **The initial targets were estimated at the exchange rate of (2007) 5.05 UAH/US$ while the actual results received are
 calculated at the exchange rate of (2008) 7.7 UAH/US$. This significantly affects the data and results measured.
 Additionally, since actual figures for 2009 for Bank Nadra are not available, the actuals incorporate the end result as of
 2008 for Nadra Bank and the 2009 figures for Kreditprombank. Further, as explained above, the rapid growth in RSME
 lending was not sustainable-- Bank Nadra ran into liquidity problems in late 2008, and was placed under temporary
 administration in February 2009. Also, as result of the sharp devaluation of UAH in 2009, these figures may have come
 down but specific data is not available. The data in Annex 2 is based on latest figures provided by the MoF (April
 2010) -- thus there may be some discrepancy in the data in this Annex and Annex 7 (Borrower ICR input).




                                                            17
                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not Applicable




                                   18
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

  (a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
           Names                               Title                  Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
      Prior to July 2005:
Rodrigo A. Chaves              Lead Economist                        ECSPE    Task Team Leader
Lawrence Hannah                Lead Economist                        ECSPE    Lead Economist
Angela Prigozhina              Senior Operations Officer             ECSPF    Operations Officer
Aleksander Kaliberda           Senior Projects Officer               ECSSD    Projects Officer
Signe Zeikate                  Consultant                            ECSPE
Olha Nychay                    Consultant                            ECSPE
Vitaly Kazakov                 Financial Management Specialist       ECSPS    Financial Mangmt Spec.
Richard Gargrave               Senior Procurement Officer            ECSPS    Procurement Officer
Ahmed A. R. Eiweida            Senior Urban Management Specialist    MNSIF    Urban Mngt Specialist
Radhika Srinivasan             Senior Social Scientist               ECSSD    Social Scientist
Steven Weisbrod                Consultant                            ECSPE
Katerina Petrina                Operations Officer                     ECSPE Operations Officer
Irina Shmeliova                 Procurement Assistant                  ECSPS Procurement Assistant
Since July 2005 (following the merger of the Rural Finance and Municipal Finance Projects)
Hormoz Aghdaey                  Lead Financial Sector Specialist       ECSPF TTL until August 2007
Angela Prigozhina               Senior Operations Officer              ECSPF Operations Officer
Rochelle Hilton                 Consultant                             ECSPF PSD Specialist
Martin Slough                   Senior Financial Specialist            ECSPF Financial Specialist
James Lacey                     Banking Consultant                     ECSPF Banking Consultant
Anna Wielogorska                Procurement Specialist                 ECSPS Procurement
Irina Babich                    Financial Management Specialist        ECSPF Financial Mgmt Spec.
Galina Kuznetsova               Financial Management Specialist        ECSPS Financial Mgmt Spec.
Irina Shmeliova                 Procurement Assistant                  ECSPS Procurement Assistant
Daria Goldstein                 Lawyer                                 LEGEC Lawyer
Alexei Slenzak                  Environmental Specialist               ECSSD Environmental Specialist
Andrina Ambrose                 Senior Finance Specialist              LOAG1 Finance Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Marius Vismantas               Country Sector Coordinator             ESCF1 ICR Team Leader since
                                                                            January 2010
Alex Pankov                    Senior Private Sector Development      ECSF1
                                                                            TTL since August 2007
                               Specialist
Alexei Slenzak                 Senior Operations Officer             ECSS3    Sr. Operations Officer
Isfandyar Zaman Khan           Financial Sector Specialist            ECSF1   Financial Sector Spec.
Anna L Wielogorska             Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR    Sr. Procurement Spec.
Irina Babich                   Financial Management Specialist       ECSC3    Financial Mgmt Spec.
Vitaliy Petrovich Bigdai       Consultant                            ECSPF
Vinod K. Goel                  Consultant                            ECSPF    ICR Preparation
Alina Tourkova                 Consultant                            ECSF1    Assist. ICR preparation
Hannah M. Koilpillai           Senior Finance Officer                CTRFC    Finance Officer
Cheikh Amadou Gamal Mbaye      Finance Analyst                       CTRDM    Finance Analyst
Angela Gurieva                 Finance Assistant                     CTRDM    Finance Assistant

                                                   19
Jorge O. Pena                Portfolio Officer                     CTRCF Loan Accounting Officer

   (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
   Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
   Lending
    FY02                                           1.00                        3.32
    FY03                                          51.08                       155.69
    FY04                                          47.73                       123.20
    FY05                                          33.23                       120.24
    FY06                                          51.02                       252.02
                 Total                           184.06                       654.47 
   Supervision/ICR
     FY07                                         38.14                       115.02
     FY08                                         35.77                       117.40
     FY09                                         21.53                        93.34
     FY10                                          6.76                        40.42
                 Total                           102.20                       366.18 




                                                 20
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not Applicable




                                 21
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not Applicable




                                        22
              Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                               Borrower Input (Unofficial translation)

. Appraisal of Objectives, Development, Implementation and Outcomes of the Project

      1. The high goals whose achievement the Project helped

Implementation of the Project was aimed at achieving high goals by creating conditions for
promotion of a private sector capable to meet competition on the international arena. It supported
the government priority program of development of financial markets infrastructure, regional
economies, rural, and municipal credit markets. Ways of achieving the objectives were mapped
out: (a) speed up the economic restructuring through increasing the flow of credit supply to the
sectors excluded from the financial markets on the whole, (b) increase the contribution of rural
small- and medium-sized businesses to the economy by facilitating their access to financial
services, (c) upgrade the quality of local public utility services through improving conditions and
investing into local infrastructure.

The adaptable program loan (APL) provided for implementation of the Project was supposed to
give an external impulse to access to credit markets for rural small- and medium-sized businesses
and local governments. In the medium term, this would result in creation of new jobs and hence
in poverty alleviation.

The said goals remain relevant for Ukraine and call for further efforts to achieve them.

      2. Project mission and stages

Throughout Stage I, beginning with the effective date of the Loan Agreement, the Ukrainian
enterprises were to be provided under the Project with mid- and long-term funding in the form of
credit line through intermediaries, whose roles were played by acceptable commercial banks (the
first selection was done in 2005 and the second in 2007). Also, it was planned to provide funds
for institutional capacity building of banks and technical assistance to promote an environment
conducive to financial intermediation.

The purpose of the program was to help enhance the financial markets` contribution to economic
growth through providing limited funding to rural small- and medium-sized businesses for a
longer period and by providing funds for institutional capacity building to accelerate the
development of skills, services and respective infrastructure of the rural financing market in
Ukraine. Stage I of the Loan (totaling USD 150 million2 that was provided by the Bank) outlined
the overall program, defining the basis necessary for the Project to continue for a long period.
Stage I supported, inter alia, the following: (a) granting of loans to rural small- and medium-sized
businesses, particularly farm businesses; (b) granting of loans to enhance financial intermediaries`
lending skills; (c) provision of technical assistance to strengthen credit market infrastructure and
the legal framework which will expand the access of rural small- and medium-sized businesses




2
    Inclusive of a commitment fee of USD 37 5,000.

                                                     23
and local governments to financial services. It was planned to arrange pilot lending for local
governments under the Project as soon as the suitable base for this was provided.3

The outcomes that would have ensured the transfer from Stage I to Stage II and the actual state of
affairs:

Reasons for Transfer to Stage II                  State of Affairs as of End of 2009
at least 60 percent of credit line used           a mere 11 percent of credit line used under the
                                                  Project
less than 5 percent of          regular subloans some 30 percent of granted subloans
categorized as nonperforming (doubtful or bad) categorized as nonperforming (doubtful or bad)
while fully granted
fair legal framework for leasing, factoring and no substantial improvement of legislation
credit unions (if these institutions are included
in APL 2) in place
fair basis provided for debt financing of local no substantial improvement of legislation
governments, including enactment of law on
local government borrowing, which will be
acceptable for the Bank
the government refrained from providing credit no loans (and/or guarantees) provided by the
lines (and/or guarantees) on nonmarket terms government on nonmarket terms
that could considerably harm the APL goals

It was planned that APL Stage II would be based on the institutional development initiated in the
implementation of Stage I. If Stage I was successfully carried out the APL would retain in its
structure the component that provided for extension of the credit line, increasing qualitatively
and quantitatively the list of financial intermediaries (such as credit unions and leasing
companies) and ultimate beneficiaries (such as local governments). However, the situation that
had developed in Ukraine`s financial sector in 2009 rendered implementation of APL Stage I
impossible. An almost two-fold devaluation of the Hryvnia to the dollar, the panicky behavior of
the population and political instability were responsible for a crisis in the banking sector, the
banks involved in the Project violated, starting in Q4 of 2008, the established criteria of the
Project. Part of the beneficiaries who had received currency loans under the Project faced severe
problems. The Ministry of Finance (MoF) had to suspend the funding of the subprojects as the
eligibility criteria set out in the LA were being violated.

    3. Key indicators of reaching the Project goal

The Project was designed for expanding access to financial services in rural areas, particularly for
rural small- and medium-sized businesses. Therefore, one of the quantitative indexes was a
continued increase throughout the Project in the number of such businesses, farm businesses and
agro-industrial enterprises as clients of financial intermediaries. The main indicator was an
increase in long-term lending to rural small- and medium-sized businesses (clients) on the part of
banks participating in the Project, compared to 2006.


3
  The GoU`s economic reform program requires large investments in rural and urban infrastructures,
housing and public utility services. These investments are impossible to make without enacting legislation
on debt obligations of local governments and without reforming the municipal financing system and
laying the groundwork for development of vigorous mortgage and housing financing markets.

                                                   24
    4. Components of the Project

The Access to Financial Services Project comprised three components:

Component . Access to Finance (USD140 mln, nearly 93% of Loan). The Component had two
subcomponents.

  (1) Credit line (USD125 mln) for granting long-term loans (for investments, current capital and
  leasing) through the participating banks to the following clients: (i) eligible rural small- and
  medium-sized businesses, and (ii) eligible farm businesses. Three eligible participating banks
  (Privatbank, bank Nadra and Kredytprombank) were selected at the end of 2005 on the basis of
  agreed criteria, including, in particular, the requirement that they operated on a sound
  commercial basis, met the minimum standards of financial operations and prudential corporate
  governance and complied with the NBU prudential requirements. Due to the refusal of one of
  the banks (Privatbank) to participate in the Project in late 2007, an additional selection of
  banks was announced, whereupon three more banks were selected (Ukrprombank, Forum,
  Imexbank). In total, five commercial banks acted as financial intermediaries under the Project.
  Private sector legal entities as well as micro businesses and entrepreneurs were considered as
  eligible rural small- and medium-sized businesses under the Project. The maximum amount of
  subloan for rural small- and medium-sized businesses and farm businesses was USD 1.5 mln;
  in October 2008, at the request of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine (MoF), the Bank
  endorsed an increase in the limit to USD 2 mln The maximum amount of subloans to replenish
  current capital was USD 300 , 0 00; in October 2008 the limit was increased to USD 500, 000.
  The amount of the microloans was not more than the equivalent of USD 50 , 000. Since no
  adequate legislation on local government borrowing and respective guarantees was enacted
  throughout the Project period the funding of local governments was not carried out.

  (2) Institutional Development of Participating Banks (USD 15 mln). Some 10 percent of
  Component  was envisioned for the participating banks` investment into their own
  institutional development and renewal of the IT that supported achievement of Project
  outcomes. The participating banks could at their discretion transfer all the amount under the
  Component or part of it to the funds they were providing under the credit line program.

Component B. Environment Conducive to Financial Intermediation (USD8.4 mln, or nearly 6%
of Loan). It was planned under this Component to finance institutional development (consulting
services and /information management systems) as well as staff training for the MoF and
selected beneficiary institutions (including the State Commission for Regulation of Financial
Services Markets of Ukraine, Credit Bureau, State Mortgage Agency, Ministry of Agrarian Policy
and the Securities and Stock Market State Commission of Ukraine). The training was to address
ways of overcoming legal and institutional restrictions getting in the way of financial
intermediation promotion. Under the Component, the World Bank in 2008 proposed
implementation of two twinning programs for the two respective state commissions that were
Project beneficiaries. In this connection, the Borrower revised the procurement plan, whose new
version was agreed with the Bank in September 2008 and posted on the Bank`s website. After
that, the MoF started the process of selection of consultants ­ legal firms or regulators ­ to carry
out the proposed twinning programs. At the bid evaluation stage, though, the selection process
was suspended pending the final decision on the Project`s future.

Component . Project Management and Monitoring (nearly USD1.6 mln, or up to 1.0% of
Loan). At APL Stage I, staffing of the MoF Project Management Unit was financed as well as the
                                              25
MoF`s total costs on the preparation, implementation, monitoring and appraisal of the Project
(including the advance for Project preparation and a front-end fee of USD375, 000). Also, the
annual audit of Project accounts was financed out of Project funds.

    5. Organizational structure and implementation activities

The Project preparation was carried out by using funds of the Bank`s advance loan for the
preparation of two independent projects:
     The Rural Finance Project (RFP), whose preparation was carried out in line with the
        letter agreement on advance loan (#4020-UA of 07.15.2003) and the letter of
        amendments thereto of 03. 15. 2006;
     The Municipal Development Fund Project (MDFP), whose preparation was carried out in
        line with the letter agreement on advance loan for MDFP preparation (Municipal Credit
        Market Development Program) (#P4050-UA of 01.20.2004) and which was closed in
        October 2006.

Also, to implement activities on the preparation of the MDFP, the Government of Ukraine (GoU)
on March 6, 2000 obtained from Japan`s Policy and Human Resources Development Fund a grant
(#TF025816) totaling USD432,150 that was administered by the Bank (of which USD
413,424.84 was disbursed; the grant was closed on December 31, 2002). The grant was largely
used to prepare and establish the Municipal Development Fund.

Given that the content and technology of implementation of the MDFP were similar to the RFP
and consisted in providing: a) a credit line for municipal development through authorized
participating banks, b) technical assistance to municipalities on a nonrepayable basis, the Bank by
its letter of 03.02.2005 proposed joining the MDFP to the RFP, which was renamed the Access to
Financial Services Markets Project (AFSMP). In doing that, the Bank argued that the join-up
would save funds due to the use of a single system of management and implementation of the
AFSMP.

As a result of the joint-up, the Project mission was supplemented with the following text:
expansion of access of enterprises, businesspeople and population in rural areas and
municipalities and utilities to financial services and lending resources.

The MoF bears general responsibility for the Project implementation. At the preparatory stage,
the Project was carried out with the help of Project Management Unit (PMU), formed in late 2003
at the MoF. The finance minister was the Project coordinator and the principal partner under the
Project. He authorized a deputy minister to control and supervise the PMU. The MoF PMU was
responsible for general organization of activities under the Project, coordination of efforts with
the beneficiaries and reporting to the Bank. The MoF PMU worked till mid-2006.
In early 2007, the organizational structure of implementation of Component A of the Project was
changed. In order to insure proper management of Project funds, the MoF and the National Bank
of Ukraine (NBU) concluded an agency agreement (#28000-04/43 dated 04.02.2007). According
to it, the NBU`s International Credit Lines Projects Management Group (NBU PMU) ensured on
behalf of the MoF the performance of functions related to maintaining and monitoring the credit
line under Component A. The conclusion of the said agreement was agreed with the Bank during
the preparation mission`s visit to Ukraine between Nov. 29 and Dec. 7, 2006. Under the agency
agreement, the general responsibilities of the NBU PMU included:



                                                26
      -   verification of the Ukrainian banks` compliance with the eligibility criteria through
          obtaining and reviewing periodic reports and reporting any breach of the criteria to the
          NBU;
      -   assistance and advise to the Ukrainian banks and beneficiaries in respect of aspects of
          implementation of Component , including the timeframe and terms and conditions of
          the loans, disbursements and environmental procedures;
      -   submission of requests to the Bank for approval, with the copy to the MoF, regarding
          any subprojects that exceed the lending ceiling set in the LA;
      -   calculation of regular repayment amounts of the principal sum on the granted subloans,
          interest and other payments that are to be made by the Ukrainian banks, and notifying
          the Ukrainian banks accordingly;
      -   monitoring the process of repayment by the Ukrainian banks of the principal sum on
          granted subloans, interest and other payments of Ukrainian banks;
      -   preparation and submission to the MoF of the financial information necessary for
          compilation of a consolidated report on financial monitoring;
      -   monitoring the utilization of proceeds and compliance of the subloans and financial
          leasing with eligibility criteria through on-site visits to the Ukrainian banks and
          beneficiaries and document verifications;
      -   preparation and submission to the MoF and the Bank of quarterly reports on credit line
          utilization.

Funds for Component A were provided by the MoF to the preselected participating banks under
credit agreements whose contents were agreed with the Bank. The conclusion of two credit
agreements between the MoF and the participating banks selected in 2005 took place on June 22,
2007 and was a condition of Project effectiveness. For purposes of Component A, a Committee
for Selection of Banks for the AFSP and Monitoring of Eligibility Compliance by Banks
(CSBCM) was appointed pursuant to the Regulation approved by MoF Order #659 dated Sept.
26, 2005. The CSBCM included representatives of the MoF and the NBU. Based on approved
selection criteria, the CSBCM conducted preselection and additional selection of banks. The
Bank sent its no-objection letters with respect to five selected banks. Throughout 2008, the MoF
concluded three more credit agreements with additionally selected participating banks. The
CSBCM worked within the entire period of Project implementation, so as to help confirm the
participating banks` permanent eligibility compliance.

The participating banks played a key role in the implementation of Component . Subloans
were granted to the ultimate beneficiaries on commercial terms in accordance with the
participating banks` policies and procedures. The participating banks assumed a commercial risk
and were responsible for the evaluation of the subprojects and all lending decisions. Subloans
were granted to rural small and medium businesses by the participating banks in US dollars or
hryvnia. Microlending was in hryvnias. Thus, currency risks were assumed by either participating
banks or ultimate beneficiaries.

All subloans that were funded under the Project were first examined by the Bank. Prior to loan
applications being filed with the Bank, the NBU PMU examined them and made its own
recommendations noting whether or not the subloans met the eligibility criteria.


                                               27
Only two participating banks (Nadra and Ukrprombank) planned in the short term to utilize the
funds of Subcomponent 2 for their own institutional development and IT needs. These activities
were consistent with the general business strategy and planning and were discussed with the Bank
throughout 2008. Funding under Subcomponent 2 did not start by 2009 and thereafter could not
be carried out due to the financial condition of the participating banks concerned.

Ukrainian legislation on local government borrowing did not give the local governments proper
unambiguous powers to borrow funds for a period more than a year for investment needs or use
assets and revenues from payments as collateral. Nor did the legislation guarantee creditors
appropriate protection in the event of local government`s default on their loan obligations. Since
legislation that would satisfy the Bank is essential for commercial banks` prudent lending to local
governments, lending to these governments could not be considered under this Project.

The MoF arranged and managed funds and activities under Components  and . To comply
with the Bank`s requirement that staff have specialized knowledge of financial management and
disbursement of funds, procurement, and environmental impact assessment, the MoF in 2008,
using Component C funds, hired the required professionals (financial manager, procurement
consultant and environmental consultant). These specialists worked as part of the PMU of the
Access to Financial Services Markets Project and reported to the Project coordinator appointed by
the MoF`s order.

    6. Monitoring and appraisal of outcomes

Successes in the attainment of objectives of the program were measured by a system of
monitoring and appraisal based on the methods specified in the Project Appraisal Document. The
monitoring and appraisal system produced information about specific quantitative targets
according to key performance indicators (see Annex 1) on the basis of data gathered from the
participating banks and beneficiaries.

The participating banks and beneficiaries, throughout the Project and the period of the subloan
agreements, maintained the records needed for measuring efficiency and viability of their
operations associated with the Project.

The Project`s social and economic impact on the real sector of the economy and the financial
sector was not significant because the credit line (Subcomponent .1) was funded on a small
scale (11.5% of planned target) for one year, from March 2008 till March 2009. The funding of
institutional development (Subcomponent .2) did not start at all, the amounts of the applications
filed by two authorized banks in the process of Project implementation were small.

The Project`s overall impact on the financial market`s institutional development can be regarded
as small. Because it is only at the preparatory stage of the Project that activities on improvement
of lending relations (assistance in setting up the State Mortgage Agency of level two and the All-
Ukrainian Credit Bureau) were implemented.

. Appraisal of MOF Performance in the Project Generation and Implementation

Achievement of objectives: outcomes and lessons learned

The key targets of the Advance for the Rural Finance Project preparation included:
   - establishment of a credit bureau for rural economy development;

                                                28
    - development of financial sector and local governments, management of a financial services
    markets project;
    - institutional development of financial intermediaries.

As part of the series of preparatory activities undertaken under the Advance for the AFSMP,
consulting technical assistance was given to its beneficiaries ­ the State Committee for
Regulation of Financial Services Markets, NBU, Ministry of Agrarian Policy and other agencies
in establishing the First All-Ukrainian Credit Bureau and the State Mortgage Agency (the
required documents were developed ­ draft business plan and development strategy -- and
analytical research was conducted for creating the State Mortgage Agency, a financial institution
of level two), reviewing and improving legal and regulatory documents on insurance, cooperative
lending (the State Committee for Regulation of Financial Services Markets received consulting
services for preparing a concept paper of cooperative lending development in Ukraine),
prudential supervision in the nonbank financial sector, minimizing risks in the agricultural sector,
etc.

Also, within the framework of the Advance for the AFSMP, the MoF arranged a competitive
selection of authorized banks that acted as financial intermediaries in implementing the credit
line. Therefore, at the stage of LA signing, the Project`s viability was deemed sufficient, the
objectives and ways of their attainment seemed to be clearly defined and the implementing
entity`s organizational structure looked adequate.

During the Project implementation, the authorized banks indicated in their applications for
refinancing out of Loan proceeds 24 loans that had been granted by them to rural small and
medium businesses, amounting to USD 23.1 mln Of the applications filed, seven (amounting to
USD 5 mln) were rejected on account of eligibility noncompliance and the rest were approved by
the Bank. In actual fact, the banks received refinancing under the Project for six beneficiaries,
amounting to USD 8.21 mln

Given the opportunities afforded by the Project, the authorized banks provided 1,268 microloans
amounting to USD15.15 mln to rural private entrepreneurs. Most of the microloans were
indicated by the banks in applications for refinancing out of Loan proceeds. In reality, the banks
received refinancing under the Project (which could later be used to expand work with rural small
and medium businesses) totaling USD7.89.

The progress of Component  was slowed down above all by the lengthy review of the banks`
applications for funds at all stages of approval, beginning with the procedure of review of
documents at the NBU PMU and ending with the procedure of receipt of funds from the MoF
against already approved applications. Due to this factor, authorized banks were not in a position
to effectively plan approval and provision of new subloans and submit new subprojects for
consideration and approval under the Project.

The risk, an important one and underestimated at the beginning of the Project, that hindered the
Project`s progress, was the MoF`s lack of experience to manage a project under which funds are
lent to the real sector of the economy through financial intermediaries. It is for closing this gap
that a decision was made in 2007 to involve the NBU PMU in the implementation of Component
A of the Project.

What was unpredictable at the stage of Project preparation and implementation was the impact of
the global financial crisis on Ukraine`s banking system and this factor stalled the implementation
of Component A.
                                                29
The participating banks were selected according to clear-cut eligibility criteria for the Bank and
the MoF to be able to satisfy themselves that the banks were financially safe, well managed, had a
strong strategy, proper procedures and business processes. To enhance accountability, the MoF
introduced a procedure under which the participating banks were to confirm on a monthly basis
their eligibility compliance under the Project, the NBU was to confirm on a quarterly basis the
participating banks` financial standing, and acceptable independent auditors were to confirm on a
yearly basis the participating banks` eligibility compliance. Also the Borrower (MoF) applied
safeguards against the violation by the participating banks of their obligations, specifically signed
with the banks contracts for security against property rights and sovereign bonds. In 2009, a
situation had developed in which the probability of liquidation of Ukrprombank was very high
which, in turn, prevented the authorized bank from duly fulfilling its obligations under the
subloan agreement. The MoF, to protect state interests and prevent any violation of current
legislation, sent a letter of claim to Ukrprombank to demand that the whole amount of the loan,
interest and other payments under it in US dollars or in the national currency be reimbursed. On
October 5, 2009, the MoF and Ukrprombank, under an out-of-court procedure, signed a
Document on enforcement of a security and transfer of title thereto. In accordance with the
Document, Ukrprombank transferred to the MoF the ownership of 9,347 sovereign bonds
amounting to UAH 9.347mln, that were used as security under Contract for Security Against
Sovereign Bonds # 28020-02/139 dated 11.03.2008. Thus, as of Oct. 5, 2009, Ukrprombank`s
debt totaling USD 1,166,911.24 (UAH 9,346,959.03 at the NBU rate of UAH 8.01/USD) was
repaid in full. The situation that had developed with the financial intermediaries at the Project
proved that government securities are least exposed to risks and are the most liquid collateral in
the MoF`s schemes of lending to commercial banks.

. Appraisal of the World Bank`s Performance

Considering the Project`s complexity and scale, the Bank`s work on the Project preparation and
implementation, which included monitoring and support to the Borrower in resolving problems
that might affect the Project, can be described as satisfactory.

The Bank`s experts provided considerable assistance in preparing the Project Operations Manual
(POM) which fact largely contributed to the earliest effectiveness of the Loan Agreement. The
practical experience of implementation of the Project necessitated making amendments to the
POM. The update of the POM proceeded in close cooperation among the Bank, MOF and the
NBU PMU.

The Bank provided consulting support in the pre-selection and additional selection of banks
participating in the Project.

This Project is classified as "FI". Environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01) policies were applied
to the Project, including the subprojects. To ensure compliance with respective environmental
legislation and the Bank`s environmental regulations, the participating banks` staff responsible
for handling loan proceeds examined the potential environmental impact of the proposed
subprojects. This staff did not include environmental specialists but, with the assistance of the
Bank`s experts, the selection of the subprojects based on environmental assessment was carried
out satisfactorily.

To monitor the Project`s progress, the Bank`s missions visited Ukraine on a permanent basis
which facilitated the prompt resolution of problems and sped up the Project implementation.

                                                 30
                         Annex 1. Structure and Monitoring of Outcomes

                ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES MARKETS PROJECT
Purpose of Project Generation                  Outcomes                    Analysis of Information on
                                                                                     Outcomes
    Expanded access to financial        Obvious increase in the         Existing system of client base
    services for rural small- and       number of rural small- and      registration in Ukrainian banks
    medium-sized businesses             medium-sized businesses in      provided no way of separating
    through financial                   participating banks`            clients by their place of business
    intermediaries who use              constituency                    and therefore analysis of client
    sound commercial practices                                          base trend was made by size of
                                                                        enterprises (small and medium)

   Enhanced legal and                                                   At the preparation stage of the
   institutional framework for                                          Project, certain outcomes were
   financial intermediation that        Approval of agreed legal and    achieved; at the implementation
   will serve rural small- and          regulatory framework            stage, no activities were carried
   medium-sized businesses and                                          out to impact institutional
   local governments                                                    development of financial market
          Milestones.                Outcome Indicators for each               Analysis of Outcome
     One per Component                     Component                                Monitoring
Component .                         Component .                         Component . Low indicator of
                                                                        credit line utilization was proof of
Access to funds improved for        Increase in total long-term loans   lengthy procedures of approval of
rural small- and medium-sized       provided by participating banks     subprojects and certain passivity
businesses                          to rural small- and medium-sized    of        participating       banks,
                                    businesses                          particularly at the initial stage.
                                                                        Since late 2008, due to the crisis
                                    .                                   in banking sector, NBU carried
                                                                        out rigid regulation of active bank
                                                                        transactions      which      sharply
                                                                        reduced       the     capacity    of
                                                                        participating banks to submit
                                                                        acceptable       subprojects     for
                                                                        consideration
Component B.                        Component B.                        Component B.

Infrastructure and legal            Legislation for provision of new    No activities undertaken at the
framework for credit market         financial services put in place     implementation stage
expansion created
                                    Infrastructure and legal
                                    framework for financial services
                                    support improved
Component .                         Component .                         Component .

Borrower`s capacity for             Beneficiaries` reviews              Given a multi-component project,
monitoring and outcome                                                  monitoring and outcome appraisal
appraisal under the Project                                             require involvement of respective
                                                                        expert at the implementation
                                                                        stage which was not envisioned
                                                                        by the Project




                                                   31
                                                                                   Outcome Monitoring Activities
                                                                                     Target Variable                                                    Data Collection and Reporting
  Outcome indicators of           Base         Year 0           Year1 2007              Year 2                               Year 3             Frequency Data gathering Responsible for
     Component A                indicator       FPP                                      2008                                 2009             and reporting      tools        data gathering
                               (December
                                  2006)
                                                               plan     actual     plan            actual          plan               actual
Increase in the number of                    Base                Year 0 + %      Year 1 + %                     Year 2 + %                     NBU quarterly IFC business        PMU
rural small- and medium-                     indicator                                                                                         bulletins     reviews
sized businesses who are
participating banks` clients                                                                                                                   NBU PMU                           PMU, sub-
 Kredytprombank                1,773          Base         -      3,623           3,804       4,105             3,918          4,206           quarterly       Banks` reports    borrowers and
                                              indicator                                                                                        reports         to NBU            other Project
                                                                                                                                                                                 beneficiaries
Quantitative increase          -                           -      104,34 %        5%          13,30 %           3%             2,5 %           Quarterly,      Regular reports
(thousand persons)                                                                                                                             semiannual      of Project
                                                                                                                                               and annual      beneficiaries
Percentage increase                                                                                                                            reports and
Nadra Bank                     18,560         Base         -      21,340          25,910      45,380            28,250         Data not        financial
                                              indicator                                                                        furnished       statements of
Quantitative increase          -                           -      14,98 %         21,42 %     112,65 %          9,03 %                         participating
(thousand persons)                                                                                                                             banks


Percentage increase
Increase in total long-term                 Base          Year 0 + %             Year 1 + %                      Year 2 + %                    NBU bulletins Reviews             Participating
loans provided by                           indicator                                                                                          (quarterly and                    banks/ PMU
participating banks to rural                                                                                                                   annual)        NBU data
small- and medium-sized
businesses                                                                                                                                     Quarterly,      PMU data
 Kredytprombank                 1070         Base          -      2 756           3 158            3 868          3 253          3 954         semiannual
                                ($ 212)*     indicator            ($ 545)*        ($ 624)*         ($ 502)**      ($ 643)*       ($ 495)***    and annual
 Quantitative increase                                     -                                                                                   reports and
 (UAH mln and USD mln)                                            157,57 %        14,59 %          40,35 %        3,01 %         2,22 %        financial
                                                                                                                                               statements of
                                                                                                                                               participating
 Percentage increase                                                                               (-7.8%)                       (-1.4%)       banks
 Nadra Bank                     861          Base          -      2024            2 530            3 244          3 061          Data not
                                ($ 171)*     indicator            ($ 401)*        ($ 501)*         ($ 421)**      ($ 606)*       furnished
 Quantitative increase                                     -
 (UAH mln and USD mln)                                            135,08 %        25,00 %          60,28 %        21,00 %

 Percentage increase                                                                               (5 %)
        *Plan's quantitative increase in USD for all years ­ exchange rate (2007) 5.05 UAH/USD $
        ** actual's quantitative in USD - exchange rate (2008) 7.7 UAH/USD $
        *** actual's quantitative in USD - exchange rate (2009) 7.985 UAH/USD $




                                                                                                           32
         Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not Applicable




                                        33
          Annex 9. Financial Performance of Participating Banks

    Kreditprombank            2005        2006         2007         2008      2009
 Capital adequacy ratio       17.71       18.53        14.41         15.54    16.05
 Equity/assets                 11.7       11.87        9.54          9.22     13.90
 Return on equity              4.5        8.23         5.00         -28.98   -15.91
 Return on assets              0.53       0.98         0.48          -2.67    -2.21
 Gross NPLs/ Total loans       1.89       0.64         1.22           4.24     8.75
 Total Assets (USD million)    564        1399         2307          1778     1741
 Loans (USD million)           337         922         1664          1451     1475
 Equity (USD million)           66         166          220           164      242
       Bank Nadra             2005        2006         2007        2008 **   2009 **
 Capital adequacy ratio       12.76       19.23        12.46        10.54     N/A
 Equity/assets                10.63       16.56        11.42        8.80      1.93
 Return on equity             21.09       16.07        17.66        0.96      -285
 Return on assets              2.24       2.66         2.02         0.08      -5.5
 Gross NPLs/ Total loans       N/A        7.36         12.82         N/A      N/A
 Total Assets (USD million)   1204        1878         3668         3967      3111
 Loans (USD million)           814        1405         2872         2970      3104
 Equity (USD million)          128         311          419          349       60
      Ukrprombank             2005        2006         2007        2008 **   2009 **
 Capital adequacy ratio        N/A        15.11        12.56        10.35     N/A
 Equity/assets                15.38       14.06        11.88        12.03     N/A
 Return on equity              3.73       5.44         5.92         0.93      N/A
 Return on assets              0.57       0.77         0.70         0.11      N/A
 Gross NPLs/ Total loans       0.53       0.24         0.36         3.60      N/A
 Total Assets (USD million)    813        1294         2230         2078      N/A
 Loans (USD million)           689        1053         1766         1630      N/A
 Equity (USD million)          125         182          265          250      N/A
          Forum               2005        2006         2007         2008      2009
 Capital adequacy ratio        14         12.04        16.74         14.05    N/A
 Equity/assets                9.83        10.40        10.73         7.35      9.6
 Return on equity             5.4          5.1         0.77         -26.98   -35.47
 Return on assets             0.5          0.5         0.08          -1.98    - 3.4
 Gross NPLs/ Total loans      0.21        0.39         0.33          1.07     N/A
 Total Assets (USD million)   743         1461         2348          2423     2436
 Loans (USD million)          451          978         1853          2071     2129
 Equity (USD million)          73          152          252           178      234
        Imexbank              2005        2006         2007          2008     2009
 Capital adequacy ratio        15          16           13          15.15     19.41
 Equity/assets                9.43        10.91        11.51        13.66     15.80
 Return on equity             1.89        6.61         7.38         7.35     -12.95
 Return on assets             0.18        0.72         0.85         1.00     - 2.05
 Gross NPLs/ Total loans      0.51        0.64         0.66         0.67      4.93
 Total Assets (USD million)   318          495          782          805       709
 Loans (USD million)          180          277          460          470       489
 Equity (USD million)          30          54           90           110       112
** The bank is either under temporary administration or in liquidation.
Data for some banks is not available.
Source: MoF


                                            34
                              Credit to Private Sector (Real Sector) 1/
                                      Amounts (US$ million)                             As % of total credit
                            2006              2007              2008            2006           2007            2008
    OJSC
    Kreditprombank           647              1117              1074            67.77          65.44           67.43
    JSC Bank Nadra
                             641              1145              1400            45.60          39.85           44.16
    Ukrprombank              190              1400              1204            18.05          79.28           73.88

    Forum                    341              1460              1514            34.87          78.79           73.10

 Imexbank                    105                359             396            37.61         78.04             80.92
1
 Excluding credit extended to financial institutions, and consumer loans and credit card receivables.
Source: MoF



                                       Details of Sub-Loans Financed
         Participating      Number          Amount         Amount        Amount                     Amount             NPL
            Bank            of Sub-        Approved      Repaid (US$ Outstanding                   in Default          Ratio
                             Loans           (US$          million)       (US$                        (US$             (%)1/
                                            million)                     million)                   million)
                                               Sub-loans to RSMEs
    Bank Nadra                  2              3               0            3                           0
    Kreditprombank              3             4.1            0.22         3.88                          0
    Ukrprombank                 1             1.1            1.1            0                           0
    Total                       6             8.2            1.32         6.88                          0
                                           Sub-loans to Microenterprises
    Bank Nadra                 54            1.016             0          1.016                         0
    Kreditprombank             462           6.881          0.344         6.536                         0
    Ukrprombank                                --                            -                          0
    Total                      516           7.897          0.344         7.552                         0
    1/
  NPL data not available
Source: All data in Annex 9 was provided by MoF- data for some banks is not available.




                                                           35
   Annex 10. Distribution of Loans by Region, Sector, and Loan & RSME Size
                                         Amount                Number of Sub-Loans
 SECTOR
                              US$ million         Share (%)    Count      Share (%)
 Egg processing industry          1.5                9.31         1           0.19
 Fish production                 2.593              16.09         2           0.38
 Hothouse                        1.499               9.3          1           0.19
 Growing of crops                1.128                7           1           0.19
 Transshipment of crops           1.5                9.31         1           0.19
 Micro-Loans                     7.897              48.99        516         98.86
              TOTAL             16.117              100.0       522         100.0
                                         Amount                Number of Sub-Loans
 REGION
                              US$ million     Share (%)        Count      Share (%)
 Kyiv Region                     2.759              17.12        31          5.94
 Cherkasy Region                 1.500              9.31         1           0.19
 Crimea                          1.556              9.65         4           0.77
 Volyn' Region                   1.654              10.26        18          3.45
 Odessa Region                   1.533              9.51         14          2.68
 Kherson Region                  1.653              10.26        91         17.43
 Vinnytsa Region                 0.301              1.87         73         13.98
 Donetsk Region                  0.109              0.68         46          8.81
 Dnipropetrovsk Region           1.176               7.3         29          5.56
 L'viv Region                    0.211              1.31         45          8.62
 Kharkiv Region                  2.400              14.89        73         13.98
 Poltava Region                  0.178               1.1         45          8.62
 Zaporizhiya Region              0.048               0.3         5           0.96
 Mykolayv Region                 0.053              0.33         12          2.3
 Lugansk Region                  0.822               5.1         24          4.6
 Sumy Region                     0.055              0.34         4           0.77
 Khmel'nytskiy Region            0.038              0.24         2           0.38
 Ternopil' Region                0.034              0.21         2           0.38
 Kirovograd Region               0.037              0.23         3           0.57
               TOTAL            16.117         100.0            522         100.0
                                       Amount                  Number of Sub-Loans
 SUB-LOAN SIZE*
                              US$ million    Share (%)         Count      Share (%)
 < US$ 50000                     7.897               49         516         98.85
 US$50 001 ­ US$ 300 000          0                   0          0            0
 US$ 300 001­ US$ 1 500 000      8.220               51          6           1.15
 > US$ 1 500 000                  0                   0          0            0
             TOTAL              16.117             100.0        522         100.0
                               Amount               Number of RSME Beneficiaries
 EMPLOYMENT SIZE *
                              US$ million     Share (%)        Count      Share (%)
  20                             9.397              58.30       517         99.04
 50-100                          3.000              18.61        2           0.38
 > 100                           3.720              23.09        3           0.58
               TOTAL            16.117             100.0        522         100.0
Source: MoF


                                         36
                      Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents


1. Access to Financial Service Project (AFSP) Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 36281-
   UA, May 2005.
2. Independent Evaluation Group (2006), "World Bank Lending for Lines of Credit: An IEG
   Evaluation", The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
3. Project Aide Memoires, ISRs, FMRs and various other documents.
4. Operations Manual.
5. Financial Reports for PBs, Subsidiary Loan Agreements, MoU between the MoF and the
   NBU.
6. Financial Management Assessment and Procurement Assessments Reports.
7. QAG Disbursement Learning Review Assessment Report, October 2009.




                                            37
