Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4827-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Access to Financial Services Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 23, 2006 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4827-UA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2006 between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
February 28, 2006, describing a program designed to suppor
t
the Borrower’s efforts to 
increase the contribution of the financial markets to economic growth through the 
strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework, infrastructure and financial 
intermediaries (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of such Program; 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans to be implemented over a period of 
approximately seven (7) years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Program; 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the first phase (Access to Financial Services Project) of the Program as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows:  
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower 
or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on 
their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the 
proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the 
amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred 
to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Bank.”; 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Access to Financial Services Lease” or “Financial Leases” means a 
lease made or proposed to be made by a Participating Bank (as defined hereinafter), out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set 
forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a 
portion of the expenditures incurred by a Beneficiary or SNG (as defined hereinafter) for 
goods, works, and services under a Sub-Project (as defined hereinafter) 
 
(b) 
“Access to Financial Services Sub-loan” or “Sub-loan” means a loan 
made or proposed to be made by a Participating Bank (as defined hereinafter), out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in 
Page  5
-
3
-
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the 
expenditures incurred by a Beneficiary or SNG (as defined hereinafter) for goods, works, 
and services under a Sub-Project (as defined hereinafter); 
 (c) 
“Access to Financial Services Sub-Project” or “Sub-project” means a 
specific project, selected in accordance with paragraph 5 of the Attachment to the Annex 
to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary or 
SNG (as defined hereinafter), in whole or in part through the utilization of the proceeds 
of a Sub-loan or Financial Lease;  
 
(d) 
“Agricultural enterprise” means a legal entity whose main activity is 
growing and processing agricultural products and is defined as such in accordance with 
the national legislation of the Borrower for this type of enterprise;  
 
(e) 
“Bank Selection and Monitoring Commission” or “BSMC” means the 
steering commission for the selection of PBs (as defined hereinafter) for this Project 
established pursuant to the Order of the MOF (as defined hereinafter) No. 659 dated 
September 26, 2005 referred to in paragraph 2 of Section A to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, or its successor thereof; 
 
(f) 
“Beneficiary” means an RSME (as defined hereinafter) and agricultural 
enterprise or entrepreneur satisfying the appropriate criteria, as set forth in paragraph 4 of 
the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to which the PB (as 
defined hereinafter) proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan; 
 
(g) 
 “Credit Line” means the credit line for the provision of investment and 
working capital loans or financial leases at commercial terms to Beneficiaries through 
eligible PBs (as defined hereinafter), in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operations Manual (as defined hereinafter); 
 
(h) 
“Eligible Categories” means Category (1) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services and training and incremental operating costs referred to in  
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(j) 
“Environmental Assessment Requirements and Identification of Impacts 
and Mitigation” means the environmental review chapter in the Operational Manual (as 
defined hereinafter) describing the environmental, mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be undertaken under the Project to ensure that all environmental 
concerns are adequately taken into account in the carrying out of the Project; 
Page  6
-
4
-
(k) 
“Environmental Impact Assessments” or “EIAs” means the assessment 
to be carried out for Sub-projects requiring such assessment in accordance with the 
requirements of the Operations Manual (as defined hereinafter); 
 
(l) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Free-limit Financial Lease” means a Financial Lease proposed to be 
made in an amount less than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under 
paragraph 2 (b) (ii) of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for a 
Sub-project which qualifies to be approved by the PB (as defined hereinafter) in the 
absence of such prior review pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph; 
 
(n) 
 “Free-limit Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan proposed to be made in an 
amount less than the threshold specified for prior Bank review under paragraph 2 (b) (i) 
of Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for a Sub-project which 
qualifies to be approved by the PB (as defined hereinafter) in the absence of such prior 
review pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph; 
 
(o) 
“Institutional Development loan” or “ID loan” means a loan made or 
proposed to be made by the Borrower to a Participating Bank, out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for purposes of providing technical assistance and capacity 
building under Part A.2 of the Project; 
 
(p) 
“International Financial Reporting Standards” or “IFRS” mean the 
accounting standards issued or endorsed by the International Accounting Standards 
Board;  
 
(q) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or its successor 
thereof; 
 
(r) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(s) 
“National Bank of Ukraine” or “NBU” means the Borrower’s Central 
Bank, or its successor thereof;  
 
(t) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual to be developed and agreed by 
the MOF and setting forth the detailed Project institutional, implementation, 
environmental, administrative and monitoring arrangements thereunder, including the 
operational and administrative procedures for PBs (as defined hereinafter), in respect of 
Page  7
-
5
-
the preparation, approval, processing, financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-
loans; 
 (u) 
“PMU” means the project implementation unit of the Borrower 
established pursuant to the MOF’s Decree No. 672 dated December 12, 2003 or any 
successor to such unit;  
 
(v) 
“Participating Bank” or “PB” means a private commercial bank 
registered according to the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower and selected 
by the Borrower pursuant to criteria set forth in paragraph A.1 (a) of the Annex to 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
 
(w) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated May 
22, 2006 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (b) to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(x) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on July 15, 2003 and on behalf of the Borrower on September 27, 2003, as 
amended; 
 
(y) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(z) 
“Rural small and medium enterprise” or “RSME” means a private 
enterprise (where more than 50% of the shares or other equity interest thereof is held by 
persons or companies other than the Borrower, any agency, or subdivision thereof, or any 
local governmental authority, or entities controlled by the Borrower or such agencies or 
subdivisions); registered in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation; with less than 50 
employees and annual gross income not exceeding 
 500,000
for small enterprises and 
maximum 1000 employees and annual gross income of 
 500,000 to  1,000,000 for 
medium enterprises; and located in rural areas with a population not exceeding 400,000 
people; 
 
(aa) 
 
“Sub-national government“ or “SNG” means representative and 
executive bodies of territorial communities, villages, settlements and cities in Ukraine, 
and for the purpose of this Project includes enterprises, institutions and organizations set 
up under communal ownership and owned by the respective territorial communities, 
villages, settlements and cities in accordance with the national legislation of the 
Borrower;  
Page  8
-
6
-
(bb) 
“Subsidiary Loan” means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; 
 
(cc) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means an agreement entered or to be 
entered into between the MOF and a PB pursuant to Section D.1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
(dd) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, consultants’ services and training and incremental 
operating costs required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a 
PB on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan or Financial 
Lease to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultant services required for 
the Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; (iii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) 
on account of withdrawals made by a PB under an ID loan to meet the reasonable cost of 
consultant services and goods required for Part A.2 of the Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (iv) and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); and (B) minus (or 
plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
Page  10
-
8
-
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOF, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, 
financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
the MOF, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, consultants’ services and training and incremental operating costs required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further 
elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the MOF, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MOF, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  12
-
10
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through the MOF, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank) referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through the MOF, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
Page  13
-
11
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
objectively adversely and materially affect the carrying out of the Program, or a 
significant part thereof. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness and Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions that: 
(a)  
the Borrower has provided evidence that at least two Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the selected PBs on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)  
the Borrower has provided evidence that the Operations Manual has been 
approved by the Borrower, through the MOF, under terms satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (a) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
referred to in Section 6.01 have been duly authorized or ratified by and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the PBs in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  14
-
12
-
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 
Kyiv, 01008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
131450 
  (380-44) 
201-56-85 
 
(380-44) 201-56-84 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kyiv, Ukraine, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By /s/ Volodymyr Matviychuk 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Paul Bermingham 
Authorized Representative 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) Goods, 
Works 
147,803,000 
100% 
 
Consultant Services, Sub-loans 
 Financial 
Leases, 
 
ID loans, Training and  
 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
 
(2) 
Project Preparation Advance 
1,822,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.02(b) of this 
 
Agreement  
 
(3)   
Front-end fee 
375,000
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 150,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a)  
“Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower to finance reasonable and necessary operating expenses of the PMU in respect 
of its operations and administration of activities under the Project, and which are payable 
on account of cost of rent and utilities, office equipment and supplies, maintenance, 
communication and transportation and all other expenses as may be agreed with the 
Bank. 
(b)  
“Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection 
with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including reasonable costs of 
Page  16
-
14
-
transportation, accommodation, per diem and interpretation services and cost of study 
tours, workshops, and any other training related costs agreed upon with the Bank. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) works costing less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (v) Sub-loans, Financial Leases and ID loans; and (vi) 
Training and Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, may open and maintain in Dollars a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which can not be the subject of set off, seizure or attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
Page  17
-
15
-
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special
 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
Page  18
-
16
-
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of thi
s
Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount not exceeding $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
18
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and  
(ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase access to financial services in Ukraine, 
for, among others, rural small and medium-enterprises. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Access to Finance
1.  
Credit Line
Increase in total volume of long term financing by PBs to Beneficiaries and 
SNGs through the provision of Sub-loans or provision of Financial Leases to: 
 
(a) 
enable such Beneficiaries to finance on a cost-shared basis the costs 
related to the carrying out of Sub-projects in accordance with the criteria and principles 
agreed between the Borrower, through the MOF, and the Bank and set forth or referred to 
in the Operations Manual; and 
 
(b) 
enable such SNGs to finance the costs related to the carrying out of Sub-
projects in accordance with the criteria and principles agreed between the Borrower, 
through the MOF, and the Bank and set forth or referred to in the Operations Manual. 
2. 
Institutional Development for PBs 
Provision of ID loans to PBs, for their institutional development investments, on 
a
cost-shared basis, in accordance with the criteria and principles set forth or referred to 
in the Operations Manual, including support for the introduction of new technologies and 
procedures, strengthening risk management systems, development and marketing of new 
financial products, enhancement of financial institutions’ presence at the regional level 
and staff training. 
Part B
:
Enabling Environment for Financial Intermediation
Provision of support to strengthen the Borrower’s institutional, legal and 
regulatory framework in the financial sector and improve borrowing opportunities for 
rural small and medium enterprises and SNGs among others by improving mortgage 
financing; developing credit information systems; improving regulatory and supervisory 
functions on the non-banking financial services market; improving mechanisms for risk 
mitigation in the agricultural sector; and developing municipal credit market. 
Page  22
-
20
-
Part C
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including auditing services, and incremental 
operating costs and monitoring and evaluation for purposes of Project management. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  23
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On November 15, 2011 
 
3,355,000 
May 15, 2012 
 
3,445,000 
November 15, 2012 
 
3,535,000 
May 15, 2013  
 
3,625,000 
November 15, 2013 
 
3,720,000 
May 15, 2014 
 
3,820,000 
November 15, 2014 
 
3,920,000 
May 15, 2015 
 
4,020,000 
November 15, 2015 
 
4,125,000 
May 15, 2016 
 
4,235,000 
November 15, 2016 
 
4,345,000 
May 15, 2017 
 
4,455,000 
November 15, 2017 
 
4,575,000 
May 15, 2018 
 
4,695,000 
November 15, 2018 
 
4,815,000 
May 15, 2019 
 
4,940,000 
November 15, 2019 
 
5,070,000 
May 15, 20120 
 
5,200,000 
November 15, 2020 
 
5,340,000 
May 15, 2021 
 
5,475,000 
November 15, 2021 
 
5,620,000 
May 15, 2022 
 
5,765,000 
November 15, 2022 
 
5,920,000 
May 15, 2023 
 
6,070,000 
November 15, 2023 
 
6,230,000 
May 15, 2024  
 
6,395,000 
November 15, 2024 
 
6,560,000 
May 15, 2025 
 
6,730,000 
November 15, 2025 
 
6,905,000 
May 15, 2026 
 
7,095,000 
 
Total  
 
 
150,000,000
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
 repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  24
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
(i) Goods under Parts A.1 (b), A.2, B and C of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; and (ii) works for 
Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions:  
(a)
 
Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms.  Foreign firms shall not be 
excluded from the national competitive bidding process irrespective of the contract value. 
Page  25
-
23
-
(b) Procedures
(i) 
“Open tender procedures” shall be followed in all cases.  
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.  
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost.  
(c) Pre-qualification
(i) 
Prequalification, where used, shall be based on a “pass/fail” 
system.  
(ii) 
Minimum experience, technical, and financial requirements shall 
be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.  
(d) 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
(i) 
Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower’s territory shall 
be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that 
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.   
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises will be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
(e) Bidding 
Documents
(i) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s sample 
bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for 
the procurement of goods, works, or technical services (other 
than consultants’ services), all acceptable to the Bank.  
(ii) 
Bidding documents shall be made available to all those 
companies that have paid the required fee. 
(f) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
Page  26
-
24
-
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
(iii) 
No domestic preference shall be allowed in evaluating bids. 
(iv) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no 
negotiations shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
(g) 
Rejection of Bids
(i) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement. 
(ii) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(h) Securities
Bid security shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract. Performance security shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the contract price. 
No advance payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment 
security. The format of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents 
and shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
3. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
.4 Commercial 
Practices
.
Contracts under Part A.1(a) of the Project for: (a) goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 per contract; and (b) works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 per contract, may be awarded in 
accordance with the established commercial practices of the Beneficiary, due account 
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and 
reliability thereof and availability of maintenance and spare parts.  
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
Page  27
-
25
-
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
All 
Terms of Reference and technical specifications shall be subject to Prior Review. 
 
Page  28
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Section A
.
Institutional Arrangements
1. PMU
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, the PMU under terms of reference and with resources and 
composition satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes, among others, of the day-to-day 
management of the Project, including financial and procurement management and other 
Project-related tasks, all in accordance with the Operation Manual. 
2. BSMC
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the Project, the BSMC which shall act 
as a body responsible for the continued verification of compliance of the PBs with the 
eligibility criteria under Part A of the Project under terms of reference and with resources 
and a composition satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section B
.
Implementation Modalities
1. Operations 
Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall take all action required to ensure 
that the Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree or as the Bank may otherwise 
judge it necessary to update the Operations Manual to reflect and support a sustainable 
evolution of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the MOF does not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Operations Manual or any provision thereof. 
Section C
.
Progress and Evaluation and Monitoring Reporting
1. Progress 
Reports 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MOF, shall, commencing at the end of the first 
quarter following effectiveness, and thereafter, on or about the end of each quarter in 
each calendar year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
describing, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress 
Page  29
-
27
-
achieved in the implementation of the Program and the Project during the preceding 
quarter of the calendar year.   
2. 
Monitoring and Evaluation and
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Program and the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program and the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Program and the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2008, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Program and the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section D
Part A of the Project
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
relend to the selected PBs the equivalent of part of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Sub-Loans, Financial Leases and ID loans, under 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each such PB, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall 
include without limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule; 
(b) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the aggregate 
amount of all Sub-loans or Financial Leases made to any one Beneficiary, or group of 
connected Beneficiaries, from all PBs shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000; 
(c) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the amount of the 
ID loan made to the PB for its institutional development under Part A.2 of the Project 
shall not exceed 15% of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not be 
Page  30
-
28
-
disbursed until at least 5% of the amounts allocated to Sub-loans and Financial Leases 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been disbursed; 
(d) 
monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying out by the 
PBs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(e) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part to 
enable the PBs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the PBs therein set forth, and not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; 
and 
 
(f) 
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Page  31
-
29
-
Annex 
to 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the 
purposes of Section D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Part A
.
Eligibility Criteria
A
Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a Participating Bank, 
duly established and operating in the territory of the Borrower, in respect of which the 
Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that: 
(a) 
the Participating Bank: 
(i) 
must be a commercial bank registered and licensed in Ukraine 
with regional representation in at least 10 oblasts;  
(ii) 
is in compliance with applicable legislation and prudential 
regulations of the Borrower as duly certified by the National 
Bank of Ukraine every six months, including 
inter alia,
 capital 
adequacy ratios, foreign currency exposure, large exposure to 
single and connected clients and insider lending exposure; 
(iii) 
is in compliance with the following criteria as duly certified by 
the PB
’s management every six months and by the PB’s external 
auditors at least annually: risk weighted capital adequacy ratio of 
more than 10%; exposure to any single insider lending not 
exceeding 5% of the PB’s IAS based capital and aggregate 
insider lending not exceeding 25% of the PB’s IAS based 
capital; total exposure to any borrower or group of related 
borrowers not exceeding 25% of the PB’s IAS based capital; 
exposure to any single non-financial depositor not exceeding 
30% in total liquid assets; total deposits of the 5 largest non-
financial depositors not exceeding 35% of the PB’s assets with a 
maturity of less than one month; total share of non-performing 
assets not exceeding 8% of the PB’s assets; 
(iv)  
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, and has 
undertaken to maintain said policies and procedures; 
Page  32
-
30
-
(v) 
has agreed to submit to the Borrower, during the duration of its 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower and not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year, beginning with 
fiscal year 2006, an audit report which: (i) covers two (2) full 
years of its operations; (ii) is prepared by an independent and 
internationally recognized audit firm acceptable to the Bank in 
accordance with International Auditing Standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards; and (iii) except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, contains an unqualified audit 
opinion. For the purposes of this paragraph, the PBs will also 
submit the terms of references of the audits and pertinent 
management letters; 
 
 
 
(vi)
 
has adequate organization, management, staff and other 
resources necessary for its efficient operation and is sufficiently 
represented in rural areas;  
(vii) 
applies appropriate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and 
monitoring of Sub-projects, including for the efficient evaluation 
and supervision of the procurement and environmental elements 
of Sub-projects. 
Part B
.
Terms
1. 
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a PB under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall: (a) be denominated in Dollars; and (b) be 
the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans, Financial Leases 
and ID loans to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement providing for such Subsidiary Loan. 
2. 
Each Subsidiary Loan shall: (a) be charged semi-annually, on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal to 
the rate payable under Section 2.06 of this Agreement plus the administrative costs of the 
Borrower and a margin acceptable to the Bank; (b) be charged a front-end fee of one 
percent (1%) and such other fee that might be charged by the Bank to the Borrower; (c) 
be charged a commitment charge at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.05 of 
this Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time 
to time; and (d) be repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule calculated to have 
a
maturity of not more than twelve (12) years, including a grace period of not more than 
two (2) years. 
3. 
The right of a PB to use the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: 
(a) suspended upon failure of such PB to perform any of its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with any of the 
Page  33
-
31
-
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Section A of this Annex; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of sixty (60) days. 
Part C
.
Conditions
1. 
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PB shall undertake to: 
(a) 
carry out activities under Part A of the Project and conduct its operations 
and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, with 
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity with the 
investment and lending policies and procedures in line with general prudent commercial 
banking practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the purpose; 
(b) 
(i) 
make Sub-loans or Financial Leases to Beneficiaries and SNGs 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Operations Manual, 
including, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Attachment to this Annex; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the amount 
of each Sub-loan or Financial Lease made to: (aa) any one 
Beneficiary or group of Beneficiaries, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $1,500,000 for investments and $300,000 for 
working capital; and (bb) any SNG or group of SNGs shall not 
exceed UHA 40,000,000; 
 
(iii) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made to: (aa) any one 
Beneficiary or group of Beneficiaries, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $4,000,000; and (bb) any SNG or group of SNGs 
shall not exceed UHA 40,000,000; 
 
 
 
(iv) 
ensure that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the amount 
of the ID loan made to the PB for its institutional development 
under Part A.2 of the Project shall not exceed 15% of the amount 
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not be disbursed 
until at least 5% of the amounts allocated to Sub-loans and 
Financial leases under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
disbursed; 
 
(v) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the 
Page  34
-
32
-
Borrower and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes 
of the Project; 
 
(vi) 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive agreements priorly 
reviewed by the Bank, providing for Sub-loans or Financial 
Leases, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of 
the Borrower; and report on amendment on such agreements in 
the framework of the regular progress reports; 
 
(vii) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the 
carrying out by the Beneficiary or SNGs of Sub-projects, in 
accordance with general appropriate commercial banking 
practices; 
(viii) 
ensure that each Sub-project shall comply with environmental 
review procedures set forth in the Operations Manual.  To that 
end, PBs shall require each Beneficiary and SNG applying for a 
Sub-loan or Financial Lease to furnish evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank showing that the Sub-project in respect of which the 
application has been prepared in accordance with such 
procedures;
 
(ix) 
ensure that for Sub-projects which require an environmental 
mitigation plan, the Beneficiary or SNG shall carry out such 
environmental mitigation plan in a timely manner, requiring such 
environmental mitigation plan to be in compliance with: (aa) 
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank; and (bb) the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to 
health, safety and environmental protection, and shall include 
adequate information on the carrying out of such environmental 
management plans in the progress reports referred to in 
subparagraph (c) (ii) of this paragraph; and  
 
 
(x) 
ensure that: (aa) goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (bb) such goods 
and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-project; 
(c) (i) 
 
authorize in writing NBU to meet with the Bank’s 
representatives and provide the Bank any reasonable information 
regarding the PB’s overall performance and compliance with 
Project eligibility criteria, based on information available to 
Page  35
-
33
-
NBU as a result of on-site examination and off-site supervision 
of PBs; 
 
(ii)  
authorize in writing the external auditors of the PB to meet with 
the Bank representatives and provide the Bank any reasonable 
information regarding the PB’s overall performance and 
compliance with Project eligibility criteria, based on information 
available to external auditors; 
 
(iii)  
exchange views with and furnish all such information to the 
Bank and/or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by 
the Bank and the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its 
activities under the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Project; 
 
(iv) 
prepare and submit to the Borrower quarterly reports on all 
disbursements and repayments, and semi-annual reports on the 
progress made in achieving the objectives outlined in the 
business plans submitted with the Sub-loan applications; and 
 
(v) 
promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(d) 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition; and 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such information concerning said records 
and accounts as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request;  
(e) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree: (i) open and 
thereafter maintain on its books, in accordance with its normal financial practices and on 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, a separate account to which it shall 
credit, as the case may be, each payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of 
principal payments under, any Sub-loan or Financial Lease; and (ii) utilize all amounts so 
credited to said separate account, to the extent they are not yet required to meet said PB’s 
payment or repayment obligations to the Borrower under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, exclusively to finance additional development projects to further the 
development of the Borrower’s financial sector; and  
(f) 
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan or Financial Lease. 
Page  36
-
34
-
Attachment to  
the Annex to 
SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Financial Leases 
 
Part A
:
General
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of paragraph 1 (b) (i) 
of Part C of the Annex to this Schedule 5. 
1. 
(a)  
Each Sub-loan shall be made on terms and conditions, including those 
relating to the maturity, foreign currency denomination, interest rate and other charges 
determined in accordance with the PB
’s investment and lending policies and practices 
referred to in subparagraph 1 (a) (iii) of Part A of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, provided, however, that the interest rate to be charged on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, shall equal to at least to the 
rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Section B of Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement plus the 
administrative costs and an appropriate credit risk margin. 
(b)  
Each Financial Lease shall be made on terms and conditions, including 
those relating to the maturity, foreign currency denomination, interest rate and other 
charges determined in accordance with the PB’s investment and lending policies and 
practices referred to in subparagraph 1 (a) (iii) of Part A of the Annex to Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, provided, however, that the interest rate to be charged on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, shall equal to at least to the 
rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Section B of Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement plus the 
administrative costs and an appropriate credit risk margin. 
2. 
No expenditures for a Sub-project by a PB shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan unless: 
 
(a) 
the first two Sub-loans, for an amount above $50,000 each, and the first 
two Financial Leases for a Beneficiary by the said PB for such Sub-projects shall have 
been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the Borrower shall have 
received the application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in 
respect of such Sub-loans and Financial Leases; or 
 
(b) 
the Sub-loan or Financial Lease by the said PB for such Sub-project shall 
have been, respectively, a free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit Financial Lease for which the 
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall 
Page  37
-
35
-
have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the date on 
which the Borrower shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan or free-limit 
Financial Lease
.
For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) a “free-limit Sub-loan” shall be 
a
Sub-loan, other than the first two Sub-loans for a Beneficiary by each PB, and other 
than any Sub-loan to a Beneficiary in an amount exceeding the sum of $1,000,000, the 
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank; 
and (ii) a “free-limit financial lease” shall be a Financial Lease, other than the first two 
Financial Leases by each PB, and other than any Financial Lease to a Beneficiary in an 
amount exceeding the sum of $1,000,000 equivalent, the foregoing amount being subject 
to change from time to time as determined by the Bank; or 
(c) 
each Sub-loan or Financial Lease for a SNG by the said PB for such Sub-
projects shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the 
Borrower shall have received the application and information required under paragraph 3 
(a) of this Section in respect of such Sub-loan or Financial Lease. 
3. 
(a) 
When presenting a Sub-loan or Financial Lease (other than a free-limit 
Sub-loan or free-limit Financial Lease) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with:  
(i)  
a description of the Beneficiary or SNG and an appraisal of the 
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;  
(ii) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Financial 
Lease including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or 
Financial Lease;  
 
(iii) 
evidence of compliance with the Operations Manual and 
specifically with the environmental review procedures set forth 
in the Operations Manual; and 
(iv)  
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request 
and/or such other information as the Borrower shall reasonably 
request under terms acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Each Sub-loan or Financial Lease shall be approved on the basis of 
evaluation guidelines adopted by the PB satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
(a) 
Sub-loans or Financial Leases shall be made to the Beneficiary which 
each shall have established and maintained during the duration of its respective Sub-loan 
or Financial Lease to the satisfaction of the PB that:  
Page  38
-
36
-
(i) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, it 
will have a ratio of debt to equity (after receipt of the Sub-loan) 
no greater than 70:30;  
(ii) 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, it 
will not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its 
revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated cash flow for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall 
be at least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in 
such year on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred; and 
(iii)  
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying 
out of the Sub-project.   
(b) 
Sub-loans or Financial Leases shall be made to the SNGs provided that: 
(i)  
it is authorized under the law of the Borrower to borrow from 
PBs; and  
(ii)  
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying 
out of the Sub-project and all other criteria to be set forth in the 
Operations Manual and to be agreed by the Borrower and the 
Bank. 
 
(c) 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
(i) 
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Beneficiary;   
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into; 
(iii) 
the term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Beneficiary not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities; and 
Page  39
-
37
-
(iv) 
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments of, and interest and other charges on, 
debt. 
5. 
The Sub-loans or Financial Leases shall be made for Sub-projects which are each 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, to: 
 
(a) 
be technically feasible and financially and commercially viable; 
 
(b)  
be targeted towards expanding, modernizing and rehabilitating existing 
production or services capacities
 consistent with the Beneficiary’s or SNG’s rural growth 
projections; and 
 
(c) 
be in compliance with the requirements pertaining to environmental 
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Borrower and the 
environmental review procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
6. 
Sub-loans and Financial Leases shall be made on terms whereby the PB shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or SNG, rights adequate to protect its 
interests and those of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the Beneficiary or SNG to carry out and operate the facilities 
financed under the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; 
 
(b) 
without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph (a), require the Beneficiary or SNG to carry out and operate the Sub-project 
with due regard to applicable social impact, ecological, environmental and pollution 
control standards and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
 
(c) 
for Sub-projects which need an environmental mitigation plan, require 
the Beneficiary or SNG to carry out such environmental mitigation plan in a timely 
manner; 
(d) 
require: (i) that the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Sub-loans or Financial Leases shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) that such goods and works shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
 
(e) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Borrower and the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents; 
Page  40
-
38
-
(f) 
require that: (i) the Beneficiary or SNG shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Financial Lease to 
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; 
 
(g) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary or SNG and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-
project; and 
 
(h) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary or SNG to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan or Financial Lease upon failure by such Beneficiary or SNG to 
perform its obligations under its contract with the PB. 
Page  41
-
39
-
Part B
:
Principal Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans not exceeding $50,000
equivalent
1. Without 
limitation 
upon 
the
 Borrower’s obligations set out Part A of this 
Attachment, the provisions of this Attachment shall apply for the purposes of Sub-loans 
pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) (i) of Part C of the Annex to this Schedule 5 not exceeding 
the amount of $50,000 equivalent and provided to Beneficiaries with less than 20 
employees with the ability to service and repay the Sub-loan in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operations Manual: 
(a)  
the Sub-loan will be denominated in UAH; 
(b) 
the principal amount of the Sub-loan shall be repaid by Beneficiary over 
a
period of seven (7) years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding one (1) year; and  
(c)  
unless the Bank agrees otherwise, the Sub-loans shall eligible for 
disbursement upon the signature of the related Sub-loan Agreement and shall not be 
considered for the purposes of Part A.2 of this Attachment. 
.
