Docim.t of
The World Bank
FOR OmCaL US. ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                 RepNo. 10227
Report No. 10227-YU   Type: (PCR)
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAV tA
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2233-YU)
DECEMBER 23. 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENTS USED
Currency: Dinar
4/1982 (Appraisal)             US$1 -   46.0
4-12/1982 (Average)            US$1 -   54.3
1983 (Average)                US$1 -   92.8
1984 (Average)                US$1 -  152.8
1985 (Average)                US$1 -  270.2
1986 (Average)                US$1 -  379.2
1987 (Average)                US$1 -  737.0
1988 (Average)                US$1 -  2,522
1-7/1989 (Average)            US$1 - 13,200
7/1989 (Closing)              US$1 - 19,390
SAR Cost Estimates            US$1 -   64.3
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                 -     0.62 miles
Meter (m)                      -     39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)               -     264 US gallons
Liter (1)                      -     0.264 US gallons
Liters per second              -     22,800 US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS
BiH         -    The Republic of Bosnia and Hercegovina
BOAL        -    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
KOMPRED     -    Regional Work Organization, Public Utilities,
Tuzla
SDK         -     Social Accounting Service
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Program
VODOVOD     -    Self-managed Water and Sewerage Enterprise
*             WHO         -    World Health Organization
ZAVOD       -    Municipal Institute for Construction-Tuzla
YUGOSLAVIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR 0MCL4 USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of D,rectCeir- wal
Opmatmm Evaekatio
December 24, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Tuzla Region Water Supply and Environmental Project
(Loan 22 33-YU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Yu-oslavia - Tuzla Region Water Supply and Environmental
Project (Loan 2233-YU)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borruwer.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
2
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2233-YU)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .................... ....... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Projecc Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Background    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   1
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Project Implementation... ................. 5
Project Results   . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Project Sustainability ................ 8
Bank Performance ................ 9
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.)
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information
in Part III and the Analysis in Part I  . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and
Recommendations for Changes in Bank Procedures. . . . . . . . . 13
Evaluation of KOMPRED's Performance
and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3.  Loan Disbursements .....................  16
4.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5.  Project Costs and Financing. . . . . . . . . . .-;- . . . . . . 18
6.  Project Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
7.  Status of Covenant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
8.  Use of Bank Resources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
9.  Financial Statements and Data of the Borrower. . . . . . . . . 25



-1i-.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2233-YU)
PREFACE
1.          This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Tuzla Region
Water Supply and Environmental Project in Yugoslavia, for which Loan 2233-YU
of US$30.0 million (later reduced by three amendments to US$5.7 million) was
approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on January 25, 1983 and
became effective on August 24, 1983. The amended loan was fully disbursed on
July 27, 1989.
2.          The PCR was prepared by the Country Department IV Infrastructure
Division of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface.
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). It is based
on a project completion mission which visited Tuzla on May 3 and 4, 1990 and
information from the project files.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2233-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The project's main objectives were reduction of water shortages
and improvement of the environment in the Tuzla region of Yugoslavia, one of
the country's most heavily populated and industrialized regions (Part I, para
4). Other objectives were the institutional strengthening and financial self-
sufficiency of KOMPRED. KOMPRED, the Borrower, is a municipal service
organization for the Municipality of Tuzla. The main project components were:
(a) development of an interim ground water supply to overcome shortages until
a regional water supply system could be constructed; (b) water transmission to
be incorporated later into the regional system; (c) a sewage treatment plant
to reduce water pollution in the Spreca River; and (d) a central heating
system to eliminate local heating boilers that were the main cause of a
serious air pollution problem (Part I, para 5).
Implementation ExRerience
2.          The Loan Agreement was amended three times for changes in scope
and cancellation of Loan proceeds (Part I, paras 9, 10, 11 and 12). The
changes in scope eliminated project components representing 30% of the
appraisal cost estimate and the cancellations reduced the Loan by 81%. The
project scope changes were as follows: (a) downgrading of the sewage
treatment plant from a secondary plant to a primary plant and reduction in its
capacity; (b) elimination of the water transmission component; and (c)
addition of a standby heat source for the central heating component. The
remaining components and the standby heat source were implemented efficiently
and within the time frame agreed to at appraisal, with three exceptions.
KOMPRED failed to implement the sewage treatment plant (Part I, para 17),
carry out and implement a tariff study (Part I, para 19 and Part II, para 8)
and complete the final designs for the regional water supply system (Part I,
para 18). The reductions in project scope resulted mainly from KOMPRED's
failure to adequately compensate for the negative effects of high inflation on
its revenues, leading to a shrinking and eventually negative cash flow (Part
I, para 14). The loan cancellations were caused by: (a) the reductions in
project scope; (b) lower than estimated construction costs as measured in
equivalent US dollars. (The final cost of the project was 76% less than
appraisal estimates in equivalent US dollars but 490X higher in Dinars. Part
I, para 21); (c) a Bank disbursement policy which undervalues withdrawals for
reimbursement of local expenditures (Part I, para 22); and (d) substitution of
local financing for Bank financing (Part I, para 11).
Results
3.          The objectives of the project were only partially achieved;
however, the results are impressive in light of the drastic reduction in
project financing and expenditures. The project was effective i'n reducing
water shortages despite elimination of the transmission component which was
more important for the future regional supply system than for the existing



- iii -
system (Part I, para 36). Water shortages still persist because KOMPRED lacks
the financial resources to implement the regional water supply system. The
environmental improvement objectives of the project were met as planned for
air quality improvement but not for water quality improvement. The central
heating component was completed as appraised and the air quality in Tuzla has
improved greatly as a result. The sewage interceptor has eliminated pollution
of the Jala River which flows through the middle of Tuzla; however, the Spreca
River remains polluted due to KOMPRED's failure to complete the sewage
treatment plant. KOMPRED is a stronger institution as a result of the
project, mainly in the area of project preparation and implementation;
however, they did not achieve financial self-sufficiency.
Sustainability
4.          The results of the Project are sustainable.  The water supply
works completed in 1985 are producing at full capacity and have been
maintained In good operating condition by operators trained under the Project
(Part I, para `1). The central heating network continues to be expanded.
City regulations require that all new construction be connected to it and good
progress is being made in connecting existing buildings to the system (Part I,
para 33). The benefits of the sewage interceptor will only be fully met if
and when the sewage treatment plant is constructed. In the meantime, it will
continiue to maintain the quality of the Jala River as long as new development
is connected to it (Part I, para 32).
Findings and Lessons
5.          This Project has two important lessons.  First, financing plans
must be protected against inflation. Although the financial projections and
cost estimates included inflation, it was grossly under-estimated and the
financing plan contained no provision to compensate for it (Part I, para 35).
Second, it is unrealistic to expect communities to pay for sewage treatment
plants that only benefit downstream users, without some incentive (e.g., grant
financing or regulations enforced with fines that exceed the cost of
compliance) (Part I, para 37).
6.          Other findings and recommendations stemming from the Project are:
a.    The Bank's billing procedures make it difficult for borrowers to
budget their debt service payments to the Bank and should be revised, with the
needs of our borrowers being the primary consideration. (Progress is being
made in this area. Part I, para 39);
b.    Borrowers in Yugoslavia should be advised to arrange for local
bank guarantees at the beginning of project preparation, so that making these
arrangements does not delay the project at a later stage (Part I, para 15);
c.    The financial covenant which required KOMPRED to finance a
percentage of its investment from internal cash generation did not result in
adequate tariffs. KOMPRED met the covenant in some years by reducing
investment when it should have raised tariffs. An "operating ratio" covenant
may be more appropriate for projects where tariffs are likely to be an issue
(Part I, para 27); and
d.    Progress reports should be prepared with the PCR in mind so that
all the data required is available at. project completion (Part I, para 44).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT (LOAN 2233-YU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:      Tuzla Regional Water Supply and
Environmental Project
Loan No.    :      2233-YU
RVP Unit    :      EMENA
Country      :     Yugoslavia
Sector       :     Infrastructure
Subsectors  :    Water Supply, and Central Heating
Background
1.          The Republic of Bosnia and Hercegovina (BiH) is located in the
western part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY). The project area
covers the Tuzla region, located in the northeastern part of the Republic
where the southeastern slopes of the Majevica mountain descend inco the
fertile valley of the Spreca River. Tuzla and its surroundings are among the
most densely populated and heavily industrialized areas in Yugoslavia, due in
part, to the availability of raw materials such as salt, lignite and limestone
and also to the development of thermal power.
2.          The need for the project resulted from water shortages and
environmental problems related to rapid urbanization and industrialization of
the area with minimum planning and control. Subsidence in the center of
Tuzla, caused by the solution mining of salt, damaged or destroyed manv of
Tuzla's buildings and much of its infrastructure. Uncontrolled growth
resulted in water shortages and water and air pollution. Public awareness
brought about by pollution control regulations issued at the Federal and
Republic levels made it possible for local authorities to allocate resources
to address these problems.
3.          At the time of appraisal, the project supported the Bank's lending
strategy for Yugoslav.a which focused primarily on the less-developed
republics and its long standing support of environmental improvements. This
was the Bank's second environmental loan and the fifth water supply loan to
Yugoslavia. It also supported Bank urban sector objectives of strengthening
public enterprises and promoting full cost recovery for municipal services.
Proiegt Objectives and Description
4.          Proiect Obiectives.  The Project's objectives were to:
a.    reduce existing water shortages by developing an interim water
supply, thus enabling the urban and industrial development of
Tuzla to proceed as envisaged;



2 -
b.    improve environmental conditions in the Spreca River basin through
provision of primary and secondary treatment of Tuzla's domestic
and industrial sewage;
c.    reduce health hazards through alleviation of air pollution;
d.    improve the institutional capacity of the Borrower's existing
organizations in project preparation, project implementation,
operation and maintenance, and financial management; and
e.    assure financial self-sufficiency for the Borrower's existing
organizations through the implementation of adequate charges,for
their services.
5.          Protect  escripti2n.  The major components of the Project at
appraisal were:
a.    An interim water suRXy to serve Tuzla and two neighboring
municipalities consisting of:
i.    development of a groundwater source at Spreca Polje and
construction of a treatment plant for iron and manganese
removal with a capacity of about 130 liters per second;
ii.   purchase and installation of a pumping plant for treated
water to be located in the existing Spreca pumping station;
iii.  construction of a 15 km transmission main including a 0.5 km
tunnel section between Spreca Polje and Tuzla which would
initially carry water from the Spreca Polje groundwater
source to Tuzla and in the future be incorporated into a
regional water supply system supplied from a new source, a
reservoir on the Krivaja River;
iv.   construction of a distribution storage reservoir at Si Selo,
with a capacity of about 4,000 cubic meters, also part of
the future regional water supply system.
b.    UJpgrading of the sewerage system serving Tuzla municipality,
consisting of:
i.    construction of an interceptor (about 5 kilometers) and
extension of the sewerage system; and
ii.   construction of a primary and secondary sewage treatment
plant for the treatment of Tuzla's municipal and industrial
sewage.
c.    A central heating svstem serving Tuzla municipality, consisting
of:
i.    the construction of primary mains (about 10 kilometers) and
of secondary mains (about 23 kilometers);
iU.   the supply and instgllation of equipment for about 90
substations; and



iii. the supply and installation of a hot water pumping station
at the Tuzla power station, the source of the system's hot
water.
d.    Provision of o_ -cion and maintenance eaui2ment and a compactor
for a sanitary landfill.
e.    The carrying out of the following studies:
i.    a tariff study for water supply and sewerage; and
ii.   studies for second stage development of the regional water
supply system, consisting of: (1) formulation of a master
plan for industrial water supply in the Tuzla area; (2)
updating of a master plan for the development of Krivaja
River reservoir; (3) final engineering design (including
preparation of tender documents); and (4) related field
investigations).
f.    Trainimn  of the Borrower's staff in the operation and maintenance
of the new facilities constructed under the project.
6.          The water supply improvements were designed to serve Tuzla and two
smaller neighboring towns, Lukavac and Zivinice. The transmission main and
tunnel and the distribution storage tank, considered a part of the regional
water supply system to be prepared under the project, would eventually serve
these municipalities and four others, Banovici, Lopore, Srebenik and Kalesija.
At the time of appraisal, the maximum day water demand for Tuzla and the
municipalities of Lukavac and Zivinice exceeded the existing systems
production capacity by 34 percent. Any delays in the extension of water
facilities would not only have impeded the development of the region, but
would have resulted in considerable hardship for water consumers.
7.          Tuzla's existing sewerage system served about 70 percent of the
I;.tlation while holding and septic tanks were prevalent in fringe areas of
Tuzla. Domestic and industrial sewage was being discharged into the Jala
River at a number of outfall points, creating severe pollution. The sewerage
improvements were to intercept all the existing outfalls and carry the sewage
to the site of the sewage treatment plant.
8.          Air pollution in Tuzla was caused by the burning of lignite in
local boilers to provide heating for 79 percent of the population. The
atmospheric concentration of particulates frequently exceeded acceptable
levels, causing a high incidence of respiratory diseases. In order to reduce
air pollution, the Municipality decided to gradually replace local boilers
with a central uleating system. The system was designed to circulate hot water
heated at the existing Tuzla thermal power station located about 4 kilometers
from Tuzla.
9.          Changes to the Proiect During ImDlementation.  The Loan Agreement
was amended three times after Board approval. All of the amendments included
loan cancellations and two reduced the scope of the project. The scope
reductions were significant, representing 30X of the appraised cost of the
project. The cancellations were even more significant, reducing the Loan by
81X from $30 million equivalent to $5.7;million equivalent.



10.         The Bank agreed to the first amendment in January 1984 when
KOMPRED requested that the project scope be reduced by changing the level of
treatment of the sewerage treatment plant from secondary to primary and
reducing its capacity. The changes in the plant became necessary when
KOMPRED's industrial partner in the construction of the plant decided it was
cheaper to build a separate plant and withdrew his financing'. Also, because
of the Bank's policy of reimbursing retroactive expenditures in the currency
of the expenditure without regard to the real value of that currency at the
time of reimbursement, KOMPRED was unable to withdraw from the loan account
the real value of its expenditures. KOMPRED expected to withdraw US$3.0
million from the loan in retroactive financing. Because of the devaluation of
the Dinar and the Bank's exchange rate policy, they were able to withdraw only
US$700,000. As a result, KOMPRED requested and the Bank agreed to cancel
US$10.3 million equivalent in loan proceeds.
11.         In April 1985 the Bank agreed to the second amendment.  This time
KOMPRED requested that the Project scope be reduced by eliminating the
regional water supply system components and that the Bank cancel $10.2 million
of the Loan amount. The request to reduce the project scope followed a
decision by Republic Authorities in 1984 to delay implementation of the
regional water supply system because of lack of financing. The eliminated
components consisted of the transmission main, tunnel and the Si Selo
distribution storage tank. The pump addition in the Spreca pumping station
was also eliminated because it was not needed without the transmission main.
Elimination of these works did not restrict the consumption of water from the
Spreca Polje ground water source which could still be pumped to Tuzla through
existing transmission mains. The reduced water supply component was
acceptable to the Bank because without the regional system, the works would
serve only to reinforce Tuzla's water distribution network, a benefit that
could be obtained at lower cost by other means. The Bank also agreed to add
to the project a standby heat source for the central heating system.
KOMPRED's reasons for requesting the second cancellation in addition to the
reduction in project scope were: (a) the devaluation of the Dinar from 46 to
US$1.00 at appraisal in April 1982 to Dinar 250 to US$1.00 in May 1985 made
the original project too expensive in terms of Dinars; (b) KOMPRED and the
Municipal Assembly of Tuzla were concerned with their ability to service the
Bank debt, and wished to reduce the loan to the minimum required for the
prro;eet  (c! the City Assembly had arranged for substantial local grant
financing for the central heating distribution system, thus eliminating the
need for further Bank funding other than that required for importing
equipment; and (d) because of the devaluation of the Dinar, appraisal cost
estimates in US dollars were too high and had generated a larger than needed
loan amount.
12.         In June 1986, KOMPRED requested and the Bank agreed to the third
amendment to the Loan Agreement, canceling US$800,000 previously allocated for
construction of the sewage treatment plant. The Bank loan was thus reduced to
US$5.7 million equivalent. KOMPRED's reasons for requesting this third
cancellation were that: (a) sufficient local funding had become available to
cover 100% of the cost of the sewage treatment plant; and (b) an analysis of
the final design of the sewage treatment plant had indicated that all the
plant materials and equipment were available locally, thus eliminating the
need for any foreign exchange.
The plant was built and is operating.



5-
Project Design and Organization
13.         The objectives and concept of the project were clear to all
parties involved and the project was well prepared technically with technical
assistance provided by the UNDP and Bank staff. There were no complicating
features in the project and its organization was straightforward. To insure
that implementation proceeded smoothly, KOMPRED established a working
committee for investment and development (a project implementation unit) to
implement the Bank project and the regional water supply project. The
committee was staffed by a director, three sector specialists, an accountant,
a translator and two secretaries. All people assigned to the committee were
highly qualified. The Committee functioned well up until 1985 when it was
disbanded, following KOMPRED's decision to reduce the scope of the project and
turn over responsibility for tne regional water supply system to the Republic.
14.         The scale and scope of the Project were appropriate for the
conditions existing at appraisal. Unfortunately, the financial plan did not
anticipate the downturn in the Yugoslav economy that began in 1983 and the
resulting high inflation and rapid devaluation of the Dinar that followed.
Contributions and grants which were fixed in Dinars soon lost their value and
contributors were not willing to increase their contributions to compensate.
Also, the Municipality was reluctant to approve tariff increases for KOMPRED.
It soon became clear to KOMPRED that it could not afford the project and
especially the Bank Loan on which they bore the full foreign exchange risk.
Without relief from the outside or approval from the Municipality to raise
tariffs, KOMPRED had little choice but to reduce the amount of the Bank Loan
and with it the scope of the project.
Proiect Implementation
15.         Loan-Effectiveness and Proiect Start-ur.  The Loan became
effective on August 24, 1983, six months after Board Presentation. The three
month delay in effectiveness was caused by the difficulty KOMPRED had in
obtaining the local bank guarantee the Federal Government requires before it
will give its guarantee. The delay could have been avoided if KOMPRED had
started to make arrangements for its local bank guarantee earlier in the
project preparation process. Delays resulting from problems with local bank
guarantees are a regular occurrence with first time borrowers in Yugoslavia
who are not familiar with this requirement. The Bank could help by reminding
borrowers to arrange for a local bank guarantee after the first preparation
mission.
16.         ImDlementation Schedule and Components Not Completed.  Forecast
and actual completion dates of the project components are listed in Part III
Section 4. The following components of the amended project were not completed
and have been delayed indefinitely: (a) the construction of a sewage
treatment plant; (b) the carrying out of the tariff study; and (c) the
preparation of final designs for the regional water supply system. The
components that were implemented followed closely the appraisal implementation
schedule and no formal extensions of the Loan closing date were required.
However, the closing date was extended informally from December 31, 1988 to
July 27, 1989 to permit disbursement of expenditures against signed contracts.
17.         KOMPRED failed to complete the sewage treatment plant for the same
reasons it requested the Bank to reduce the scope of the Project' by amendment-
-inability of KOMPRED to raise tariffs and find additional financing to offset
the effects of inflation. The Bank on several occasions wrote to KOMPRED



- 6 -
documenting its concern that construction of the treatment plant had not
started. Perhaps the Bank could have assisted KOMPRED in seeking alternative
sources of financing. However, under the circumstances, it is unlikely that
other sources could have been found.
18.         Of the two studies included in the project, only the regional
water supply master plan was completed. Mid-way through the project,
responsibility for the regional water supply system was assumed by the
Republic of Bosnia and Hercegovina Water Management Authority and the regional
water supply master plan study was completed under their supervision by the
Institute for Water Management in Sarajevo. They have not yet undertaken the
final design although designs were prepared for the transmission main,
transmission tunnel and distribution storage tank eliminated from the project
by the second amendment. Not preparing the final designs is understandable in
view of the fact that no implementation date has been set.
19.         The tariff study included in the project and its implementation
were covenanted in the Loan Agreement. Despite continual pressure from the
Bank, KOMPRED did not complete the study. The purpose of the study was to
design a block water tariff that would promote water conservation. KOMPRED
argued that a block tariff would not have the intended effect unless
individual meters were installed in the flats of all its customers. At
present, most of KOMPRED's customers live in large apartment complexes served
by a single meter for the whole complex. Bills for each flat are calculated
on the basis of the total consumption of the building and the number of people
residing in the building. Not only would a large investment in meters ha".e to
be made, but the plumbing in the buildings would have to be altered. There
was a difference of opinion in the Bank on the feasibility of a block tariff
under the circumstances. In the end KOMPRED settled the matter by ignoring
the Bank's requests. However, they did admit that the study would have been
of value to them in documenting to the Municipal Assembly the need to increase
tariffs to compensate for inflation (Part II, para 8).
20.         Procurement.  Procurement for the project went smoothly and caused
no delays. Most of the equipment was procured through ICB and works through
LCB. Foreign suppliers won the bulk of the awards for equipment and all the
works contracts went to Yugoslav contractors. None of the awards were
disputed.
21.         Project Costs.  The final cost of the project in equivalent US
dollars was 76X lower than the appraisal estimate (Part III, Section 5.A).
The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was about Dinars 5.1 billion
(US$64.4 million equivalent), including US$7.5 mill;on in taxes, import
duties, interest and fees during construction. The estimated foreign exchange
cost was US$30 million equivalent which represented about 46Z of the total
project cost and was the amount of the Bank loan. Thie final cost was about
Dinars 14.4 billion (US$15.3 million equivalent) as shown on Part III, Section
5.A. The main reason for the lower cost in equivalent US dollars was the
reduction in project scope. The devaluation rate of the Dinar, which exceeded
the inflation rate during the period, also influenced the cost in equivalent
US dollars. The components that were completed cost only 60% of the appraisal
estimates in terms of US dollars. In Dinars, the cost of the completed
components was almost three times the appraisal estimate. If all components
had been finished as appraised, the cost of the project in Dinars would easily
have been four times the Dinar appraisal estimate.   The largebcost
differences between appraisal estimatqs and actual costs can be traced to the
high inflation which took place during the project implementation period and



-7 -
the failure of the Bank and the Borrower to anticipate and plan for it. In
1982, the year when the financial projections were prepared, the annual
inflation rate was 20%. By 1987, the final year of project implementation,
the annual inflation rate had increased to 2,000% and the devaluation rate to
2,200%. The appraisal projection for inflation in 1987 was 13%.
22.         Disbursements.  The US$30.0 million equivalent Bank Loan was
estimated to be disbursed over a five and a half year period as indicated in
Part III, Section 3. Actual disbursements took six years and began a year
later than projected. KOMPRED received the loan at the worst possible time.
Interest rates were high (11%) and the Bank was assessing a front-end fee of
1.5%. KOMPRED was disappointed by two aspects of the loan they did not
anticipate. First, at the time the Bank's policy did not allow the use of
historical exchange rates for disbursing against local currency expenditures
made prior to loan signing, and, as a result of the rapid devaluation of the
Dinar, KOMPRED was only able to withdraw US$700,000 for retroactive
expenditures with an equivalent value of $3.0 million. The difference was
included in the first cancellation (Part I, para 10). Second, the Bank
refused to refund KOMPRED for any portion of the front-end fee or commitment
fees for the cancelled loan amounts. KOMPRED expected to collect US$3.0
million from the loan in retroactive financing.
23.         KOMPRED has taken advantage of the Bank's offer to borrowers to
convert their loans\to a variable interest rate loan.
Proiect Results
24.         Project Objectives.  The objectives of the project were only
partially achieved; however, the results are impressive in light of the
drastic reduction in project financing and expenditures. Water shortages were
reduced but still persist because the regional water supply system (not part
of the project except for preparation) has not been implemented. The project
was very successful in meeting the objectives for air quality improvement.
All the indicators for the central heating component were met (Part III,
Sections 4 and 6) and the air quality in Tuzla is now greatly improved. The
objective of reducing pollution of the Spreca River was not met; however, the
sewage interceptor constructed under the project has eliminated pollution of
the Jala River which flows through the middle of Tuzla. The institutional
objectives of the project were met in that KOMPRED gained valuable experience
in project management and financial management. The objective of obtaining
financial self-sufficiency for KOMPRED through the implementation of adequate
changes was not obtain. Failure to raise tariffs to compensate for inflation
was one reason for the failure of the financing plan and as a consequence the
reduction in project scope.
25.         Physical Results.  Components representing 30% of the appraisal
cost estimate were not completed. The regional water supply system
transmission components and the secondary stage of the sewage treatment plant
were eliminated by amendment, after agreement with the Bank. Final designs
for the regional water supply transmission components were prepared; however,
no designs were prepared for the rest of the system. In retrospect, it made
sense not to prepare the designs without a plan to implement the system, and
they also should have been eliminated by one of the amendments. KOMPRED
failed to construct the primary stage of the sewage treatment plant and to
carry out the tariff study despite continued reminders from the'Bank. The
status of all components included in the project is given in Part III, Section
4.



-8-
26.         Financial Performance.  The financial performance of KOMPRED was
not satisfactory and contributed to the failure of the project to meet all its
objectives (See KOMPRED's actual and projected financial statements for the
years 1982 through 1988 in Part III, Section 9 and a summary of KOMPRED's
sources and applications of funds statements for the same period in Part III,
Section 5.Bj. KOMPRED could have raised its tariffs to compensate for
inflation and could have asked the Bank to increase its disbursement
percentages to compensate for the loss in value of funding sources fixed in
Dinars. Instead, it came under pressure from the Municipality to keep tariffs
low and not obligate itself to high tariffs in the future by borrowing foreign
exchange to finance Dinar expenditures for the project, which lead to a
shrinking and eventually negative cash flow.
27.         Despite KOMPRED's failure to generate sufficient internal funds
for project investment, it still was able to comply with the revenue covenant
in the Loan Agreement. The covenant required KOMPRED's annual revenues to
cover the full cost of operations (depreciation excluded), the greater of full
debt service or depreciation, adequate levels of working capital, and adequate
levels of internally generated funds for subsequent year's investments.
Because it substantially reduced its investment program, KOMPRED's Water and
Sewerage Division complied with the covenant in 1983 and again in 1985, and
its Central Heating Division complied in 1985 and 1986. However, the main
reason investments were reduced was because financing was lacking. In
retrospect, an operating ratio covenant which automatically compensates for
inflation would have been a more appropriate covenant. For this project, it
would have been appropriate to have both covenants.
28.         KOMPRED's financial reporting was good.  Audits of KOMPRED's
divisional and consolidated financial statements were made by SDK, the
government's special audit group, and sent to the Bank by KOMPRED for each
year from 1982 through 1988. The audit reports for the most part were well
prepared, received on time and reported few exceptions to accepted accounting
principles. There was no provision in the Loan Agreement for a special
account or the Statement of expenditure procedure which would have required
additional auditing.
29.         ImDact of Project.  Despite falling short of its objectives, the
project did have a positive impact for the Borrower and Tuzla. Its most
significant impact was the reduction of air pollution in Tuzla resulting from
the elimination of 90 lignite burning boilers. Whereas pollution of the
Spreca River was not reduced, pollution of the Jala River which flows through
the middle of Tuzla was eliminated by the construction of the interceptor.
Although water shortages still persist, the situation would be worse without
the project. Improvements in these three areas have created a more healthy
living environment for the citizens of Tuzla.
30.         Institutionally, KOMPRED, is stronger now than before the project.
Valuable experience was gained in the implementation of the project. Also,
preparations for implementing water and sewerage system improvements were
advanced so that when Tuzla's financial situation improves and resources are
found for the unfinished wcrks, they can be implemented quickly.
Project Sustainability
31.         The water supply works implemented under the project are
functioning well and is a valuable addition to the Tuzla water system. The



- 9 -
recalculated rate of return for these works is 112% which demonstrates their
value to the system (Part III, Section 6.b). This high value results from
several factors: (a) elimination of the transmission component which had a
high cost and little benefit for the near term and no effect on benefits
measured as the amount of water sold: (b) 60% cost savings over appraisal
estimates; (c) because of the water shortage, all water produced could be sold
without expanding the distribution network; and (d) the existing network was
assumed a sunk cost2. The facilities have been maintained in good operating
condition by operators trained by the equipment supplier, so there is little
risk that they will not continue to function effectively. When the regional
water supply system is constructed and operational, it is likely that the
marginal operating cost of the larger Krivaja supply would be less than for
the Spreca Polje supply. The Spreca Polje supply could be shut down until
increased water demand requires that it be put back in service.
32.         The benefits of the sewage interceptor will only be fully met when
the sewage treatment plant is constructed. However, it will continue to
maintain the quality of the Jala River as long as new development is connected
to it. Urban planning and controls on development, although not addressed by
the project, are sufficiently developed in Tuzla to insure that this is done.
Construction of the sewage treatment plant continues to be a high priority
with the municipality, although second to the regional water supply svstem.
33.         The central heating network continues to be expanded.  City
regulations require that all new construction be connected to it and good
progress is being made in converting existing buildings to the system in areas
where the network has been extended. As an incentive to encourage new
customers to connect, KOMPRED pays 50% of the conversion cost and maintains a
rate structure that is competitive with other heating methods. The
recalculated rate of return for this component is 12% as compared to 13% at
appraisal (Part III, Section 6.B).
34.         The need now is to find sources of financing for construction of
the regional water supply system and the sewage treatment plant. As a means
of broadening the financial base for the regional water supply system, KOMPRED
has relinquished its responsibility for implementing the system to the
Republic Water Management Authority, the same agency that completed the master
plan. There is a risk that the Republic will be less successful in overcoming
the financial constraints on the project than the local beneficiaries. The
sewage treatment plant remains a local responsibility and is unlikely to be
constructed without outside incentives such as grant financing from the
Republic or pollution charges and fines that exceed the cost of treatment.
Bank Performance
35.         The Bank's performance was satisfactory in ensuring that the
project was well prepared technically and that the project was properly
managed. Its performance was less than satisfactory in preparation and
supervision of the financial aspects of the project. On the surface, the
failure of the project's financing plan was caused by the downturn in the
Yugoslav economy and the resulting high inflation and rapid devaluation of the
Dinar. The fact that the project was in financial trouble so soon after
effectiveness (the first reduction in project scope and cancellation occurred
2      If sunk costs were considered, the rate of return would be in the
normal range for a water supply project.



- 10 -
only five months after loan effectiveness) makes it appear that the Bank
should have anticipated the coming inflation and taken it into account.
Specifically, with regard to the financial preparation o, the project, the
Bank should have: (a) identified inflation and devaluation of the Dinar as a
project risk; (b) ensured that everyone involved was aware of the consequences
of assuming the foreign exchange risk on the Bank Loan; (c) ensured that
KOMPRED and the Municipality were committed to increasing tariffs to
compensate for inflation; and (d) ascertained that the grants and
contributions that made up 22% of KOMPRED's cash requirements for investments
and debt service were protected against inflation. With regard to supervision
of the project, the Bank should have: (a) assisted KOMPRED in finding
alternative sources of financing for the sewage treatment plant; and (b)
pressed harder for tariff increases and completion of the tariff study which
could have been used to demonstrate to municipal leaders the justification for
increasing tariffs.
36.         The elimination from the project of the regional water supply
system transmission components was the right decision at the time. The fact
that they were included in the project at all was another consequence of
inadequate financial planning. Economic justification of the transmission
components depended on early construction of the regional system. The
appraisal report assumed that the regional system would be constructed between
1986 and 1989 but did not identify the source of financing. Without
completion of the regional system, these components served only to reinforce
Tuzla's distribution network, a benefit achievable by less costly means.
These components should never have been included in the project without an
assured financing plan for the rest of the regional system.
37.         The Bank must also assume some responsibility for KOMPRED's
failure to implement the sewage treatment plant. The Bank was unrealistic in
assuming that Tuzla would assume 100% of the financial obligation for a sewage
treatment plant which would only benefit downstream users. In fact Tuzla did
not even contribute financially to the preparation of the sewage treatment
plant component. It was financed by a grant from the UNDP. Bank experience
has demonstrated that environmental projects will only be financed on the
local level if the local population will benefit. The sewage interceptor
benefitted the Municipality and it was implemented. The sewage treatment
plant did not, and as a result, it became a candidate for postponement at the
first sign of financial difficulty.
38.         More flexibility in the Bank's lending policies would have eased
KOMPRED's financial difficulties (Part II, para 3). Because at the time of
loan signing the Bank's disbursement policy did not take into account currency
devaluations between the date of expenditure and the date of disbursement,
KOMPRED was only reimbursed US$0.7 million in actual value for retroactive
expenditures equivalent to US$3.0 million. The additional US$2.3 million
would have been helpful in easing KOMPRED's financial problems and would have
reduced loan cancellations by the same amount. KOMPRED had the same problem
but to a lesser extent with regular disbursements. The Bank changed its
policy in 1986 and now makes provision for disbursements for local currency
expenditures that are affected by rapid and frequent devaluation; however, the
new policy is not well known among Task Managers.3 Also, KOMPRED felt that
they were treated unfairly by not being reimbursed for the front-end and
commitment fees charged for the amount cancelled. The Bank has taken a
3      OMS 3.30, Annex A issued December 1986.



- 11 -
positive step in reducing the front-end fee to zero and reducing the amount of
the commitment fee. KOMPRED would have been less likely to request the
cancellations if it had not felt the pressure of having to pay a commitment
fee of 0.75% and if the grace period had been longer.4
39.         KOMPRED has also had difficulty planning for its debt service
payments because of the Bank's billing procedures (Part II, para 6). KOMPRED
complained on several occasions of the difficulty they have in planning to
have adequate cash on hand to make debt service payments because of the Bank's
practice of billing in different currencies with changes from billing period
to billing period and the fact that the amount billed is only an estimate.
The Bank should be looking at ways to serve our borrowers needs better in the
area of Loan repayment.
Borrower Performance
40.         KOMPRED performed well in preparing the project and implementing
efficiently and in a timely manner the parts that it did complete. The
project unit within KOMPRED was fully staffed with competent professionals at
the beginning and was largely responsible for the early implementation success
of the project. In 1985, the unit was disbanded and responsibility for
finishing the project was passed on to KOMPRED's operating departments when it
became evident with the first loan cancellation that the regional water supply
system was not going to be implemented in the near future. Turning over
responsibility for the works to the operating departments of KOMPRED had
little effect on the implementation of the works.  Most of the same people
responsible for the project in the project implementation unit remained with
KOMPRED and continued working on the project within the operating units. What
did suffer was reporting to the Bank. While audit reports were submitted on
schedule, no project progress reports were submitted to the Bank after the
project unit was disbanded. However, KOMPRED did prepare data requested by
the Bank in advance of Bank missions which was incorporated into the mission's
reports.
41.         KOMPRED must also share the blame for the unsatisfactory financial
results of the project. The omissions of the Bank in the financial
preparation of the project are also theirs. When it came to obtaining the
Municipality's approval to raise tariffs, KOMPRED failed to use all the tools
at its disposal. An example is their failure to carry out the tariff study.
Project Relationship
42.         Bank relationships with KOMPRED and the municipality were good.
Bank missions were always welcome and their advice appreciated (Part II, para
3), although not always followed.
Consulting Services
43.         Consultants played a major role in the design and implementation
of the main components of the project. The local Yugo4lav consultant for the
central heating component, lacked experience and benefitted from the design
reviews by the Bank and a specialist hired by the Bank. He agreed to the
changes and in the end did an acceptable job. In general, KOMPRED used its
The grace period for loans,to Yugoslavia at the time was orly three
years. It has since been extended to five years.



- 12 -
consultants effectively but did not in all cases treat them fairly. The
foreign consultanting firm that designed the sewage treatment plant, exceeded
the scope of their contract with the UNDP in the services they provided.
Their assignment called for them to provide design technical assistance to
KOMPRED for the sewage treatment plant. In the end, they did much of the
design work for KOMPRED without full compensation from either UNDP, their
client, or from KOMPRED. Nevertheless, KOMPRED's relationship with them was
good and they benefitted greatly from their services. KOMPRED received
satisfactory performances from its three other consultants who were all local.
These consultants were responsible for the water supply component and the
sewage intereceptor.
Project Documentation and Data
44.         Original project documentation and data were satisfactory;
however, supervision reports could have included more monitoring data. The
legal agreements for the project were clear and adequate and the staff
appraisal report provided a useful framework for the Bank and Borrower during
project implementation. Preparation of the PCR was made difficult by the fact
that project monitoring indicators had not been routinely recorded in
supervision reports and the Borrower did not routinely send progress reports
to the Bank. Progress reports and Bank supervision reports should be designed
with the preparation of PCRs in mind.



- 13 -
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adeguacv and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III and the Analvsis in
Part I
1.          At the time of the Project Completion mission, the Bank had not
yet completed Parts I and III of the PCR. We have not had an opportunity to
review either and therefore we are not in a position to comment on the data in
the report or the analysis. However, we did have thorough discussions with
the project completion mission on the results of the project and provided them
with all the data they requested.
Evaluation of the Bank's Perforrance and Recommendations for Changes in Bank
Procedures
2.          Bank personnel who participated in the preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the project offered valuable advice on technical solutions,
especially during appraisal. Bank missions visited Tuzla about twice a year
during the first three years of project implementation when major construction
was in progress. Visits were less frequent thereafter. The frequencv of the
missions was about right and the missions were always welcome.
3.          The Bank's technical assistance in the end turned out to be of
greater importance to KOMPRED than its financial assistance. Out of a total
project cost of US$15.3 million, the Bank loan financed only US$5.7 million of
which US$1.5 million was for interest during construction and other fees
charged by the Bank. High inflation which caused a deterioration in KOMPRED's
finances and devaluation of the Dinar which made the Bank loan very expensive
were the main reasons KOMPRED reduced the scope of the project and canceled
US$24.3 million of the loan. However, part of the cancellation resulted from
Bank rules which prevented KOMPRED from being reimbursed for project
expenditures calculated on historical exchange rates. Retroactive financing
provided under the loan proved to be a great disappointment and little help to
KOMPRED. High inflation between the time of the expenditures and the time of
reimbursement and the fact that most of the retroactive expenditures were in
Dinars resulted in a retroactive financing disbursement of US$0.7 million for
work paid for with Dinars valued at almost US$3.0 million. Similar reductions
in disbursement value for Dinar expenditures were experienced during project
implementation as a result of the high inflation and the time required for
disbursement requests to be processed by KOMPRED as well as in the Bank.
4.          KOMPRED recommends that where expenditures are made in currencies
experiencing high inflation, disbursement amounts be based on historical
exchange rates if the borrower chooses. This should apply both for
retroactive financing and for normal financing under the loan.
5.          KOMPRED was also disappointed in the Bank's refusal to reimburse
it for an estimated US$1.0 million in commitment fees and the front-end fee it
paid on the US$24.3 million of the loan that was cancelled. It made two
written requests for reimbursement to the Bank, both of which were refused.
KOMPRED recommends that the Bank be more flexible with its lending rules for
similar situations in the future.
6.          KOMPRED continues to have difficulty in arranging its finances so
that it can meet its loan repayments. 'Too frequently, KOMPRED is faced with
making large additional payments (typically up to 15% of the original billed



- 14 -
amount) because the Bar'> does not make better estimates of the amounts due in
its provisional bills. It is also confusing for the Bank to request payment
in different currencies. KOMPRED recommends that for each loan, the Bank fix
the repayment currency. It also recommends that instead of sending
provisional bills followed by corrected bills, the Bank send only one bill and
adjust either the loan repayment period or the outstanding amount of the loan
to compensate for fluctuations in currency values.
Evaluation of the KOMPRED's Performance and Lessons Learned
7.          The project management unit established to carry out the project
functioned well and was largely responsible for the early implementation of
the major components of the project. It was only after the unit was disbanded
at the end of 1985 that project implementation slowed. The Central Heating
Department continued to implement the project after the unit was disbanded;
however, many of the records ware lost and it became difficult for KOMPRED to
meet its obligations for reporting under the loan agreement. Also, there were
too many personnel changes in the unit while it was in existence. This also
contributed to documents being lost and delays in meeting KOMPRED's
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
8.          KOMPRED was also negligent in not carrying out the tariff study
included in the project. In retrospect, this study would have helped convince
the Municipal Assembly of the need for higher tariffs necessary for KOMPRED to
maintain an adequate level of service and not fall behind in its investment
program.
9.          The main lesson learned was that good project results depend on an
adequately staffed project management unit which has the support of the
borrower and the necessary resources at its disposal to meet its obligations.



-15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                         Purpose                                     Approval         Status
Ln. 777-YU                         To provide domestic water supply,           1971             Completed 1/82
lbar Multipurpose                 irrigation, flood control and power
benefits for the promotion of
regional development.
Ln. 1066-YU                       To eliminate wator shortages and            1974              Completed 4/82
Dubrovnik Water                   pollution of coastal waters in a
and Wastewater                    of c.astal wattrs in a major 2
tourism area.
Ln. 1262-YU                        To provide domestic water supply.          1976              Completed 4/83
Morva Regional                     irrigation, flood control and power
Development                       benefits for the promotion of
regional development.
Ln. 1263-YU                        To eliminate water shortages and            1976             Completed 4/83
Sarajovo Water &                   improve quolity of the Bosna River.
Wastewater Project
Ln. 1264-YU                       To prevent air polluticn by                 1976              Completed 3/83
Sarajevo Air                      installation of a natural ses
Pollution Control                 distribution network for home
heating and industrial use.
Ln. 1360 Metohija                 To provide domestic water supply,           1976              Comploted 8/85
Multipurpose                       irrigation. flood control and power
benefits for the promotion of
regional dovelopment.
Ln. 1371-YU                        To provide domestic water supply,           1976             Completed 1/84
Macedonia                          irrigation, flood control and power
Multipurpose                       benefits for the promotion of
regional developmnt.
Ln. 20S5-YU Kosovo                 To eliminate water shortages and            1981             Completed on
Water Supply                       expand water service coverage in                             schedule and
a developing region.                                         under budget
11/86
Ln. 3069-YU Istria                 To eliminate water shortages and            1989             Implementation
Water Supply and                   pollution of coastal waters in a                             in progress
Sewerage                           major tourism area,                                          and on schedule
La. 3070-YU                        To eliminate water shortages and            1989             Implementation
Slovene Coast                      pollution of coastal waters in a                             in progress
Sewerage                           major tourism area,                                          and on schedule



- 16 -
2.  r1o21ect Timetable
Date        Date        Date
Item                          Planned     Revised      Actual
- Identification                --                     06/80
- Preparation                 1980-82        --        03/81
- Appraisal Mission - 1         --           --        05/81
- Appraisal Mission - 2         --           --        08/82
- Appraisal Mission - 3         --           --        11/82
- Loan Negotiations             --           --        11/22/82
- Board Apptzval                --           --        01/25/83
- Loan Signature                 -     -     -         02/10/83
- Loan Effectiveness          06/30/83       --        08/24/83
- First Amendment                -           --        01/10/84
- Second Amendment              --           --        04/15/85
- Third Amendment               --           -         06/07/86
- Project Completion          12/31/87       --        10/30/89
- Loan Closing                12/31/88    06/30/89    07/27/89
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
USS millions
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Appraisal Estimate                3.4   11.6   18.4   23.7   27.6   30.0
Revised Estimate (July 1986)       -     3.2    4.6    5.2    5.3    5.7
Actual                             -     3.2    4.6    5.1    5.3    5.3    5.7
Actual as X of Estimate            -      27     25     22      19     18    19
Date of Final Disbursement       Jul3: 27, 1989



- 17 -
4. Project Implementation
Planned            Actual             Delays
Project Components             Completion          Completion        Month
Sprecko Polje Water            6/85                6/85                 0
Treatment Plant
Zivinici Pump Addition         Cancelled
Water Transmission Pipe        Cancelled
and Tunnel
Water Storage Tank             Cancelled
Sewerage Interceptor           06/84               03/85                9
Sewerage Treatment             03/86               Delayed              NA
Indefinitely
Central Heating                09/83               09/83                0
Primary Main
Central Heating Secondary      2/87                12/90                36
Mains (23 km)
Central Heating                12/87               12/90                36
Substations (90)
Central Heating                09/83               09/83                0
Pumping Plant
Central Heating                Amendment           12/89                0
Standby Heat Source            Addition
Equipment Purchase             12/86               06/87                6
Tariff Study                   12/84               Delayed             NA
Indefinitely
Regional Water Study           09/85               12/88               39
Final designs for              12/87               Delayed             NA
Stage II Regional                                  Indefinitely
Water System



- 18 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ thousand equivalent except as noted)
Appraisal Estimate
Component                 Local      Foreign        Total             Actual
Water Supply              6,612        5,171       11,784                 876
Sewerage                  8,788        8,497       17,285                 796
Central Heating          13,513        9,505       23,018             11,255
Solid Waste                   99         278          377                 264
Project Management
& Construction
Supervision            1,046          527        1,573                503
TA & Training             2,783        1,771        4,553                 113
Total                 32,841       25,750       58,591             13,567
.Interest & Fees               -        5,300        5,300              1,050
Front-end Fee                            500          500                443
Total Financing
(US$ thousand)        32,841       31,550       64,391             15,300
Total Financing
(Dinars million)       2,697        2,361        5,058             25,000



- 19 -
B. Proiect Financing _/
Planned    Actual          Planned    Actual
(US$ millions)           (Dinars millions)
Sources
IBRD Loan h/                        30.0       5.3            2,325      2,385
Internal cash r,/                  46.6        2.6            3,609   (5,910)
Grants & Contributions              27.7       3.1            2,144      1,365
Local Bank Loans & Advances         21.5      25.1            1,664    35,642
Total                           125.0      35.9            9,742    33,483
Ax)lications
Project & Other Investments         62.5      19.0            4,924      4,983
Regional Water Supply System        35.9        -             2,693
Capitalized Interest                 5.1       2.5              423      1,824
Debt Service                        19.0       2.3            1,444      1,927
Working Capital                      3.4      12.1              258    24,749
Total                          125.9       35.9            9,742    33,483
J/    Sources of funds for Project, debt service and other investments for the
period 1982 through 1988.
J/    "Actual" does not include $0.4 million (Din 5,289 million) disbursed in
1989 for purchase of pumps for the Central Heating System.
S/    "Actual" internal cash generation was a positive $5.6 million (Din 1,792
million) from 1982-1988 and a negative $3.0 million (Din 7,702 million)
in 1988.



- 20 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated at       Estimated at
Indicator                Estimate a/        ComDletion b/      Full Development
Additional water          11,200             11,200               13,000
production capacity,
m3/day
Additional water         100,000                  0                     0
transmission main
capacity, m3/day
Additional treated         4,000                  0                     0
water storage
capacity, m3
Additional sewage         74,900                  0                     0
treatment capacity,
m3/day
Additional Sewage        104,000            104,000              104,000
Interceptor Capacity,
m3/day
Additional building      295,500            783,300            1,328,100
floor area heated, m2
Local Boilers                 50                 63                    93
Eliminated, Nr
Additional population    22,500              22,500               26,000
served water, Nr
Additional population    60,400                   0                     0
served by a sewage
treatment plant, Nr
Additional population    60,400              60,400               128,000
served with sewage
interceptor, Nr
Additional population    19,700              40,000                88,500
served with central
heating, Nr
j/ December 31, 1987
k/ December 31, 1988



- 21 -
B. Economic Indicators
Rate of Return             Average Incremental Cost_
Project
Comionent         Appraisal       Comllletion    AnDraLsal       Comnletion
Water Supply        11U            112X          SO.71/m:       SO.71/m3
Sewerage             -              -            SO.16/X3         NA
Central Seating     13X            12Z           SO.52/m2/month    SO.35/m2/month
Assumptions                         Apgraisal                    Completion
Project Life .
Water Component               40 Years                     14 Years
Sewerage and Central
Heating Components            40 Years                     40 Years
Full Development -
Water Component               1984                         1985
Sewerage Component            1986                         Partially
completed
Central Heating Component     1987                         1990
Average Tariffs -
Water Component               Din2O/m3                     Din2O/m3
Sewerage Component            Dinl5/m3                     Dinl5/m3
Central Heating Component     Din24/m2/month               Din24/m2/month
Prices                              November 1982                November 1982
Exchange Rate                       $1 - Din64.3                 $1 - Din64.3
Co=ments
The rate of return (IRR) for the central heating component is about the
same as forecast without taking as a benefit "self-imposed taxes" or the "sale
of old plant" assumed during appraisal. The loss of these benefits was
compensated for by lower construction costs and a higher connection rate to
the new system than forecast at appraisal. The lower construction cost is the
reason for the long run average incremental cost (AIC) being lower than the
appraisal forecast.
The water component IRR is much higher than appraisal for several
reasons: (a) water sales were not effected by the elimination of the
transmission component which was to be built primarily for the regional water
supply project; (b) the capital cost of the Spreca Polje interim water works
was 60Z lower than the appraisal estimate; (c) no network expansion was
required; and (d) the existing network was assumed a sunk cost. The long run
AIC for water remains unchanged becaqse its calculation is based mostly on the
cost of the regional water supply system.



- 22 -
C. Studies
Purpose as Defined
Descriotion               at Anorassal                       Status             ImPact of Study
Tariff study              Implement a block water tariff   Not completed    None
structure based on quantity
consumed to promote
conservation. Tariffs in
effect at appraisal and still
in effect are independent of
volume consumed.
Feasibility study and    The water system improvements    Study completed The study provides the basis for
final designs of the      included in the project were        but  final       financing the second stage of
Second Stage              considered only the first stage  designs only         Tuzla Region water supply system.
Development of the        of a regional system.               partially        At the present time,
Tu2sl Region water        Production capacity included in  completed            implementation of the second
supply system             the project was sufficient to                        stage is not financial feasible
meet only the short term demand                      even though water shortages are
of the service area only until                       severe.
1990 when the regional system
would be completed.
Comments
With regards to the tariff study, KOMPRED did not carry it out because
they did not believe it was feasible to implement a block tariff. The belief
was based on the existing metering arrangement which did not allow the
metering of each account. Most of KOMPRED's customers live in large apartment
buildings served by a single meter. KOMPRED argued against the study on the
grounds that it would be impossible to install meters for each apartment and
that a consumption-based block tariff would not be effective without
individual account metering. KOMPRED did not disagree with the objectives of
the study or argue against it during negotiations.



- 23 -
7. Status of Covenants
Agreoment &
Soction          Description                           Compliance Deadlino  Status
L.A. 3.02.(a)   KCMFRED to employ engineering          Effectiveness         Most consultants hirod prior to
consultant for final design,                                effectivoness.  Last consultants
construction supervision for                                hired on 10/84, 13 months after
preparation of the next stage of                            effectiveness.
water supply development.
L.A. 3.02.(b)  KYHRED to retain Zavod for                                    Complied.
construction supervision.
L.A. 3.04.Ce)   X3MFRED to furnish the Bank with       06/30/89              Prepared Part 11 of the Bank's
a project completion Report with                            report in lieu of a project
in six months of the loan closing                           completion report.
date.
L.A. 4.03.       KOPRED to maintain satisfactory                             Complied.
insurance.
L.A. 5.02.(a)   K2HPRED to have its accounts           By 06/30 annually     Complied. Audits carried out and
(b)              audited annually by the Social                              reports received for 1983-1988
Accounting Service and provide                              but not always on time.
the Bank the Service's report.
(The L.A. made no provision for a
Special Account or the use of
Statements of Expenditure or the
auditing of same.)
L.A. 5.04. SMRED to ceoonce a tariff                   01/05/85              Did not comply. KOMPRED did not
study by March 31. 1984. and put                            want to chanpe its tariff
into effect the recomusndation by                           structure and therefore lacked
January 5. 1985.                                            interest in carrying out the
study.
L.A. 5.05.(a)   KOMPRED to produce funds from                                Complied based on reduced
tariffs and charges sufficient to                           investment plan.
cover operating expenses. debt
service or depreciation,
adequate, working capital, and
its investments.
L.A. 5.05.(b)   KOMPRED to submit a three-year                               Limited compliance. First and
financial plan to Bank by October                           last formal report submitted in
1.                                                          October 1983 for the years 1984,
85 and 86. For following years in
lieu of a formal report. KOMPRED
prepared reports for Bank
missions.
L.A. 5.06.       KMPRED to refrain from incurring                            Complied.
any debt other than for the
project.
L.A. 5.07.       KMPRED to ensure that non-                                  Complied.
project BOALS do not adversely
affect the financial position of
the project BOALS.



- 24 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                    Field           Office            Total
Preparation                       13.0            41.3             54.7
Appraisal through                   -             84.5             84.5
Board Approval
Board Approval                                     1.2              1.2
through Effectiveness
Supervision                        7.4            15.5             22.9
20.4           142.5            162.9
B. Missions
Staff               Performance
Month/          No. of         weeks         .    Status by
Mission             Year            Persons'       in Field            Activity2
Identification        6/80           2(EC, E)       8.4
Preparation          10/80           3(E, E)        1.2
Preparation           2/81           2(E, FA)       2.2
Preparation           6/81           1(E            0.8
Preparation           9/81           2(E, FA)       2.0
Preparation           1/82           1(FA)          1.6
Appraisal           3-4/82           2(E, FA)       4.0
Post Appraisal        9/82           2(E, FA)       0.8
Post Appraisal       11/82           1(E)           0.4
G  P  M  F
Supervision           3/83           2(E, FA)       1.2                1  2  1  1
Supervision           9/83           2(E, FA)       1.2                2  2  1  3
Supervision          12/83           1(E)           0.4                2  2  1  3
Supervision           3/84           1(E)           0.6                2  2  1  2
Supervision          10/84           2(E, FA)       1.6                2  2  1  2
Supervision           5/85           2(E, FA)       1.2                2  2  1  2
Supervision          11/85           2(E, FA)       0.8                2  2  1  2
Supervision           2/88           1(E)           0.4                2  1  2  2
PCR                   5/90           2(E, FA)       0.8
E - Engineer; FA - Financial Analyst; EC - Economist
2 G - General Status; P - Procurement; H - Management; F - Financial



- 25 -
9. Financial Statements and Data of the Borrower
A. KOMPRED Central Heating Department - Balance Sheet
B. KOMPRED Central Heating Department - Income statement
C. KOMPRED Heating Department - Sources and Application of
Funds
D. KOMPRED Water and Sewerage Department - Balance Sheet
E. KOMPRED Water and Sewerage Department - Income Statement
F. KOMPRED Water and Sewerage Department - Sources and Application
of Funds
G. KOMPRED Saliant Financial Data



A.  KOMPRED  Centra  l Heating Department- Balanice Shieet
I                  I   APP*AI   ACIAL I   MP~~~.   AC!M  I   WPRL   ACI'AL I ~ WP,A&    ACT-AL I   APP'A    ACTIt  I   NP'PAL   ACT-At  I   WP'AL   ACI'ALI
IrSCk  YEM  ENuhIS F[CNMR 31st                  I    1992      1902  I    5993       1993  I    1994      1994  I    1995       1995  5    1906        1996  I    1997       1997  I    1990        1999  I
I FIXED ASSETS - OP'ERATING                      I   250.2    350.6  I 1,510.2    446.9  1I509.7    519.6  1I ,1n9.0   ,225.3  12,109.7   2,053.0  I 2,399.7   4,991.5  I 2,762.3  131,599.1  I
I RESERVE FUR KUEPEA!IUN                         I    50.1    17.9  I    99.8    124.2  5   157.2    111.3  I   206.6    238.2  1   294.6             361.1  5   395.9   1,106.0  5   510.5   3,5270.3  5
1                                                     ---   --- I    I         ----------I--------I--------I                             --------I  -- -I------ -------  I
I #U  (PWFiATITN  ASSETS                         I   213. 1    212.?  11,420.4    322.6  I 1,352.5    342.3  11,592.2    907.   11,815.1   1,696.7  I 5,93.9   3,0B91.5                2,251.9  53,0161.0  1
I FINED ASSIS (Iii OF USE                        I               0.0  I               26.9  I              22.0  I              41)4.71I              636.2  I             1,262.6  1               661.9  I
S WWR-IM-PROINISS                                I   490.9    2982.5  I      0.0    544.9  I   316.9    579.7  I   310.9    311.4  I   28.0           450.9  I   312.4       269. 1 I      0.0      19.5  I
I t[T FIRED ASSETS                               I   69.')   555.2  I 1,420.4    894.4  I 1,669.4    944.0  I1l,93.1  1,763.?  I 2,095.1   2,113.8  I 2,306.2   5,412.9      2,2751.9  11,521.2  I
I---------                                             ------- - I                          I                     I-------..-- .-------          ------i---I           --I------------1
I IWJs1SUHis                                     I     0.5      15.3  I      0.5      19.6  I      0.5     23.0  I      0.5      35.9  I      0.5       41.0  I     0.5      592.0  5       0.5     589.2  I
IOTItU  ASSE IS                                  I    10.3             I     2.5            I    67.6             I   201.5            I   202.6              I   211.0              I   240.1              I
I                                                I                     I                    I                     I                     I                     I                      I                      I
ICS3AFNT ASSEisz                                            I                     I                    I                               I                      I                      I                      I
I -- - - -- - -                                             I                     I                    I                               I                      I                      I                      I
I CA9I                                           I      7.5     00.5  I      0.3      29.0  I      2.5     69.6  I    50.0       61.0  I    10.0       61.2  1    20.0        21.5  I    20.0       3134.71I
1I 9ERi-!(flnDEPOSITS/MINS        ~              I                     I                    I                     I                    I                      I                      I                      I
I ACCaMIs NICEIV.  0IlER CURR.ASS[T              I    25.3      14.5  I    50.7    109.4  I    83.5    375.7  I   101.9    199.3  I   537.9           476.1  I   167.5   2,9019.6  I1186.5  23,')12.0  I
IINVENTORIES                                     I      9.0      5.5  I    13.0        1.9  I    20.2      12.6  5    24.4       51.2  I    30.7       61.4  I    39.5       105.4  I    49.1   2, 210.6  I
IIIIFAt CIIPRERI ASSETS                          1    41.4    1138.5  I    12.9    546.3  I   506.2    451.9  I   542.2    311.5  I   570.6           560.1 I 1 226.6   3,022.5  I   255.6_ 25,675.3  I
-----------I--------                                                      --------I-----------I----                         ----I----           --- I---------- I---------      1I
I TOIAL. ASSEfS                                  I   741.2    619.0  I 1,495. 5,63  11,943. 15,425.1  I 2,7253.3  2,116.5  5 2,476.9   3,381.5  I 2,744.3   9,017.3  I 2,156.0  37,135.71 I0
IEgJIITI&LIABILITIES                            I                     I                    I                                          IIII
(QI                                             I                                          I                                                      I                                 II
I TfIliESS Fin4                                  I  575.0    589.4  1   790.1    661.5  51,016 3    724.9  55,255.2  1,044.2  11,433.0   1,680.1  I 1,622.2   4,976.2  11,676.4  13,24M.f  I 
1otEnwV FgjD                                    I     0.0       0.4  I      0.0       0.4  I      0.0      0.9  I      0.0       0.4  I      0.0       0.4  I       0.0       0.4  I      0.0        0.4  I
STAFF WIEFAAE FWI                               I     0.0       4.7  I      0.0       6.0  I      0.0      6.1  I      0.0      14.0  I      0.0       11.5  I     0.0       45.1  I      0.0      502.2  I
I                                                     ---   --- I--- I        ----- -- -.I ------ I--------                       I---------- I------- I----------I
I TOTAL EQUITY                                   I   515.0    594.5  I   790.1    667.9  11,016.3    735.9  55,255.2  1,059.4  11,433.8   1,706.0  I 5,622.2   4,921.7  11,676.4  13,46?.6  I
I-------I-----                                                     - ---I -----I-----  -----                                                                     - -----I------------------II
It11lEIlIIfa LIAOILIIIESt                                  I                    I                                                     IIII
"I- - - - -- - - - - -                            I                     IIII                                                                                                          II
IE15IISSWU OE5                                          4.0            I     3.0            5      2.8            5     5.9            I     0.8              I     0.0              I     0.0              I
In1A                                            I     0.0       0.0  I   453.9    336.0  I   642.5    591.6  I1741.1    115.5  I1779.4               929.9  I   0224.715,469.6  1   902.?  17,794.6  1
I LUCAS  NwS                                     I    51.5       5.6  I   111.0       19.1  I   120.1      56.2  I   114.3       13.1  I   501.9        50.3  I   500.7        6.0  I    92.5         6.0  1
I OIIFR t0Illi-IMM LIADIt IlEFS                  I     0.0       0.0  I                0.0  I               0.0  I               10.2  I                50.2  I               10.2  I             1,5098.9  I
I  W9EAl YEN-EtIlMEVALUATION                     I                     I                    I                     I                    I                      I                      II
I                                                I         -----   --I----- ---    I                 I - --     - ----I----II -                     -5I---------
I IDAS. LoI-TERhl tiADiILIIs                    I    56.3       5.6  I   529.4    354.1  I   765.4    591.9  5  951.2    799.9  I   999.5            949.4  I   925.4,  _5,495.9  I   994.7  59,309.5  I
ICtJSENI LIABILITIES:                            II                                                               I
I----------DET                                                         II                                         III
I (SIREN  IIAltSNIIIEs    OBTR                   I     0.0       5.0  I      1.0       1.3  I     6.5       1.9  I    94.2      95.9  I   500.6       366.7  I   501.4   1,500.6  I   114.1           0.0  I
I 5I1T-1EHI tuAN                                 I     0.0       0.0  I      0.0      0.4  I      0.0      10.4  I      0.0      0.4  I      0.0        0.4  I      0.0        0.4  I      0.0        0.4  I
I ACC.PAYAIIE & 0I1ER CIESI.t IADS.              I    74.1      77.9  I   109.3      36.6  I    55.9       93.8  I    46.1    162.1  I    54.3        459.0  I    09.3   1,108.0  I    70.8   4,9&3.2  I
I 913RT-IERN AIIV.-SElF IMP, IAI                 I    35.?             I    67.0
I TOTAL CItRENI lIABILITIES                      I   109.9      78.9  I   576.3      38.3  I    62.0       96.5  I   540.9    759.3  I   554.9        0276.1  I   196.7   2,609.9    1184.9  _4,96,3.6  I
I TOTAL LIADIIIlits                              I   166.2      84.5  I1705.1    392.   5   921.4    693.9  I   999.1  1,051.1  55,043.0   5,675.5  11,122.1   4,09.6  11,019.6  24,273.1  1
I JUIAL EQIUITY I, tIADILISIES                   I   741.2    679.0  51,495.9  1,060.3  55,043.7  5,4253.1  I 2,2753.3  2,116.5  5 2,416.9   3,381.5  I 2,144.3   9,017.3  I 2,756.0  31, 735.1 7



B.  KOHPRED  Central Heating Department - Income Statement
::: :: s::::: s:s  s:s:t::  i:s::::: ::::: s:::::::::::,.:.:,:t:        23:,12.ttstaSuuhSIu,ahS,I.s1228asat::: t::  :3:2:s:::::::::s:   : s2::s:2        z:::::  ::: :::  :::::::::
I                                             I  NPAL   ACIAl I  AP'AL   ACTAL I  AR-AL   ACT-Al I  AIPP'A     ACITAl I  APP AI  ACTPAL  I  A-AL   ACT-AL  I  APPAl   ACIAL  I
I FIS     ARM ES itOIN  ECIUa  ll5t           1    1992     192    I 13         199   I    994      994  1    1s         99   I    9596       1q6  1    157        1597  1    199        199  1
I REWIRES                                     I                   I                   I                   I                    I                    I                    I                     I
I Ifl(STIC HEAT                               I   46.1            1   109.7           1  200.5            1  261.2             1  346.9             1  435.0             1  495.6              I
I Att OTIHER 1E411N;                          I   35.3            1   65.3            1   101.1           I   126.4            1   157.0            1  184.2             1  I.4               I
I nIStELLtEIA S IINTaEI   NaINT.)             I    14.6           1   23.1            1   27.2            1   38.4             1   42.3             1   45.0             1   45.0              1
1                                              I       -----        I    -                                                       I ------- ---I -                       II
I TOITAL NEIE                                 I   Y6.6    95.5  1   198.1    123.3  1  329.1   206.0  I  426.0   471.2  1  546.2   1,057.9  1  664.2   2,500.2  1  740.0  6,790.3  1
5 33s2gs22 |                                I    8       $ 3325323  3t 315313    3333  s 3333333 333332  9s :tS2 1::::: s:3z:: s  9 32ss:3ss:::z:::  9 :3:::.: 2x2e:n tn: z
IOPERATINi COSIS                              I                   I                   I                    I                   I                    I                     I                    I
I -------                                    I                                                            I II                                     I                     I                    I
I SALAIES                                     I    15.6     19.9       22.6     21.  1   26.9       34.7  5   30.3      51.4  5   34.7       117.2  1   41.5      230.2  I   49.0    703.0  I
PURCOMSED HEAT                               I                   I   16.2            I   49.9            1   59.5             I   90.1             I   127.4            I  160.6              I 
I I6UPt1ATI1                                  I    7.0       7.6  1    0.7       9.7  1    10.2      6.5  I   11.0       5.6  1    11.6        3.6  1    13.1      11.0  I    14.9       47.1  1
I ENER6Y                                      I    4.7    44.3  1    5.9    57.0  1    6.0    58.9  I    7.3    30.5  1    7.7                42.1  1    8.7      120.5  I    9.0    39.2  1
I ILAI.S., COAL, rAINT. I CONTROL SERVICES    I   38.0      15.5  1   50.4    14.4  1   64.0        74.8  1   73.5   311.2  1   84.9         67.9  1   102.3   1,392.2  1  122.5   4,384.6  1
I COIRITUTIONS, A^IJNISTRATION S TAIES        I    5.9       6.0  I    9.1       7.1  1    13.4    12.9  1   16.2    19.3  1   21.4           41.4  1   26.3       96.7  1   31.1      312.7  1
I OIHE0                                       I    3.4       2.3  1    16.1      1.0  1    14.1      1.1  1   36.6       6.7  I   31.4        14.3  1   46.2      161.6  1   29.4   4,602.7 I
I PMIISIUN BAD OIS                            I    4.4            1    6.5            1    11.6           I    12.0            I   22.2             1   25.5             1   30.4              I
_I                                            I            -  ---  I     -- ---    I    ---- _   I  -            - -    _  I   _         _                       -     -  -    ---- 
I TOTA WERATIIN COSTS                         I   79.2    94.6  1   135.4    109.9  1   199.5   198.9  1  246.4    430.7  I  310.0           918.4  1   S39.0   2,013.0  1  447.6  10,431.1  1
I                                                    _-    _ _ - ---_ I                    _-----  I    I - - -     ----     I -                            _                             I 
I ItCOE KFKE  KPECIATII NO0 INTEREST          1    17.4      0.9  1   62.7      13.4  1  139.3    19.2  1   179.6    40.5  I  236.2    139.4  1  273.2            487.2  1  292.4  13,6508.1 I
I DEPRECIATION                                1    8.3      15.6  1   39.7    21.0  1   67.9        16.9  1    75.0     31.5  1   80.0        67.6  1   101.3    206.4  1  114.6    319.0  I
I                                             I 1 ------- -          - ----                                  ----__ --- -------                                    - -   -- --- -- ------      I
I INCIII  EfKIE INIERKST                      I    9.1    114.71 1   23.0    17.61 I   71.4          2.3  1   104.6       9.0  I  148.2       71.9  1  1171.9     20.8  1  17J.8  14,029.81 1
I IIITERESI                                   I    0.2       0.1  1    0.2       0.0  I    0.2       0.9  1    15.0       1.1  I  118.9       71.8  1  123.7    302.7  1   123.6    632.4  1
1                                             1   --- - -          -----   --I----  ---- ----I ---I------ -                                --- - ---------I
I NEI INCIIE                                  I    9.9   I14.89 I   22.0        17.61 1   71.2       1.5  I   99.6        7.9  1   29.3       (0.01 1   48.2      121.91 1   54.2  14,62.21 I
I ,h.:.:,::3                                  I sameman :1331:3  I annexes smz::::  I assss a:::,:,  I :.:::,:  ...::::  9 .....:: x::::::   Z: ....... :2:::::  I: ::           ....: ..I.,,.
I   ALlI[AIED 10: ESINESS FiE                 I            114.81 1              11.61 1                  1               2.9 I                     1       ,     126.91 1          14,662.21 1
I                  RESERYE fIN                I                   I                   I              1.5                3.2  1                     I               5.09 I 
I                  STAFF 1ErFtINf             I                   I                   I                    I              1.98                      I                    I                     I
3t      : t Z 2 S a:22929222822taSO SS222$2:82992 3 :l *:" ::t 22229 tax Ea                       Itsgl Stang a a   *:::: Zs:  as=g a  ax_   :-a: a *a    a a aza::_::::::zza=:z:a: : :::: ::



C. KOMPRED Central Heating Department - Sources and Applications of Funds
lijinrs ,ill,in
I  IWAL  AC)MLI   W ALt  tCI'A  I  AP?-t  ACT-A  I  OPP-A   ACT-A  I   WMra    1Clt I  Wilt   MCI-At I   Wl                         tA 
IIfsclt TMMEING DEEMBER314t           1        I"?9   1992  I   1993    193  I   11964    1969  I   Om3               m   I    1986    1994i I   199        991  I    I"1      1913  I
* IRluusIIS                  I~                   15.0    6.71 1   32.1    40.51 I   14.1    15.1 I    120.1    26.3  I   1691.4   115.2  I  199.2   311.5  I  203.9 3,711.11 I
IA li  KPEPCIATIRI                          I    9.3    15.4  I   39.1    21.6  I   47.9    41.9  I   15.0    I31.  I   *.O             41.4  1  101.3  Al6. 4  I  114.4   319.0  1
I      119001  OF FI111 AN1S                 I    0.0       3.0  I    0.0      0.2  I    0.0       0.2  I    0.0       0.3  I    6.0    15.5  I    0.0        0.0  I    0.0   39.1 II
I lISSs VAlES ON I10f                        I    15.91    (4.0 I   19.11   11.11 I  113.91   117.11 I  116.21   419.31 I   121.41   143.41 1  124.31   196.11 I   131.1  1312.11 I
I            I-----------I-.--------.l-.-.-----..-I                         ----.---l              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- -----    -_I 
I 116IIAt    IlI   Rig                      i   17.4       3.9  I   42.1    13.4  I  139.3    19.4    I 11.6    40.6  I  236.2   214.9  I  273.2   491.2  I  2924 13,*011.1) I
I9UI-1tMlW D.-utf IMP.IA                    I   33.2            I   31.1           1                   I                   I                  I                   I 
-o-i    INS                                                                                       II                                                          
I      - ll)                                 I    0.0       0.0  I  393.1   334.0  I  194.2    10.4  I  150.5   29.6.   I   15.?   411.3  I   35.3    27.0  I   23.2   644.0  I
I      -1IICM13S                             I   51.3      4.4 1    60.3    13.1 1    13.4         0.01I              0.01I               0.01I               0.01I               0.01I
I  -KVAIIUTIOI ASDK  FE M               1F              0.0  I            0.0  I            235.0                     I                   I         2,1.               15,61 011.
------ --I         --  ---  I         --   -I-- --I       .---.-I-. ---- -                             
I 10At111416-111411 O6                     1   31.5      4.4  I  453.4   349.8  I  207.4   245.4  1  ISO.)   286.6  1   75.?   411.3  1   35.6  2,137.0    123.2 16,325.0  I
IEgli If -CIIV OF JliI                       I                  I                   I                                      III
I [11111 - mainiiii  FIND                    I   30.0           I   60.0            I   110.0           I   00.5           I  04.3           I   95.2            I                   I
I (WIil - t61UE IAI                          I  254.2            I  132.3      5.3  I   45.0    25.5  I   45.0    33.4  I   45.0               I   45.6       4.0  I                   I
I 93-10116 Mill1                             I  336.2       0.0  I  192.3      5.3  I  135.0    25.5  I  145.5    3e.4  I   149.3         0.0  I  140.2       4.0  I    0.0       0.0  I
I----- - ----------I------I------I------I--------I
I SALE      ASETNES                          I                  I                   I                   I    4.0            I                  I                   I                   I
I                                            I                  I                   I                   I                  I                   I                   I                   I
I 10116 SUMS (V 1Um                          I  440.3    10.5  I  1"0.2   548.1  I  501.9    290.5  I  491.4   364.0  I  461.2   432.2  I  49.2  2,629.2  I   315.6 3,313.9  I                                    '
I  I                 I                   I                  I                   I                   I                   I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....IO
I WfICA1I0I 1! FLUIfs.                       I                  I                   I                   I                   I                  II 
It IOtALiT                                   I                  I                   I                   I                  I                   I                   II
I------                                      I                  I                   I                   I                   I                  I                   II
I    -  iGIcT                               I  355.4      0.0  I  636.1       0.0  I  29.4        0.0  I  215.4      0.0  I  224.2       0.0  3  253.5       0.0  I    0.0       0.0  I
I   011(1                                 I  125.5      0.0  I  114.3       0.0  I    0.0       0.0  I    0.0      0.0  I    0.0       0.0  I    0.0       0.0  I    0.0       0.0  I
I 101*1 FINED *54115                         I  490.9   249.7  1  150.4   266.3  I  29.4    36.1  I  215.4   596.4  I  224.2   W515.   I  253.5   Il..4  I    0.0   150.9  
I---------- - ------I-----I------------I----------
Il M          EI                             I                   I                  I                   I                   I                  I                   I                   I
---------                              I                  I                   I                   I                  I                   I                   I                   I
I  9031-IEIn AI.-UiF[Or. TII                 I                  I                   I   41.0            I                  I                   I                   I                   I
INWIRhllillIN                               I                  I                   I                   I                  I                   I                   I                   I
I                               ~          ~        ~         ~         ~~~~I  I  I         I         ~    ~~I                      I                   I                   I
I    EIISIIIGKKIT                            I                  I                   I    1.0            I    10I    1.0                        I    1.6            I    0.9            I
I     IAN                                    I             0.0  I              0.0  I              0.0  I             0.0  I   91.4    92. 1I   93.2   363.9  I   99.4  1,496.3  I
I    t4[lt(Om                                I              1.01I              1.01I               1.31I    5.1        1.91I    5.3       3.1 1      4.4      2.1 1      1.2      4.3 1
I             I------I---------l---------..----I-~~~~~~                                                   ~~~~~           ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I --------I-----------I ------ ----I
I  9-101*1 AftIIl*1113                     I    0.0       1.0  I    0.0  I..:0          1.*      1.3  I    6.1 . 19           9.       9.         0.    3.1 I1. ---  0-0---
- --- - ------ ---.                                                                            ~-                      -------              ----
INIENES!                                                                        I                                                                               
I    1lIS1It1i1 Ii   0.2                                        I    0.2            I     0.2           I    0.1           1    0.1            I    0.1            I                   I
I    INSI                                                                 I                             I                  1 104.4             110o.0'I 1110.3                         I
I    tmk low                    ~~~I                 I                   I                  I114.9              1  14.2               13.4             1  12.1            I
I                                            I---I-. -                         _ -.. .I -    _-----.-----------I          I----    ---  I------              -- I---- II
I  SLI-10ol6 INIESESI                        I    0.2      0.1  I    0.2       0.0  I    0.2       S.. I   15.0       1.1  I  119.9    11.6  I  123.?   302.1  I  123.6   632.4  I
I       --------  -                         I                  I--- - ------- --- I----.---- I                -   ----I     ----    I              --     ----I ----   --I
I 10116 KII S110I1E                          I    0.2       1.1  1    0.2      1.0  I   48.2       2.1  I   21.1      3 .0  I   W131   1 16.4  I  224.3   m69.4  I  231.0  2,133.0  I
-----------                                         ---- ----   --- ----I  *-- - I                       --   ----I        --  ----I                    --------------- 
lOllIla                                               I                  I                   I                   I                  I                   I                             I
I                                ~         ~        ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~~I  I  I  I  I  I  I 
I I_W_A41IKl%C 1ASE  -   1IN CWPIIA       I  40.61    29.1  I    (42.2    13.1  I   95.3   254.4  I   45.2  V?09.71 I   28.9   153.1 1 I    3.  I,912.0  I   41.5 19,748. 
I 1I1MASEII4CPASI - JOSIIN1S                 I    0.0    15.3  I    9.21    4.3  1   45.5         4.2  I  39.9    I2.0  I    14.91    1.2  I    3.4,   535.0  I   31.1         1.2  
I HISCEIINaI(If                              I   10.21  1285.3 I    0.0    11.9  I    0.0    1.01 I    0.0   38.71 I    0.0   168.61 I    0.0   158.6  I    0.0 Il, 1s'.s I
I 10TA WPilCATION Or "M16                   1  440.3    10.5  I  140.2   358. 1I  501.9   2905  I  481.6   366.4  I  461.2   637.2  1  499.2  2,678.2  I  315.e  31I.   I



D. KOMPRED Water and Sewerage Department - Balance Sheet
III Iar  hilan,
I 11U. VIM (8688N6 KWUE  list                 I   9219       92t   I    8'16   am           19461    sw   I     aM       aqme  I      Im       am   i     196       8991  a     199.      159   I
I                             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T -8             I                    I                                         a                     a                     a-.-
I ASSES is                                                                                                 I8I                                                              
its11 *53(1  - (P(Mflis                     I 1,039.3  1,02.2.I 1,1.5.1  1,641.4  I 2,3fl.S  2,3103.2  1 2,190.9  4,104.1  I 2,390.9  1,121. 1 I   ,6.6 19,76.    13,643.1  58,611.0) I
I 963(6W  FOR KPIECA1ION                      I   W2.3   463.2  I  350.  1113.61 a            .i    90. I1 8 456.8  1,124. I   5231.9  1,211.9  8   20.4  1331.9    1745.1  23,350.11 I
I                                             I--------I----  ------j----I----    ---                                               ---------- 18 I--------             I----------I
I 811 10(4*1816 ASSS                          I   111.9   939.')  I695.0  1,009.   I1,913.?  1,317.5  I  1,934.1  2,=360.18,661.0  4,B34.3  I 1,149.4 2,431.1   1,.09.0  33,261).?  1
I 1101111-1`-PII1IISS                         I    0.0   394.5    41.1:         71.1  I    I19.3   212.31 I    16.4   693.4  I  1,340. 1 ,144.9  I 1,26.1.          s6.]1 I 1,590.0   1,011.4  8
I                                                 ---   ---          -------- I II--          -    -      -- -- ---I ----  -------I ---- -                         -- --    ----- -   ------I
I fit flKE  Awls                              I  I111.    933.5  I 1,146.6  1,089.4  I 2,1831.0  I,919.81   2,700.2  1,011.1 I 13,101.1  6,186. 1 I  ,486.5 a2,490.0    10,636.0  36.?1I.6  8
a-----------I--------a------------ a-------                                                                                    ----i                               ---i   a----
IImesiafiIis                                 1   99.1   141.9  I    86.9   161. 1 I         2.2   113.9    1 11.1   210.2  I   30.1.3 159.   I                    609.11 I             3,955.4  I
I flflflMSES                                  I   19.4            I139.4              I    39.4            8    19.4            8    39.4            1    39.4             8     39.4            I
II                                            I                   I                   I-------- 
I 1399                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 38.2    44.1  I   34.3    34.5  I  0.9    140.6  I    20.0    31.3  I    50.0    94.91 I    20.0    51.4  8         50.0   y1, 6.2  I
8 9UI-11RNIEP658SItIo                         I                   I                   I                    I                    I                    I                     I                     I
I m12U1s acitva.i 081  am.mwu                 8   21.1    431.9    139.1    61.2  8160.4    141. 1 I    6.4    148.1  I    152.6   24143                  199.A 4,159.9  I    225.5  22,131.0  I
I110411FOIEs                                 I    1.1    22.0  I    3.2    21. 1 8         14.6    12.9  1      19.1    58.4  8    22.2    11.1,  I    36.0        94.31 I      41.1      49.0  I
1                                                 --      --         --------I I-- -------  I----------I--8-------I------ a-----8
I hut_CM tinn  ASSEtS                         I   68.9    180.2  I   92.17   126.1     116.8   381.2  a    120.1   2833.   I   224.2   405.9  8   245.6  4,510.6  8   323.1 24,161.?  1
I---   -------I                                  ---  ----I-------- -- --I                     ----------- -----I                                            I------8I
I WOIA   sMTS                                 I  9 I.  11,80         ,. I   1,111.3l;  I,I01   ,04.          3,036.4  1,621.4  I 4,219.0  1,9W.7  8  1,08.5 a?,60o.4  I 88,090.5  14,414.?  I                           '
I 9IIEISS rIJND                               I  M0.0   681.3  8  649.6   `964.1  I 1,0990   8,       1.       ,5113.9  2,615.6  8 2,362.1  5,1631.   I 3,411.0 13,7253.4  8 5,559.0  40,0-22.1 II
I RESW  III                                  I    0.0       9.6  I    0.0      84.2         0.0  i 22.1  I,      0.0    11.3a  I      0.0    93.9  I       0.0    53.4          0.0      99.4 
I SIWI IEI!NI FUND8                           I    0.0    64.4  I    0.0    60.2  8          0.0    92.8  I       0.0    8818.0  I     0.0   281.9  I       0.0    311.2  I        .     ,9. 
I(out1 TV  iMIS                              I    00        0.0  8    0.0       0.0  I      0.0      0.0 I        .       00I         00       00I0.0 I              .0I          .        0.0  8
II-------I-------- I                                                         I -                     -  --------I----                         I------- I----8. -I
Ifolt rgjiln                                 I  *10.0   998.6  I  949. 1 8094.8  I  1,090.0  1,104.2 it  I593.9  2,611.1  a 2,312.3  5,414.5  I 1,416.0 11,616.0  I 5,559.0  42,515.6  8
----------------I-                                   I----------- I8---                                      8---   ----------- -------                                     I
I 11N6-11110 tIAlIfIIIES,                     II8I                                                                                                   38I
I 8 sfN (USII    811                              200.3           8   811.2           I    152.1 II    124.6                    I    108.5           1    19.1            I    59.6              I
Io 8I0                                              o.o      0.0  8  162.9       0.0  I    010.4    119.9  I   322. 9    291.6 8I8,010.5    100.0  81,231.5  8,469.13        801.  6,4'6.38
I1IIfU   10OFI8I l8WOCt8 N8I                                                                                                                         I                    I     2.
I1CAt meS                                    8            229.1  I            214.0  I   244.0   199.31 l    13.3   161.5  8   441.1   811.9  8 8,429.6    134.9  813,195.1              859.2  8
IMIfO AIwl.(IEAR0wtUAIMaII                    I                   I                   I                    I                    I                     I                   I                      I
II-------I--------I                                                                        --- -------    I         ----8---I --- ----1                 -------      -I------------ I
I 101*1 116-14TFIM IIABtliES                  8  200.3   729. I   1339.1   284.0  8   91.5    10.2  I  8,220.3   445.3  818,119.18318.9  I       3  1   ,1 04.2  I  4,193.3  86,564.5  8
I         -------------8 ---                         ----I--                  8------ --        - - --------8                 ------8- a                        --- -      ----- 
ICIIIIIIA38tiI8Est                           I                   I                                                                                    
I -- - - - -- - - - -I                                            II888II
I46F(S - SUSIDING FM1                         I                   I                   I    92.9            I                    I                    I                    I                      I
C NIcuml miISiilES - tos-Urn 11[91           8   28.1    28.1  8   23.1    26.3  8    29.1    52.1  I    158.6   121.3  8    111.1   361.  I    lob.8 I8,301.0  I1156.1                    0.v  I
g9ain-arm  IsOS                              I    0.0       1.0  I    0.0       0.0  I      0.0    30.0  I       0.0      0.0  I      0.0      0.9   I     0.0   810.0  I       0.0    ?N).0  I
IACC.F61V311 I 088(4 CWM.11AN.                I   29.1    36.0  I   fl.8    98.9  I   129.  1  02.1  8    12.9   1864.18             I 82. 0    215.71 8 302l.    6 50.2  8    461.4   5,884.8  I
8IIJMA CUM91 11A)818188S                      I   50.4I    64.1  1   95.9    16.2  I   233.2   865.9  8   21.?    35. 4  8   29.1.   643.3  8    496.9  2,321.2  8   651.1   5,3114.1  1
aIlotAt 68A311881(s                           I  250.I1 293.91 I435.6   2922  I 8,236.1   410.1  I 1,452.5  1PA. I                 1,9a6.28552I12553914854852,0. 
I)OJAI (ITII I IlMbILIIIIS                    I  910.)  1,165. 1 8  ,265.2  8,316.3  I 2,180.1  2,014.9  I 1,036.4  3,627. 4  I14,219.0  6,949.1  I 1,701.5  1,109.1  88,I 0.   64,414.2  1



E. KOMPRED Water and Sewerage Department - Income Statement
ID,nars n.llstx.3
I    PPAL     I'AL I  WP'AL  ACT'AL I        ALm     A!T'AL I   WPAI   ACI'Al I   WP'AL   ACT'AL I   WP'AL  ACTAL 1 IPPA'    ACF'AL I
I fISCAl YEAR E(liII [IECEDER 31st           I   1982    1982  1   1983    1993  1    198l    1984  1    1905    1985  1    1996    1996  1    1986    1987  1    1980               198  1
1 s  SS at Z : a:8:;: Z Z X :a:s:sa::::::sX:a:::ss:s:                ::S::::22Z  2aX3322- Sx:t:stas :  =a ZZ * :5Xs2XX322Sts:2::::sa am -S:::Z as Z Z:::::SlX:::::::z:: Z ::::aZ rc=:::::: ::::::::::Z
I                                            I                  I                   I                   I                    I                   I                                         I
I RJENIES                                    I                  I                   I                   I                    I                   I                    I                    I
I HAIER                                      I   92.2    77.3  1  159.9   126.8  1   210.0   209.8  1   365.3   294.0  1   532.0   527.0  1   651.5  1,053.0  1   717.0  4,268.9  1
I SIIERAGE                                   I   10.6    20.5  1   57.2    31.4  1    71.3    45.6  1   102.2   102.3  1   153.4   182.0  1   215.9    399.2  1   271.1  1,574.9  1
I OTIU                                       I   16.0    75.2  1   21.1    73.3  1    26.7    73.2  I    28.4   132.2  1    48.9   373.7  1    54.7  1,0080.  1    53.5    551.1  1
1,,II  _-__ _I_                                                          ______ ------  I ----  _--- ---  I  -       _ -    I ----__   I   _-_   I    -                     --         I
I IOTAL REVENIE                              I  127.6   173.0  1  237.2   231.5  I   378.0   32.6  I   495.9   519.3  1   734.3  1,062.7  I   922.1  2,443.0  1 1,041.6  6,395.5  I
I ssuz::.tls$33                                tl:8  X:s::32       3533225glSX       $t5g 1333351  3333    2233123  ::::::   j 32:3:3: 3S8$::    ::z:::g  1:1::::   :2:::::X  :22:2::::
I OPERATICII COSTS                           tI                                                         I                                        I t  t
I  ---- -I------I                                                                                      I                                        III
I SALARIES                                   I   33.0    46.6  1   39.4    65.5  1    41.6    90.5  1    46.1   159.6  1    53.3   326.0  I    76.1   592.0  1    87.3  1,583.0  1    :
I (l1l(19                                    1   11.4    16.1  I   22.8    25.1  1    25.4    41.9  1    26.2    95.0  1    30.7   166.6  1    42.9   400.0  1    51.2    718.2, 1
I MIAII?   MERAIAS   DIIECAIS                1    9.5    23.4  1   10.6    30.7  1    20.9    40.1  1    27.2    55.5  1    31.2   155.2  1    50.7   215.0  I    67.1   1,843.3  1
1 ADnINiiRAIlIN   IAXES                      I   20.3    21.8  1   24.3    29.5  1    32.9    42.2  1    39.9    58.5  1    45.0   127.3  I    57.5   208.0  1    68.3    593.2  1
I O1HER                                      I    7.0    13.0  1    8.3    12.6  1    14.9    23.6  1    19.0    34.5  1    18.1    91.9  1    15.0   563.0  1    Ib.9  6,348.5  1
- I----  I ---- -                                                                - I -       - -     - I--                   I-       - -       I       -I                               I
I TOTAL WERAIIii COSTS                       1   81.2   121.6  1  105.4   163.4  1   235.6   246.3  1   157.3   393.9  1   170.3   957.7  1   242.2  1,986.0  1   29).8  11,088.2  1
I                                                     I     I------II                                                        ---  ---- _ I  _       --- I - -   -              - _ I
I INC1(1  IEFORE DEPRECIATIIN AMI INTEREST   I   46.4    51.4  1  131.0    68.1  1   242.4    92.3  1   338.6   225.4  I   556.0   225.0  1   679.9   457.0  1   750.0  (4,692.73 1
I KPRECIAIIIN                                I   15.3    22.5  1   30.3    30.5  1    30.7    42.!  1    67.3    64.7  1    67.    103.9  I    96.5   216.0  1   125.3    293.3  I
I                                           I  --------I--------I--I--------II ------                           -------I I    ----------I--.-         I---- ------I-----         I
I I2l13  BEFORE INTEREST                    I   31.1    28.19  1  101.5    37.6  1   211.7    40.2  1   271.3    60.7  1   409.2   121.1  I   583.4   241.0  1   625.5  14,986.01 1
1 INIERES1                                   1   18.4    21.8  1   20.5    20.6  1    19.5    24.0  1    17.2    30.3  1   156.7    95.2  1   214.2   279.0  1   215.2    340.6  1
I    E1 ----------    I---- -                                               ----   I     -       - -I -----II -- 
I NE1 IiWlE                                 I   12.7       7.1  1   91.0    17.0  1   192.2    16.2  1   254.1    22.4  1   331.5    29.9  1   369.2   I38.01 1   410.3  (5,326.61 1
32122212222                                   2352232z 232232sa    z*:5:22 2322233z    3*:2123  1213513a    233223x 322222*.    2232    22223:    2:33:21  :2222::     -        2===xzzz-
I   AilCATl TO: E6USINESS UID              I                   I                  I               9.2  1                   I                    1                 01 1           (5,316.6i 1
I                 RESERYE FtID              I              2.9 1              5.2  1               6.8  1              12.4 1              22.4  1                    1                    1
I                 SSTAFWlFM1EFtND           I              4.2  1             11.0  1              0.2  1              10.0  1              7.5  1                    1                    1
sXX:: Z. '.=:Z: Mgt : Z : Z Z                                 Zt :X::3=:Z Z =a:st Z  tnzs Z                            Zs23 as                     2*2Mt= a*3.s.a=:.:.zs.::s:::==:=.s.:::=.=:  :::::  :: ::::,:



F. KOMIPRED Water and Sewerage Department - Sources and Applications of Funds
AlP~t,  #,lIOI,3    I'1 A1III'l,l,g I #M-1 11111   Ir aoCt11g  I08 -I A I   a,P K41II  I    W?f"PIAL1 a $M I.AL1    WP,1.At .. KI1 -A.I ....W'
I FVIK     WIA 136396 EGIcI list            It  I19       140   I   3993    36   I    39134    19    I    OM           i~m   I     319      3,9   I    flUb1    I"?7  I    393         I9NS  I
I(1111301111 13391I5.4    50.1  3  125.1    61.1  3   244.5    12.4  3   311.1   119.2  I   5333.2   249.4  I   140.9   449.0  3   93.3  64440.81I
IMUs  KF3CI*?IrJ.                            1   13.3    22.5  I   30.3    W30.  3    30.1    42.1  3    17.3    14. 1 I            1.9   103.9  I    96.5   211.0  I    123.3    293.3  I
3       II'mk 41 1316MIS Ig                         0.0    0.4  I    0.0       0.31       0 .0     0.0  I      0.0      0.4         60.      9.1  I      9.3      1.0  I      0.0       2.0I3
I lISle lAZES IN O031                            120.31   141.91 I  124.31   129.51 I    131.91   142.21 1    (39.31   (1.3 1I    145.01  4127.31 I    651.31  i24.90 I    166.3)16595.23 
I                                            I----- ------          ---  - -.-  I---- ----I----I -I--- ---                                              ---.I- -     ----------  I
I 3011  131131  me33                         3   4.4    51.1  I   131.1    1.4  3   242.4    12.3  t   333.  1325.9  I   551.0    23.1 I    79.9   4M.0  I   15.9   4601  I
IIIMSIDENIII"MI                              3    1.4            3                  I                            . I               713 9.        I3
I OMIsilnn                                             I                  I                   I 12                           I                    I                               I
I NV tom nm                     ~~~~I                I                   I                   II                                        I                    I                     I
I      -  91                                 I             0.0  I  154.4       0.0  I   414.1    12.3  I   313.3   135.0  1   331.1   39.9  I   224.9    3.0  3    44.91 
I        fEIP13moll                          I                   I                  I                    I                    I                   I                    3   333.91            I
3        1111  OnS                           I    0.9    29.41 I    0.0    11.2  I   244.0         2.6.   I    29.3     0.0  3    154.3    41.0  3   993.9        0.0  II',1M.6        13.3  I
I        "Ks11 Al 1111-13  NEVAL11111D                          I 3                                 3.3  3             11.4  I             349.3  3            2 J213  34,957.0  I
3                                            I-----l-----------I------I------ I                                      ---I----- ---I-                             -.l--I---  ------I
I 3011AID 11362N5                            I    0.0    29.4  I   354.4    II.?  I   140.9   344.0  I   344.1    213.4  3   411.5   194.2  I129.2,33I  21,43.1  14,990.3  1
Faulty 1111001111I                                 II                   I                                        I                    I                   3                     I
I      - ELF-11 U1E511A1S                    I                   I                  I                    3    00.0            I                   I                    I                     I
I      - UMISIUD 1113  3l9iUe l              I                   I   71.0    32.3  I              101.1  I             34.2  I    300.6    59.4  I                     II
I      -10 BE 11313                          I                   I                  I                    I                    I                   I   562.0       0.03   3,1516    3,032.03 I 
I      - SECCIII    OM= D - C1l1             I                  3    6.3            I      9.1           I    11.0            I                   I                    I    35.9,            I
I      -LIIFAI3tsIRIIS                       I                       29.0           I     23.51          I    3'.2                341.3           1   331.9            I                     I                    L
I                                            I-----I ----------------- ---I----   I ----  -I---------I
IFIALM 190311 mm17                           I    0.0    41.4  I   346.3    32.3  I    33.2   101.1  1   249.6    14.2  I   441.5    59.4  I   743.9              0.0  I 1,612.1   i,03.r.1  I
I--   -------       --I                         -------- I ---- --I ----                                 I  ---- ----   I        ----        ---         --   --       3...- --   - ----- 
I 1011 111TA!1 MM~ IF 1tt336                I    0.0    11.9  3  217.7    43.3  I   779.31   250.3  I   594.4   2735.1 I 919.0   633. 1   L ,1.   ,3.       39131,3. 
---- ------- --- - -3----- -                                    -------......                      -3. ---.---   I--                --  --.-I---.-----   I----  ---  3-
I130111 STIACS (F  1336                      I   52.6   323. 1 I  394.5   Ill.?  I 3,021.S   333.3  3   940.3   403.4  I 3,504.0  3,079.?  I 2,14Z.6  2,491.3  I 4,5611.   11,321. 1I
3 ,..n.........n.nn.I us..... *.a.n.  3 *..s.s ss.....  3 .....s  .......  3  s.sss*   stan..  3 a......  se,...  3 ss.n..  as....   3 ....... a.....,.
INP11C661131411N3OF                          3 t                                    IIII                                                          I                                          I
3I*.t.85*8.s .af.... *I..                                                  I                                                  I                                                              I 
Ito Ftmi                                                                                                                                          I                                          I
I      - FOICEI                              I    0.0      0.0  I  443.2       0.0  I 3,021.5       0.0  3    331.4     0.0  I   704.3       0.0  I   123.2       0.0  I      0.0       0.0I3
I      - 01313                               I    0.0       0.0  I   33.9      0.0  I    11.1       0.0  I    36.4      0.0  3   2911.3       .       , 0.0        .034,241.1           0.0  I
I -                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -------- --I-I--------3--.---------------
3 -----                         ~         ~        ~          ~        ~          ~         ~         ~         ~          ~        ~~I  3  3603    I.244.  I  I 
I   INIIIESI                                 I   16.4    21.6  I   20.5    20.61          1 9.5    24.0  3    37.2    36.3  I   151.1    91.2  I   234.2   279.0  3   215.2    340.613
I 1    11133                                 I                   I                  I                    I                   I                    I                    I                     I
I    ---                                                        I                   I                    I                   I                    I                    I                     I
I        6-IIIIIUI                                              I                   I                    I    62.51          I                    I                    I                     I
I    1IlS1111 ElI                            1    35.2          I   23.3            I    21.3            3    25.3           I    27.5            I    2S.2            3    23.6             1
I    I&AL LIDs                               I             4.3  I             23.7  3              21.3  3             52.9  3   131.3    21.3  3   3401.3    35. 1         1 34.3     31.0  I
1 I101                                        8~~~~~~~3  .0  I      0.6  I              0.6  I               0.                 93.5  3    13.3   33.01 I    35.4  3,210.0  I
3  I--------I--------I--I-----------I---.-.--I---------I--                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  --------- 
I  1011  113133A3351                              153.2    34.3  I   23.3    23.7  3    23.3    21.3  I   307.1         2. 321  I 131 1323.3  3   171.1    317. 1 3    11.5  13,YJ.0  I
I----------                                       -------I----                    I--- --- I-I ------- - ----I---- - -----3                 3----I--------3
IH10AI, 111 SERVICE                          I   33.1    31.3  3   43.9    42.3  3    42.6    50.3  3   124.9    93.1  I   Us5.$   2132.  1   393.3   141.1  3   401.1  3,111.   I
------------------                                               -----  ---             -- --------                         -- -------- ----                           ---------I 
I INCRMSEIIECEtASE  - lwRIM  CUhiMA         3   3.9    34.1  3  4122.53       1.2  I    MAI.4   329.3  3    91.3  3304.33 I    51.         30.0  I   43131.3  3,310.2  I   (83.23 33,311.7  I
331MAM13tECUEASl - 3ImSINIIIS               3     .4    42.93 I   333.03    19.1  3      14.31   17.3  3   313.9    93.3         1333.1    84.9  3   1307.83   253. 1I      0.0  3,46.6.13
I11iSC1113(O5                                     0.0      0.0  I    0.0   3116.21 31    0.0    39.93 31    0.0  4320.1 1 3          .0   file.11 3     0.   1,962.21 3      0.0 110,:64 21
3                           3-                I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     ~         ~~~~~--- --3---------   II-------3
IITI 3011 tI3CAIIONf IFt114                  I   32.0   IN1. 1 3   94.5   333.1  I 1,021.5   33.3 I3   940.9   401.4  I 3,504.0  3,019.2  I 2,12.1  2,497.3  I 4,36.1.  31,321.6  I



-------------------------- --------------------
N                                   .              *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FM4 
" S                       C                     I             s i a                                          *4W1 n    i
U -z i -                                        , _            01*h  _                                 ._
"  *s.si e-X iFX  i-i                                                         u;g;  -  _  ..@ 3
"    #:          :-'  _:       *-             :E  11          ff ls                 -,4        _o.  j*           .4     N
Zalr                WA            I.      _           j        ,4       -,    3           ,                 -
n                                               |c j-  .                .g                             u
M:-                 13 .
-                                  i                                    s                                           -- n
a                                                                      Wa.                                           Na- N_t   0@X     >     is 
N,      4s _eb                      -s NW"                                    ~        Wh     
N                                                                                                                   nS     u N.
N'     00            W                                             4                                                N_>  ND j_^i 
N                                  oo _,                                                                            N@8 _ N fE^
*                                                                                                        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - ---------------_                                                             _ _    .    _
N       10                                                    ,,W.a _   a   ty   WNeC                              "-     "
-*   - 0 -o_           -------                          -4  - - r -_ -o - -t -                     --          -4
N 00              _              B            ;gF             oom N- b ~  
N  *p.J  ~ ~        ~         &.           Nb--                                                 ,, .JII.
U                                                         0;zb             Sts-W A6 W                                  R
g0_0                                                                                        P "w
-                               - --                                          ---- - -        - - - -- -      --  --  - -
N  j           AA           c- .0         ;.Mi               o- --                                           N -
N- - - - - -- - - - - -N-- - - - -- - -                                                                  - -       -    - 
-                                                         P.)                                     P.i N- ~
N -                                      -e -             -----                -----            --
N                ...                                                                                  N ~~~~~z



