FILE CP 
Document of                          ,       ...
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. P-3445-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRIJCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $30.0 MILLION
TO
THE REGIONAL WORK ORGANIZATION (KOMPRED) TUZLA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJEC
January 7, ]1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                 Calendar 1981              November 30, 1982
US$1                             Din 41.82                   Din 64.30
Din 1                            US$ 0.024                    US$ 0.015
Din 1,000,000                    US$23,910                   US$15,552
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BiH               -   The Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
BOAL              -   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
KOMPRED           -   Regional Work Organization, Public Utilities,
Tuzla
SDK               -   Social Accounting Service
SFRY              -   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
UNDP              -   United Nations Development Program
VODOVOD           -   Self-managed Water and Sewerage Enterprise
WHO               -   World Health Organization
ZAVOD             -   Municipal Institute for Construction - Tuzla
*   As of November 30, 1982.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
borrower:           Regional Work Organization IKOMPRED), Tuzla, located in the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Guarantor:          The Socialist Federal RepubLic of Yugoslavia
Amount:             US$30.0 million equivalent in various currencies, including
capitalized front-end fee o:, $0.50 million.
Terms:              Amortization over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Pro ject
Description:        The project objectives are zo (i) reduce present and
expected water shortages in the Tuzla area; (ii) improve
the environmental conditions in the Spreca river basin
through provision of primary and secondary treatment; (iii)
reduce the health hazards through the reduction of air
pollution; (iv) improve the institutional capacity and
assure the financial self-sufficiency of the borrower; and
(v) to improve the institutional capacity in project
preparation and implementation, works operation and
maintenance, and financial management by the development of
existing organizations. These objectives would be achieved
through (a) the development of a first phase of a regional
water supply system to inclilde a treatment plant for iron
and manganese removal, treated water pumping plant,
transmission mains (15 km), a tunnel, a balancing reservoir
and extension of the distri'ution systems; (b) the
development of a sewage collection and disposal system to
include extension of the sewage network, interceptors (5.0
km), sewage treatment works for secondary treatment and an
outfall main; (c) the construction of a central heating
system based on hot water generated at a thermal power
station including a hot water pumping plant, primary mains
(10 kms), equipment for about 90 substations, secondary
mains (23 kms); (d) the provision of operation and
maintenance equipment; (e) a tariff study, and studies
for second stage development of the regional water supply
system; and (f) a staff training program.
The project will be implemented during 1983-1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLsed without World Bank authorization.



Project Benefits
and Risks:        The project is expected to (i) through the provision of
additional water supply and the reduction in river water
pollution, enable municipal and industrial development to
proceed as planned; and (ii) through improved air quality
in the Tuzla area, achieve significant health benefits.
Major project risks would relate to the possibility of
delay in project implementation and cost overruns, which
are normally associated with any large civil works
undertaking. With actions already taken or to be taken
regarding project preparation and proposed construction
coordination and supervision, these risks would, however,
be minor.



Cost Estimates 1/                                      Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ Million--------
Water Supply                                             5.6         4.3         9.9
Sewage Collection and Disposal                           6.3         5.9        12.2
Central heating                                         11.3         7.8        19.1
Solid Waste                                              0.1         0.2         0.3
Construction Supervision                                 1.0         0.5         1.5
Consultants and Training                                 2.8         1.8         4.6
Total Baseline Costs                               27.1       20.5        47.6
Physical Contingencies                                   2.5         2.0         4.5
Price Contingencies                                      3.6         2.9         6.5
Total Project Costs 2/                             33.2       25.4        58.6
Interest During Construction                             1.2         4.1         5.3
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                                -          0.5         0.5
Total Project Financing Requirements               34.4        30.0       64.4
Financing Plan
Internal Cash Generation                                 3.5         -           3.5
Grants and Contributions                                24.8         -          24.8
Local Bank Loans and Advances                            6.1         -           6.1
IBRD Loan (including front end fee)                        -        30.0 3/    30.0
Total Project Financing Requirements               34.4       30.0        64.4
Estimated Disbursements
FY83   FY84   FYE5   FY86   FY87   FY88
Annual                         3.4    8.2    6.8    5.3    3.9    2.4
Cumulative                     3.4   11.6   18.4   23.7   27.6   30.0
Rates of Return: 10.9% for Water Supply.
13.1% for Central Heating.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4096-YU, dated December 9, 1982
_1/ Costs are based on December 1982 price levels.
2/ Taxes and Duties estimated at US$7.5 million are included in the project
cost.
3/ Includes interest during construction.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REGIONAL WORK ORGANIZATION (KOMPRED), TUZLA
WITH THE GUARANCEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A TUZLA REGION WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
I 1.       I submit tl-,e following report ard recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Regional Work 13Organization (KOMPRED), Tuzla for the equivalent of
US0300 million5 with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugosla-via, to help finance a Water Supply and Environmental Project in the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH). The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate,
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A Basic Economic Mission visitedl Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in
November, 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export Performance and
Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5,
198C. In November 19sO an economic mission visited Yugoslavia and its report
entitled "Raising Productivity in Yugoslav Industry: Some Issues", 3383a-YU
was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 3, 1981. An economic
mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report entitled "Yugoslavia:
Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Basic data on the economy are given
in Annex T.
Institutional Settin,C
3.         The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social aevelopment. It accounts for 85% cf GDP and employs over half the
total labor force,, The private sector corLsists predominantly of peasant farms
and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,  trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at: all levels is governed by the
principle of workers' self-management, invTolving a unique set of institutions
and instruments of economic policy. The current system has evolved over the
years with major changes introduced through the constitution-of 1974.
ResponsibiliLy for important social and economic decisions has been shifted
from, the Federation to the Republics, Autonomous Provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers' colLectives over the socially-owned
means of production has been increased by a restructuring of all economic
organizations into legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor
(BGALss) which are the smallest production units producing a marketable output.



- 2 -
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of the
system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the participation
of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy while
maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. Beginning
with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments have been used to
augment more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures, particularly in
the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized-decision making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a nonhierarchical
basis. An exhaustive interchange of information is required to achieve
consistency among the plans of economic units concurrent with broader social
objectives. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into legally
binding medium-term agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions.
In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the state is
permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 6%. in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US$2,790 at 1981 market
prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the driving
force of the economy between 1960 and 1981 with the share of industry in GDP
increasing to around 45% while agriculture has declined to about 12%. The
past two decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia
into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise exports and imports
grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively; much of this
was with markets in the convertible currency area.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large regional
income disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia
and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference between
the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these unterregional disparities there
are large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to 1 . These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratio, and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for tlhe Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, which is financed through a tax on all social
sector enterprises in the economy.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been
the problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased
by around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence
of these differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector
employment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the
working age population caused by relatively high population growth in the
LDR has further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak
in 1973 Yugoslavia had about 1.1 million external migrants. However, since
1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries,
this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing
added pressure on the social sector to create new work places.
Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in
mid 1982. 1/ The incidence of unemploymE!nt is highly regionalized, because
population and labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of
agricultural employment, are all much higher in the LDR.  In June 1982
unemployment rates ranged from 30.7% in Kosovo to 1.5% in Slovenia.
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive long-term growth record, Yugoslavia today
faces perhaps its most difficult economic situation since it liberalized
its economy in 1965. The domestic and international repercussions of the
1979 oil price shock are still being felt by the Yugoslav economy. In that
year the combination of slow export growth on the one hand and the steep
rise in import prices on the other generated a record $3.7 billion deficit
in the balance of payments. This deficit, which was equivalent to
5.4 percent of GDP, prompted the government to introduce a series of
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to total resident labor force was about
9.0% in mid-1982.



- 4 -
stabilization measures. The main elements of the stablization program
introduced thus far have been more restrictive monetary and fiscal policies
to curb investment and reduce inflationary pressure and the more active use
of exchange rate policy to encourage exports. At the same time, import
purchases have been scaled back in line with the revenues accruing from
export earnings and more limited foreign borrowing. Yugoslavia is being
supported in its stabilization efforts by the IMF through a three-year
standby arrangement in an aggregate amount of SDR 1,662 million which took
effect in January 1981.
10.      As a result of these stabilization measures, Yugoslavia succeeded
in reducing its current account deficit to $2.3 billion in 1980 and to $750
million in 1981. This latter performance is particularly noteworthy, since
the original 1981 plan target was to reduce the deficit to $1.8 billion.
Underlying this improvement has been a strong surge in exports which
increased in volume by 11 percent in 1980 and 12 percent in 1981. At the
same time, import volume was reduced by 10 percent in 1980 and 2 percent in
1981. In 1982 the deficit was further reduced to an estimated $0.1 billion
which was again considerably lower than the plan target of $0.5 billion.
However, in 1982, merchandise exports declined by an estimated 11 percent
in volume compared with 1981. This was due to recession in its major
trading countries, some erosion of Yugoslavia's competitiveness, and to
some extent, because of the shortage of imported inputs caused by the
earlier import cutbacks. Performance in invisibles in 1982 has also been
below expectations. The Yugoslav authorities responded by further
devaluing the dinar by 20 percent against the dollar in October 1982 and
cutting imports sharply so that the value of merchandise imports declined
by 21 percent. One notable effect of this cutback has been the shortage of
oil products. In October 1982, the government introduced rationing of
gasoline for domestic passenger vehicles which are now restricted to
purchases of 40 liters per month. While every effort is being made to
isolate important domestic producers and exporters in particular from the
effects of the import restrictions, the import squeeze is clearly causing
some difficulties for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's external adjustment efforts have been further
complicated by adverse developments in the international capital markets.
The increases in international interest rates since 1979 helped push
interest payments from $0.8 billion in 1979 to an estimated $2.2 billion in
1982. At the same time, the bunching of maturities has meant that
principal repayments on medium- and long-term debt have risen from
$1.7 billion in 1979 to an estimated $2.2 billion in 1982. The private
international capital markets have, however, proved reluctant to extend
significant amounts of additional credit to Yugoslavia during 1982. This
has partly been due to the general uncertainty in the capital markets
caused by developments in Latin America and Eastern Europe. While there is
widespread recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts,
the commercial banks are still adopting a cautious position toward the
country, particularly in the light of liquidity problems experienced by
some Yugoslav banks. During 1982, medium- and long-term credits to



Yugoslavia declined to approximately $2.5 biLlion, compared with $2.8
billion during the same period in 1981. Similarly, while Yugoslavia was
able to increase its short-term borrowing by $461 million in 1981, it was
unable to roll these debts over and in 1982 it reduced outstanding
Short-term debt by $750 million. These developments have put severe
pressure on external liquidity in the second half of the year.
12.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2 percent. In 1980 and 1981 GDP is estimated to have
increased by 2.4 percent and 2.2 percent respectively. The latest
available estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1982 will be less than
1 percent. This reduction in growth rate is partly a result of the
stabilization measures but is also due to shortages of imported inputs.
Industrial output has been particularly affected. In 1979 industrial
output increased by over 8 percent, but in 1980 and 1981 industrial output
rose by only 4 and 1 percent respectively, and it declined by an estimated
2.7 percent in 1982. There have been marked fluctuations in agricultural
output mainly due to climatic factors. In 1980 agricultural output
stagnated while in 1981 it increased by only 1 percent. 1982 has been a
much more successful year for Yugoslav agricultural producers, however, and
output increased by about 5 percent over its 1981 level.
13.      Fixed investment has fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at an average rate of 9.5 percent
between 1975 and 1979, it declined by 1.7 percent and 9.6 percent in 1980
and 1981 respectively. Fixed investment is estimated to have declined by a
further 6 percent in 1982. Despite these slowdowns in investment and
economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably successful in maintaining a
fast pace of job creation in the social sect:or. Social sector employment
increased by 3.2 percent in 1980, 2.9 percent in 1981 and an estimated
2.5 percent in 1982. Generally speaking, eriployment growth has been
fastest in the less developed regions where the incidence of unemployment
is more severe.
14.      Inflation rates have fluctuated considerably in recent years.  In
1977 and 1978 inflation averaged 13 percent; in 1979, in part due to
increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices, it increased to 22 percent.
One of the aims of the stabilization program is to secure a significant
reduction in the rate of inflation. Unfortunately, despite significant
declines in the growth of investment and real domestic demand, inflationary
pressures have continued to pose substantial problems for the economy. In
1980 and 1981 inflation accelerated to 30 percent and 38 percent
respectively. This has been due to a combination of factors. The
dismantling of domestic price controls in order to promote more efficient
resource allocation, increases in administered prices in agriculture to
stimulate production and in energy to rationalize energy use, have all
served to put upward pressure on the price level. In addition, the
increase in international prices since 1979 and the cumulative effects of
the substantial depreciation of the dinar have resulted in a considerable
increase in domestic production costs. While nominal personal income



-6 -
levels have risen sharply since 1979, real personal incomes declined by
8 percent in 1980 and 5 percent in 1981. This compares with an average
increase of 2.4 percent recorded during 1975-79. In 1982 the Government
set a price target of 15 percent for the year as a whole. Although there
was a significant decline in inflation in the first six months of the year,
the rate was still above the target set by the authorities. In an effort
to bring inflation under control, the authorities introduced a temporary
price freeze on July 31. Despite that, the inflation rate during 1982 is
estimated at 30 percent.
Medium Term Prospects
15.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on economic growth, particularly
the constraints on external borrowing, the plan is being significantly
revised. Rather than setting detailed medium-term targets for production
and investment, the plan in effect now consists of a series of rolling
targets determined by each successive annual plan resolution. The main
goal of economic policy is to put the balance of payments on a secure
footing and to ensure stable and sustained growth during the 1986-90 plan
period. For the next few years, however, the authorities expect to see
continued slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports. This strategy
also implies a significant reduction in the share of investment in GDP
compared with the previous plan. Through a combination of import
restriction and export promotion, the aim is to achieve a current account
surplus before the end of the plan period. Within the reduced investment
program, the priorities stressed are export promotion, the development of
domestic energy sources and raw materials, production of basic metals,
basic chemicals and capital goods. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
Nonproductive investment, except for housing, is to be cut back sharply.
16.      Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector
to generate additional employment at the pace of the past plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties,
more emphasis is being laid on the development of labor intensive
activities, including small-scale enterprises and the increased use of
shift work.
17.      Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
regions will play an important role in this process, with particular stress
on encouraging social sector enterprises in the more developed regions
(MiDR) to make direct investments in the LDR.  The initial experience with
such joint ventures is encouraging and a substantial number of such
projects have been launched. They could make a significant contribution to
the overall efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the
transfer of technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.



-7-
Creditworthiness
18.      As a result of limited access to the international capital markets
in the past three years, commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia have
declined significantly and most recent credits have been organized on a
bilateral inter6overnmental basis. Gross medium- and long-term capital
inflows declined from $2.8 billion in 1981 to an estimated $2.5 billion in
1982. Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is
estimated at about $17.0 billion at the end of 1982 while short-term debt
at the end of September 1982 stood at about $0.9 billion. Total foreign
exchange reserves as of November 1982 were $1.8 billion. There was a
substantial decline in official foreign exc>iange reserves during 1982, and
at the end of November 1982 these amounted to $1.0 billion, or roughly
three weeks of imports of goods and services from the convertible currency
area.
19.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in past
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form
of suppliers' credits. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances, the debt
service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 16% between
1976 and 1981, while the debt service ratio in convertible currencies
averaged 19% over the same period. In 1982, however, the estimated
aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22 percent reflecting the increase
in interest payments on floating rate debts and the decline in the value of
exports. Similarly the estimated debt service ratio on convertible
currency debts rose to 27 percent. In order to ensure the orderly
repayment of its external debts, the Federal Government passed a special
foreign exchange law in 1982 which established a series of regional and
federal funds for debt repayment. While Yugoslavia has faced significant
liquidity problems this year, it has contirued to service its debts without
significant payments delays. Although its liquidity situation may remain
difficult in the near term, the aggregate c.ebt service ratio is expected to
decline somewhat over the next few years. Given Yugoslavia's past debt
service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated capacity to implement firm
stabilization policies when these are called for, it remains creditworthy
for a substantial level of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAT:;ONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
20.      The proposed project would be the 76th loan by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,209.8 million. 1/ Of this, approximately 39%
1/ The 74th and 75th loans, namely the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural
Development Project (US$35 million loan) and the Semberija Drainage
Project (US$34.6 million loan) were approved by the Executive Directors
on May 4 and May 10, 1982, respectively.



- 8 -
($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the transportation sector
-- 12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline
and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically, Bank
lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to the
transportation loans, five power loans, one telecommunications loan, three
water supply and sewerage and three multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector for which thirteen
operations, totalling $772 million (about 24% of the total) have been
made.Twenty-one loans amounting to $475 million (about 15% of the total)
have also been made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and
the first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976.
21.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance (disbursements as a
percentage of total commitments) deteriorated somewhat in 1981 largely due
to a shortage of local funds arising from financial constraints. Following
an implementation review of the whole loan portfolio with Borrowers in the
fall of 1981, performance has markedly improved in 1982. Yugoslavia's
performance now, as traditionally, compares most favorably with Bank-wide
and regional averages and with most other countries of a similar per capita
income. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
22.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives
are to: (i) increase exports and improve the efficiency of import
substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic investment with a
view to increasing production with the more limited investment resources
available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and (iv) reduce
unemployment, particularly in the LDR. It is obvious that not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
continues to be toward the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Underpinning this orientation are economic surveys
of the four LDRs undertaken by the Bank, intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
23.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of
the LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied
in the 1981-85 Development Plan. As in the last plan period, the Federal
Government agreed with its constituents on the level of domestic resources
to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund mechanism (para. 7) as
well as the distribution of external resources including Bank lending. The
distribution of Bank lending was determined broadly on the basis of income
levels and population size of particular regions. Over the past five
years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through
operations for transportation, power, agricultural development and
industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank lending to
the LDR through similar operations is expected to continue.



24.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the
1974 Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been
to revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5),
the process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome.
The Bank has therefore put increased emphasis on having an impact on the
shaping of the policy framework and fostering coordination, particularly
in the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
25.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank
has helped to attract additional sources oE credit through co-financing
arrangements and through assisting in the establishment of new banking
relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank, however, is the major source of
long-term external capital and will remain so in the near future. Its
significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is regarded by foreign
financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance,
policies and prospects. In its future lending to Yugoslavia, the Bank
intends to put increased emphasis on co-financing. In view of the present
commercial market constraints that Yugoslavia is facing, however, and
because of the country's complex banking and foreign exchange allocation
system, the extent and form of co-financing related to Bank projects will
have to be handled flexibly.
26.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about 9.0% of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to
remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total
debt service was 5.4% in 1981 and is projected to be about 6% by 1986.
27.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then,
IFC has made 19 investments in the country and, as of December 31, 1982,
IFC's portfolio amounted to $326.5 millior gross and $172.6 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic cbjectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (c.) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the less developed regions
of the country.



- 10 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Sector
28.      The Federal Commission for Water Management is responsible for
establishing the basic framework for the maintenance of water quality
within the country. Water quality standards for drinking water are
established by the Commission of Health. Commissions for Water Management
in each Republic coordinate water resource development and establish stream
classification criteria regarding degrees of pollution. The Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina has issued regulations concerning the "Protection of
Waters, tClassification of Waters, and Categorization of Streams." The
regulations define measures to limit the release of harmful materials into
the waterways and provide for construction of facilities to process
wastewater and reduce pollution. Four classes of waterways were
established in accordance with the purpose for which the water is intended.
29.      Individual communes 1/ are responsible for the provision of
water supply and sewerage services and for this purpose in the large
urban centers local self-management enterprises, usually designated as
"Vodovods", have been established. These financially autonomous
enterprises operate under Yugoslavia's self-management principles and are
subject to control by the communes regarding both their investment programs
and tariffs.
30.      Growing urbanization and industrialization have in some areas
caused severe air and water pollution, which has resulted in a growing
awareness of its impact on health and living conditions in general. The
authorities preserve and enhance the quality of their inland and coastal
waters by the construction of flow regulating and pollution control
structures and wastewater treatment facilities. For maintaining an
acceptable air standard, appropriate methods or fuels are being developed
for heating purposes. The proposed project aims at solving serious
environmental problems in the Tuzla region. The financing of specific
community water supply and sewerage projects is mainly at the communal and
Vodovod levels with considerable dependence upon voluntary contributions
from the workers and the enterprises, and from water and sewerage tariffs.
Republic funds are also made available in varying amounts, as well as
Federal funds at concessional terms to finance projects in the less
developed areas of Yugoslavia.
Bank Lending in the Sector
31.      Since 1971, the Bank has played a continuing role in the
development of the Yugoslav water and sewerage sector with increasing
1/ The Commune or municipality in Yugoslavia is an administrative area
normally covering a town and its surrounding rural communities. It
has an Assembly and an Executive Council.



- 11 -
attention devoted to environmental pollution. The Ibar, Metohija and
Macedonia projects include community water supply, irrigation, and power
generating elements. The Morava project covers municipal water supply and
sewerage systems, and also includes comprehensive studies on water quality,
flood hazards and regional development.  The Dubrovnik and Sarajevo
projects concentrate on the provision of community water supply and
wastewater disposal facilities and on reduction of Sarajevo air pollution
through construction of a central gas heating system. The Kosovo Water
Supply Project provides water to two communes through a newly developed
regional water authority. The Bank is also assisting in the preparation
of a pollution control project in the Titova Mitrovica area of Kosovo where
lead pollution has reached serious proportions. In addition to substantial
financial participation in these projects, the Bank has actively assisted
the Borrowers in project development and implementation as well as in the
establishment of new institutions and in the preparation of appropriate
financial strategies. Previous experience in project execution has
generally been favorable although lengthy delays, as in the Ibar and
Metohija projects, have occurred because of redesign and/or procurement
difficulties.
Bank Strategy
32.      In keeping with the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia, lending
in the sector has focussed primarily on the less-developed republics. In
doing so, the Bank has been able to assist the Government of Yugoslavia in
its policy of meeting basic needs in these regions through improving health
and environmental conditions. The Bank will continue to play a key role in
institutional development, as in the proposed project, where a principal
objective is the strengthening of the borrower, the Regional Work
Organization (KOMPRED) for Tuzla, in project preparation, works operation
and financial management.
Background
33.      The project area covers the Tuzla region in the Republic of Bosnia
and Herzegovina. The town of Tuzla is located in the northeastern part of
the Republic where the southeastern slopes of the Majevica mountain descend
into the fertile valley of the Spreca River. The Tuzla master plan area,
with regard to water supply, covers the town of Tuzla and the following six
municipalities: Lukavac, Banovici, Zivinice, Lopare, Srebenik and
Kalesija. Tuzla and its surroundings are among the most densely populated
and heavily industrialized areas in Yugoslavia due, in part, to the
availability of raw materials such as salt, lignite and limestone and also
to the development of thermal power. The population in Tuzla and the six
municipalities were in 1981 121,455 and 236,343 respectively and are
projected to increase to about 194,000 and 333,000 by 2020.
34.      Because of excessive salt solution mining, the center of Tuzla is
subsiding, and most buildings and infrastructural works have been damaged



- 12 -
or destroyed. Ten thousand people have already been relocated, and an
additional 15,000 will be relocated over the next five years. The Tuzla
area is also facing increasing environmental problems of water shortages
and river pollution, aggravated by significant industrial effluents, and of
air pollution mainly caused by the large number of lignite-burning
facilities used for heating purposes.
35.      In order to address the subsiding phenomenon, a master plan for
the rehabilitation and development of the Tuzla municipality has been
prepared. A first stage program to be executed during 1981-86 includes the
following components: (i) development of an area of about 50 ha for the
relocation of about 15,000 inhabitants on the western side of Tuzla,
including the provision of infrastructure and public utilities; (ii)
redevelopment of the central part of Tuzla (the subsided area) into a civic
and cultural center; and (iii) construction of a central heating system to
serve new and subsequent housing developments. The salt solution mining
will gradually be phased out, and geological stability will be restored.
36,      The Jala River, which flows through Tuzla and is a tributary of
the Spreca River, is heavily polluted by domestic and industrial wastes.
Two UNDP/WHO studies entitled "Investigation into the Reduction of the Jala
River Pollution", and "Reduction of the Water Pollution in the Spreca River
Basin" were completed in 1980 and 1982. The first study defined the
problems resulting from the discharge of municipal and industrial
wastewaters into the Jala River and established alternative methods for
pollution control. The second study provided specific advice on
pre-treatment requirements for industrial effluents and on treatment for
domestic and industrial wastes for Tuzla. A review was also made of
minimum flow requirements in the Spreca River for maintaining an acceptable
water quality standard with regard to downstream use of water.
Tuzla Region Water Supply and Demand
37.      The Tuzla water supply is from (i) three wells in the area of
Stupari3 and (ii) four wells in the area of Toplica which also provide
water to Lukavac and Zivinice. In the area of Spreca Polje, four wells
have recently been constructed but have not been developed due to excessive
iron and manganese content. Water supply available for the Tuzla
municipa'ity totals 30,672 m3/day which is roughly distributed as
follows: domestic consumption (44 percent), industrial/commercial
consumption (30 percent), and unaccounted for (26 percent). There is no
potential for any further ground water development in the area. The water
supply for the six municipalities is based on spring or ground water and is
currently 12,528 m3/day. The maximum per capita water availability for
Tuzla (about 126 1/day) and the six municipalities (about 90 1/day) is
generally very low and during the summer months, well below actual demand,
resulting in intermittent supply.  The water demand projections are based
on an average per capita demand of 150 1/day in Tuzla and 110 1/day in the
six municipalities, and on the assumption that the service levels
(percentage population connected to the system) will increase from 79
percent in Tuzla and 36 percent in the six municipalities to 100 percent



- 13 -
overall by early 1990s. This would correspDnd to a required water supply
production capacity by 2005 of about 106,800 m3/day or an increase of
150% over the existing one.
38.      For major industries, water supply depends on the Modrac
reservoir, located some 18 km from Tuzla, which is fed primarily by the
S reca River. The available flow rate froim the Modrac reservoir is 7
m /sec, of which 4.7 m3/sec is allocated for downstream users in the
Spreca river; and the remaining 2.3 m3/sec is allocated to industrial
water supply. This flow rate is sufficient for the time being, but would
have to be increased to meet the demand from ongoing industrial
development, including a proposed second thermal power plant to be located
in the neighborhood of Zivinice about 20 kut from Tuzla.
39.      For Tuzla and the six municipalities the projected average daily
water demand by 1985 (excluding major industries) exceeds the present
production capacity by 34 percent; the corresponding percentage for major
industries is 7 percent. Any delay in the extension of water production
and distribution facilities would significantly impede the development of
the Tuzla region and result in considerable hardship for water consumers
generally.
Tuzla Sewerage
40.      The sewerage system for Tuzla presently serves about 38 percent of
the population and mainly covers high density areas, while holding and
septic tanks are more prevalent in fringe areas. The service level is
projected to gradually increase and by 2003 about 65 percent would be
connected to the system. The system is combined for sanitary sewage and
storm water, and only recently have separate sanitary sewers started to be
laid. The domestic and industrial effluents are discharged into the Jala
river at a number of outfall points, which during low flows create a severe
pollution situation. If no action is taken on sewage disposal, water
pollution will gradually get worse because of population growth and
industrial development, which would make it increasingly difficult to
maintain reasonable and generally accepted environmental standards. The
objectives with regard to the Jala and the Spreca rivers are to reduce the
pollution levels to initially satisfy the characteristics of what is
classified as a Category III river (they are now Category IV i.e. "highly
polluted water").
Tuzla Central Heating
41.      Air pollution in Tuzla is basically caused by lignite burning
heating boilers which serve about 79 percent of the total population.
During the winter season air inversion often occurs. The air pollution
frequently exceeds acceptable levels, causing a high incidence of
respiratory diseases. The lignite presently used as fuel is being depleted
in the area and would gradually have to be replaced by a lignite with an
even higher sulphur content, which would, if no actions were taken, further
deteriorate the air quality. In order to reduce the health hazard in
connection with high air pollution levels the Tuzla municipality has



- 14 -
decided to gradually replace the existing heating boilers with a central
heating system based on the circulation of hot water generated at an
existing thermal power station located about 4 km from Tuzla. The central
heating system would initially cover (i) areas presently under development
for absorbing people relocated from the subsiding areas; and (ii) areas
served by local boiler stations or individual facilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
42.      The project was appraised in March/April 1982 with a follow-up
mission in July 1982. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4096a-YU, dated
December 9, 1982, is being distributed separately. The key features of the
project are described in the Loan and Project Summary and in Section III of
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 18 to 25,
1982 with a Yugoslavian delegation led by Mr. Ferid Beslagic representing
the Privredna Banka Sarajevo and the Republican Government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and including representatives from KOMPRED, the Tuzla
municipality, and the Federal Government.
Project Genesis and History
43.      A master plan for the rehabilitation and the development of the
Tuzla municipality identified future infrastructure requirements. The
UNDP/WHO studies referred to in paragraph 36, provided the groundwork for
the establishment of pollution control standards within the Spreca River
Catchment Area. On the above basis, World Bank missions explored possible
alternatives for Bank assistance and agreed with Republican and Tuzla
officials that the Bank would concentrate its support on regional water
supply development and environmental rehabilitation.
44.      During preparation of the project, studies were undertaken for
(a) the development of a regional water supply system for Tuzla and its six
surrounding municipalities, and a sewage disposal system for Tuzla; (b) the
feasibility for a Tuzla wastewater treatment plant; (c) the extension of a
central heating system; and (d) the investigation of existing levels of air
pollution and its related health impact. During the preparation of the
regional water supply system, it was, however, decided, because of
financial constraints, to phase its implementation with only a minor
portion to be constructed in a first phase. The second phase would then be
executed during 1986-1989.
Project Objectives
45.      The project would cover about 73 percent of the projected water
supply, sewerage and sewage disposal and central heating combined
investments during the project implementation period 1982-1987. The
remaining 27 percent would represent investments for the second phase of
the regional water supply system. The project objectives are: (a) to
reduce present and implementation water shortages by the extension of a



- 15 -
first phase of the regional water supply system, thus enabling community
and industrial development to proceed as envisaged; (b) to improve the
environmental conditions in the Spreca river basin through provision of
primary and secondary treatment for domestic and industrial effluents for
the Tuzla municipality; (c) to reduce the present health hazards through
the reduction of air pollution; (d) to improve KOMPRED's institutional
capacity in project preparation and implemantation, works operation and
maintenance, and financial management; and (e) to assure financial
self-sufficiency through adequate water supply, sewerage and central
heating charges. The project would result in the development of a regional
water supply system in the Tuzla area, in ?ollution reduction and control
in the Spreca River Basin, and in the creation of a healthier living
environment.
Project Composition
46.      In order to relieve Tuzla's immediate water shortage, the ground
water source at Spreca Polje (para. 37) will be developed with a treatment
plant to be installed for iron and manganese removal. The water from this
source will be conveyed to the existing Spreca pumping station for further
pumping to Tuzla using existing, or under the regional water supply system,
proposed transmission mains and storage talks. The bulk of the works to be
executed will then form an integrated part of the future regional water
supply system.
47.      The chemical industrial effluents, because of their composition,
create a particular problem for the Tuzla sewage collection and disposal
system.  Related industries will provide tleir own pretreatment facilities
and it has also been found economical to lay a separate interceptor to the
disposal site. In addition, comparative studies, taking into account
economic as well as operational reliability and flexibility aspects, have
been carried out on alternative solutions for sewage treatment. The most
feasible solution has been found to be combined treatment for domestic and
industrial waste with the activated sludge process for secondary treatment.
48.      In light of Tuzla's expanded future heating requirements and the
need to improve air quality in the region, and based on the investigation
of alternative heating systems, the conclusion was reached to utilize the
hot water available at the thermal power plant for industrial and heating
purposes. Hot water will be circulated through a primary pipeline system,
and the heat will be transferred at sub-stations through heat exchangers to
water circulated in secondary pipeline systems serving groups of apartment
buildings and houses.
49.      While the master plan for the regional water supply system would
together with existing capacity, be sufficient to meet projected water
demand through the year 2010, the water source and treatment works to be
extended under the project will enable coverage of projected average water
demand for Tuzla, Lukavac and Zivinice to about the year 1987. Sewage
collectors under the project would be sufficient for projected flows to



- 16 -
2005, while an additional extension to the sewage treatment works would be
required by about 1995. The primary pipeline system for the central
heating will be sufficient to 2005 while substations and secondary pipeline
system will be extended gradually. The latter extension under the project
would correspond to 50% of the projected heating demand.
50.      The project would include the following components:
For Water Supply: development of a first stage of a regional
water supply system including (a) supply and intallation of a
pumping plant for the groundwater source at Spreca Polje; (b)
construction of a treatment plant for iron and manganese removal;
(c) supply and installation of a pumping plant for treated water;
(d) construction of transmission mains between Spreca Polje and
Tuzla (about 15 kilometers) and extension of the distribution
system in Tuzla; (e) construction of a tunnel; (f) construction of
a balancing reservoir.
For Sewerage: (a) construction of an interceptor and extension of
the sewerage system; (b) construction of sewage treatment works
for secondary treatment.
For Central Heating: (a) construction of primary and secondary
mains; (b) equipment for about 90 substations; (c) supply and
installation of a hot water pumping plant.
In addition the project will provide for:   (a) operation and maintenance
equipment for the water supply, sewerage and central heating systems, and
for a sanitary landfill; (b) consultant assistance for construction
supervision and for next stage water supply system development; and
(c) tariff study and training mainly in the areas of operation and
maintenance. The project would be executed during the period 1983-1987.
Project Cost and Financing
51.      Estimated costs for the proposed project are US$64.4 million
equivalent including taxes and import duties of about $7.5 million and
including interest during construction and the front end fee on the Bank
loan. The estimated foreign exchange cost is $30.0 million equivalent
which represents about 46% of total project costs. The costs of the
principal components are given in the Loan and Project Summary and are
based on December 1982 prices. Physical contingencies have been assumed to
vary between 8 and 15 percent for various components with an average of
about 11 percent. The price contingencies for both civil works and
material and equipment when calculated in US Dollars have been estimated
assuming annual price increases of 7.5 percent for 1983-1985 and 6 percent
thereafter, and when calculated in Dinars, 20 percent for 1983, 15 percent
for 1984 and 13 percent thereafter. The costs for project management and
construction supervision and for engineering for subsequent stage water
supply development are estimated at about US$6.1 million equivalent and



- 17 -
would cover about 800 and 130 man-months for local and foreign consultants
respectively. These estimates are based on average total cost per
man-month of US$2,000 equivalent for local, and US$10,000 equivalent for
foreign consultants (1982 price level) incLuding subsistence allowances.
52.      The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 million would cover the
project's foreign exchange requirements, including a front-end fee of
US$0.5 million and interest during construction totalling US$4.1 million.
It would be made to KOMPRED for 15 years including 3 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate with the guarantee of the Federal
Government.
53.      Agreement was also reached with the Yugoslav authorities that in
addition to the Bank loan, financing for local costs will be provided
through: (a) internal cash generation, which Tuzla's municipal assembly
has approved; (b) grants and contributions which have been approved by the
Republican Assembly and form part of separate agreements which have been
provided to the Bank; and (c) local bank loans and advances, with terms for
such credit to carry a 12-year maturity ircluding 3 years grace at the
prevailing commercial interest rate (Loan Agreement, preamble paragraphs
(D) and (E)). Privredna Banka Sarajevo hc.s agreed to provide KOMPRED with:
(a) the local loans required for project iinancing; (b) financing of cost
overruns; and (c) additional borrowings whkich might be required if funds
generated internally through planned tarii'f increases do not materialize
due to Government restrictions on price and tariff increases. Confirmation
to this effect was provided to the Bank by the Yugoslav authorities during
negotiations.
Implementing and Operating Agency
54.      In the Tuzla municipal structure, the Town Assembly is the central
authority with delegates elected from various activities in the society.
The Executive Council is the executive arm of the Town Assembly, while the
Municipal Institute for Construction - Tuzla (ZAVOD) is responsible for the
coordination of all development activities in the municipality. The
Borrower, the Regional Work Organization, Tuzla, (KOMPRED) is an umbrella
organization functioning as an autonomous entity. It reports to the
Executive Council of Tuzla, and its budget and tariffs are approved by the
Town Assembly.
55.      The highest decision-making body for KOMPRED is the Workers'
Council, which is elected by the Assembly of Workers. This Council elects
the Executive Board and appoints the General Manager who is responsible for
the day-to-day operation of the enterprise. The General Manager serves for
a period of four years and may be reappointed for one additional four-year
term.
56.      The KOMPRED organizational structure, as established on January 1,
1978, is composed of one administrative working community and seven



- 18 -
financially and functionally independent operating entities called Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALS), dealing with: (i) water supply
and sewerage; (ii) central heating; (iii) construction; (iv) community
services; (v) insect and rodent control; (vi) street cleaning and solid
waste; and (vii) parks and public places. BOALS (i) and (ii) have units
for project planning and design, works operation and maintenance and
revenue collection. The function of sewage disposal would be integrated
under (i). The administrative working community handles such matters as
personnel, payroll, billing and legal questions for all of the BOALS. For
the implementation of the project, another Working Community, Development
and Investments - Tuzla for project management has been established within
KOMPRED containing separate units for water supply, sewage disposal and
central heating. Its major functions would be, with consultant assistance,
to review tender documents, enter into contracts, and to coordinate and
manage the construction supervision and equipment supply and installation.
Project Implementation
57.      The present status of project preparation is as follows:  (a)
final engineering design is being prepared for the water supply component
and will be completed early in 1983; (b) final engineering design and
tender documents have been prepared for the sewage interceptors and for the
main part oL the central heating system; (c) engineering design and tender
documents for equipment supply and civil works have been prepared for the
sewage treatment works.
58.      KOMPRED will be responsible for project implementation and for
operation and maintenance of the water supply, sewerage, sewage disposal
and central heating systems. Water distribution and the sewerage network
systems in the six municipalities would be the responsibility of the
respective municipalities. KOMPRED will during project implementation be
assisted by engineering consultants for: (i) tender evaluation and
preparation of contract documents; (ii) review of contractors drawings;
(iii) finalization of designs for water supply; and (iv) supervision of
construction works and material and equipment supply and installation.  The
consulting services would be provided by (a) the Municipal Institute for
Development, Tuzla (ZAVOD) for the central heating component; and (b) local
consultants for the water supply and sewage disposal components with
foreign consultant assistance. KOMPRED's own staff would supervise the
construction works for the interceptors. For the central heating component
ZAVOD has already been appointed, while for the water supply and sewage
disposal components a contract would be entered into under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
59.      KOMPRED would appoint a local consultant to be supported by a
foreign consultant for subsequent stage water supply development under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The consultant work to be
reviewed by the Bank would include (i) elaboration of a master plan for



- 19 -
industrial water supply in the Tuzla area; (ii) updating of the master plan
for the Krivaja river water source development; and (iii) final engineering
with preparation of tender documents with related field investigations.
Such assurances were obtained from KOMPREE at loan negotiations (KOMPRED,
draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). All consultants to the project
will be employed in accordance with the Bank "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants".
Procurement
60.      Equipment supply contracts estimated to cost more than US$350,000
and civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$1,000,000 will be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. Other equipment supply and civil works contracts
with an aggregate cost of US$2,500,000 and US$6,000,000 respectively would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory. Contracts to be subject to ICB would represent about
85 percent of total project costs. For meterial and equipment procured
under ICB a domestic preference of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever
is lower would be used for purposes of bic evaluation.
61.      It is anticipated that foreign sL.ppliers will be awarded the
contracts for the water supply and sewage treatment plants. For other
project components, experience has shown that Yugoslav suppliers and
contractors are extremely competitive and may win most of the contracts.
Disbursements
62.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a five and a half year
period with the proceeds disbursed as follows; (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 70 percent of local expenditures for mechanical,
electrical and other equipment, including supplies and installation; (ii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 30 percent of local expenditures
tor civil works; and (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditure and 40
percent of local expenditures for consultant services and training. The
Tuzla central heating system is urgently required for the 1983/84 heating
season, which has necessitated advance contracting for primary mains (civil
works and equipment) and sub-stations (equipment). Procurement has
proceeded according to Bank Procurement Guidelines. Retroactive financing
to April 1982 is proposed to cover these activities for an amount of up to
US$3 million equivalent which would also cover foreign consultant
assistance for an amount of up to US$50,000 equivalent.
Accounts
63.      KOMPRED uses the standard Yugoslav chart of accounts and financial
statement formats. While certain accounting treatments under the Yugoslav
system are different from commonly accepted treatments in international
practice, transformation of the financial data to the format used by the
Bank for public utility analysis is relatLvely straightforward. KOMPRED



- 20 -
has computerized all accounting activities and maintains separate internal
accounts to segregate revenues and expenditures among its seven operating
BOALS, and has a basis for distributing the common administrative costs,
which is satisfactory to the Bank. KOMPRED has already established
separate accounts to segregate the project expenditures from those incurred
by KOMPRED's other BOALS. It was agreed at negotiations that KOMPRED will
maintain its accounts in sufficient detail and will segregate its accounts
for the project activities from other accounts (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01).
Audit
64.      KOMPRED's financial statements are subject to the standard audit
by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). KOMPRED has requested the special
auditing group of the SDK to be included in its special audit program from
1982 onward. The audit under this program is performed in accordance with
internationally accepted standards. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that KOMPRED will prepare annual statements in the accepted
public utilities format for its consolidated operations and for the water
suppiy/sewerage and central heating BOALS, and will have these statements
audited by SDK. It was also agreed that the audited statements will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year;
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Tariffs and Cost Recovery
65.      KOMPRED's two project related BOALS, for Water Supply/Sewerage
and Central Heating, derive their revenues primarily from tariffs which are
authorized by the Town Assembly of Tuzla. KOMPRED's past tariff and charge
increases in these BOALS have been related to the unit cost of providing
the service or to the financial needs of the service. Such increases have
averaged 25 percent per year since 1976 which have exceeded inflation, and
as an exception, water tariffs in 1980 were increased by 80 percent to
cover new debt service obligations. Additional tariff increases, and/or
other charges, were implemented in October 1981 which will meet the
conditions of the revenue covenant for 1983. Outstanding receivables for
water supply and sewerage represent less than one month's equivalent sales
which is considered very satisfactory, while the same performance applies
to receivables for central heating. During the project implementation
period, subject to the lifting of the Federal Government's price freeze,
tariffs approved in November 1982 by the Tuzla authorities are to increase
rapidly in nominal terms, adequate to cover all operating costs, debt
service and increases to working capital. In real terms, the water supply
and sewerage tariff increases would be substantial (71.3 and 128.9 percent
respectively) while the central heating tariff rates would decline
slightly, because of increased volume in services and because the proposed
central heating system will operate at a lower unit cost than does the
existing system. Sewerage tariff increases will primarily cover the costs
associated with the treatment plant. The projected tariffs are within the
paying capacity of consumers in the project area.



- 21 -
66.      It was agreed during negotiations that beginning in 1983, KOMPRED
will implement tariffs and other charges to provide adequate funds to
cover: (i) operational and maintenance expenditures including taxes and
other contributions required by law but excluding depreciation; (ii) all
interest and other charges on debt and principal repayments or
depreciation, whichever is higher; (iii) all increases to working capital;
and (iv) adequate financing for subsequent years investments in the project
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.05 (a)). This financial discipline would be
monitored through annual reviews. Agreement was also reached that the two
project related BOALS would three months before the beginning of each
fiscal year provide the Bank with copies of their proposed budget for such
fiscal year and financial projections for the following two years as well
as their proposed tariff actions (Loan AgrEement, Section 5.05 (b)).
67.      Tuzla's present tariff structure indicates a certain amount of
cross subsidization. Because all tariffs z.re fixed irrespective of the
quantities used, however, a block tariff structure should be considered to
induce water conservation. For this purpoe.e, it was agreed at negotiations
that a tariff study to be carried out in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank will commence by March 1, 1984 with recommendations
to be implemented by January 1, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
68.      For the project related BOALS, the debt equity ratios will peak in
1984. The peaking in central heating and water supply results from much of
the project cost being completed in 1983, thus requiring debt financing
early in the project cycle. Debt service however, peaks in 1988, and
revenue coverage is forecast to be 1.9 for the water supply/sewerage BOAL
and 1.3 for the central heating BOAL. It was agreed during negotiations
that the project related BOALS wouald not, during the project implementation
period, incur any medium or long-term debt, other than for carrying out the
project, without the Bank's prior agreemen: (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.06). KOMPRED also agreed that the financial operations of the
non-project related BOALS will not be allowed to affect the financial
viability of the two project-related BOALS (Loan Agreement, Section 5.07).
Incremental Costs
69.      The average long-term incremental costs in 1982 prices have been
calculated separately for water supply, sewerage, and central heating by
using a discount rate of 10 percent which is appropriate for Yugoslavia.
The calculation for the water supply and sewerage collection and disposal
systems, which take into account production, distribution, collection and
disposal facilities through 2010, shows that beginning in 1987, average
revenues would be about 71 percent of the average long-term incremental
costs and commercial industrial revenues about 124 percent of the average
long-term incremental cost. This does not, however, take into account the
substantial voluntary contributions which both the citizens and the
enterprises will be making towards project financing.  The tariff study to
be carried out under the project will inter alia result in the adoption of
progressive tariffs. The higher block of the new tariff scheduile would be



- 22 -
at least equal to the average long-term incremental cost. Upon completion
of the project, revenues from the approved tariffs for central heating
would be about 46 percent higher than the average long-term incremental
cost while the commercial/industrial tariff revenues would exceed it by
about 133 percent. The high central heating tariffs are intended to
generate funds for future investments.
Training
70.      Training under the project would concentrate on strengthening the
operational capacity particularly for water and sewage treatment works and
central heating systems. It will involve training of about 35 additional
staff members. Training would be provided by equipment suppliers, who
would conduct pertinent training courses for selected staff members. Staff
would also participate in equipment installation and obtain on-the-job
training during the commissioning periods.
Project Benefits
71.      The merits and justification of the project may be summarized as
follows: (i) it would alleviate the problem of water shortage in the Tuzla
Municipality and enable industrial development to proceed as planned; (ii)
it would constitute a first step in the reduction of river pollution; (iii)
it will improve health standards through reduced air pollution and
consequently contribute to better living conditions; (iv) the project
components are feasible first phases of respective master plans and are
technically and economically the least cost solutions; (v) it would
contribute to strengthening the implementing agency and its cost recovery
procedures; and (vi) during the construction period, the project will
provide about 2,500 man-years of local employment. The investment costs
per capita in current terms calculated for the 1987 population are US$88.0
equivalent for water supply, US$129.0 for sewage disposal, and US$171.0 for
central heating, which are considered reasonable.
72.      The internal rate of return for the water supply and central
heating components have been calculated using revenues and contributions as
a minimum measure of the economic benefits, a process which excludes the
additional social, health and economic benefits to be derived under the
project. The rate of return on the water supply component is 10.9
percent. An increase in construction costs of 10 percent and a reduction
in demand of 10 percent would reduce the rate to about 8.8 percent. For
the central heating component, the rate of return is 13.1 percent. Since
this component has major elements already under contract, the sensitivity
analysis used was a 5 percent increase in construction costs with a 10
percent decrease in demand, resulting in a rate of return of 9.2 percent.
Risks
73.      All necessary actions have been or will be taken for the timely
completion of the project, such as thorough project preparation with soil
investigations, the establishment of project monitoring and coordinating



- 23 -
functions and the appointment of qualified staff or consultants for project
management and construction supervision. These actions will minimize risks
of delay in implementation, and the cost overruns normally associated with
any large civil works undertaking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT' AND AUTHORITY
74.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Regional Work
Organization (KOMPRED), Tuzla, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
75.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 1iof 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                             REFERENCE CKOUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
AREA (THOUSASID Sq. EM.)                                                                    -  W:;T  RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             25 .8                                       HOST RECENT            MIDDLE INClrME          INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      142.4                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE              MARXET ECONDMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      380.0        840.0    2620.0                   2323.9                    10328.2
ENERGY CONSS'MPTION PER CAPITA
(KILDLCAmS OF COAL EQUIVALEST)          932.1       1604.5    2414.9                   2107.4                     7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POULATION, MID-YEAR (THOLSANDS)    18402.0        20371.0   22328.0
URBAN PUPUILATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    27.9          34.8      42.3                     47.9                       78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              28.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPLLATION IS REACHED                       2065
POPULATION DENS STY
PER SQ. KM.                            71.9         79.6      86.5                     83.3                      138.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTLRAL LAND         124.2        139.6     155.5                    155.4                      509.7
POPUILATON ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              30.5         27.4      24.6                     31.1                       22.7
15-64 YRS.                              63.2         64.8      66.5                     61.2                       65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        6.3          7.8        8.9                     7.7                       11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.2          1.0       0.9                      1.6                        0.8
LRSAN                                   3.6          3.2        2.9                     3.5                        1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          23.5         19.0       17.0                    23.6                       14.5
CrRUDE DEATH NATE (PER THOUSAND)         10.0          9.0        9.0                     9.2                        9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   1.4          1.3        1.1                     1.6                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRlED WOMEN)         ..         59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               85.0         93.0     117.0                    116.0                      111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQULREEHNTS)                       128.1       130.0      135.5/c                  125.1                     130.8
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)               95.5         93.3     1oo.97c                   92.7                       97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            28.6        31.7       39.2/_                   35.9                      61.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          11.2          4.3       2.0                      9.2                        0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY NT BRRTH (YEARS)         63.2         66.7       70.5                    67.6                       73.8
INFANT SORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                92.0         53.1      32.5                     65.1                       11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         33.6
URBAN                                  42.4         62.0
RURAL                                    ..         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
UR8AN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               1616.2       1000.1     762.4/c                 1105.4                      620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           632.6/d      406.4     361.9/c                  634.4                      246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 185.5/d      177.1     165.8/.                  286.8                      122.0
UhMAN                                  91.4/if      95.7     II1.7/e .                192.0                     140.6
RURAL                                1035.5/d    1603.9    1835.3/e
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEI                .. -       17.3       18.2/e                  20.0                       17.7
HOUSlNG
AVERACE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.0          3.8       3.8/e
URBAN                                   3.3          3.2       3.3/..
RURAL                                   4.4          4.3       4.1/..
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOrAL                                   1.6          1.4
URdBAN                                  1.7          1.3
RURAL                                   1.5          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRIClTY (PEACENT
OF UMELLINAN)
TOTAL                                  54.5         87.9
CRA5N                                  92.7         98.4
KUJYAL                                 36.1         80.1



- 25 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (VEIGHTED AV FRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIAL1ZED
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0        106.0       99.0                   102.4                      101.7
MALE                 113.0        108.0      99.0                    107.1                     103.9
FEMALE               108.0        103.0      98.0                     99.0                     103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 58.0         69.0       82.0                    60.2                       88.4
MALE                  63.0         78.0      86.0                     66.4                      83.4
FEMALE                53.0         58.0      78.0                     54.0                      84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..          26.4       20.5                     31.6                      18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         27.1       24.9                    25.8                       20.3
SECONDARY                          13.0         22.4       18.9                    22.2                       16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         77.0        83.5       85.0/f                   75.9                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         35.4       88.5/c                  51.0                      338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         84.9        165.9      209.3                   157.2                     1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         88.3      189.2                   123.7                      403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   70.3        85.3      103.1                   112.3                      331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           4.5        3.3                     4.0                        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8302.0       8837.7/   9422.2/g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.0         35.9       36.0                    36.6                       36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.0         31.0       29.0                    38.7                        6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         23.0       35.0                    25.9                       37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.1         43.4       42.2                    44.5                       45.4
MALE                                  60.0        56.6       54.8                    56.3                       58.9
FEMALE                               30.9         30.6       30.0                    32.8                       32.4
ECONOMIC DEPEN'DENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8        0.8                     0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/h        15.11i    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP hOUSEhOLDS  41.5/h        41.471    38.7                        ..                      43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97/h        6.671      6.6                      ..5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.O7h        18.47T    18.7                       *-                       16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..      530.0                   406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
HNo  applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted srlthmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962; /e 1976; /f 1975; /I Including migrants workers abroad; /h 1963; Li 1968.
May, 1982



- 26-                                                                             Pd. -D'
lipeft:NiTD   OF 900101. INDICATOKS                                                               Pag-e    3of   6
Aoccur   &lho   tnt  late ott drov  feo. .ourIst gen.Ceelty  "rodat  the at *ob     .tutead  nini.it enod  tt  be  Coe   hat they -Y  -to  be intr-
net l-n, y ooparf..tII  betou... of aleth  a  of1 seanoardieed definittone  end Con...e oPI.  .   p byifferee-  ctt-L. t- tClteo    h. data.  Th. date are,tn
tba.e.ucf   t   ecreoder-o a-.td,Idioeted., end oh-ereunr .ee  ceta. aJo, fifferenoes batecet routrte.o
Iihfe                                                         E         ..rho r -ernc    group .. or   I  h   eectcygopo   oeob.jeo  co ry,~ and ...u.outr  .roop nu   ooda   ioe   nrg  ante      onr   ru
of the aol) .Ot cocntry  ratonpo ron    'dilh Ioo.  Ottrtoren"   rou  ofe.Oa.      IneecNorhCOror  on  fldl   ee   eoecebteo   nne
tct;,rno tf otWLoc .  In the neenoc    ,rp Oc.I tI "I        eft   ntppltt  otig,,teh a. th..           tse ....ta.n todicetonan  th-n  only o
_me    I AntonoItI    on  anoa toe contY and reference grou..P
kRfA  OCOoc.... td te.)                                                                           Porolation cPr HtInentn1 ted -tnl  s          ,ad  .rurl- pucta  (wtotl,
tot - tt  ...fu ear-    r-piaiA  lund .r.. ..td LInI ot  -ct...; 1979 dane.                   Irtn, -rd nuna1) divided by their repenie  uete  ci Aespie Lt,, d.
dOOlrt -ru  - et loneif  eriultral   rc  ted nnporrul  urperanc ulyuracelii  o pblicandpriategeneal  nd  pt -ol aid  eepna                                 d enCne
by  teL  Itee  oepyli.tEneblieftne   proiding peInompeLly  -on-
tOt PER Icqlt  'NSs) - CP Pun euplto .te-tlan         acr.   n    tctpin.C uL-                      otu1 tuft tnot Lno.cd.  tota  heapitl fonS                e  icuehisItk
2c.cec o  tau  conerelr nhod aeWnnld herickAle    980cee    90                              o   eic   anf   o   eettl 1melted  by    pfyaIca   boa byI
0101100r35n.0.PIv-cat...vonen o  i   oertuce . og  rote                                       1Iet ocr_ te  cebar.   htuyituc  ncud   hf-pIiniu!uneti'entl
'20 .201cc. -,rrccc ...ra..rcI ju   natdo,   otrtdgutisl0e-d runl.  h-iplecli, lod-                                      nrue  ho.noftol tod ondIbl -00 tonenLo
rocciitn I  raatculeouatt_.   ccc                    90 1 I970, 00  107                     1nnene   SpeocaiteCo  oII. itoh ani ir-loe   nl   odrOta
2000                                                                 o.leleu acne oe ~~~~~~~~~~Pr NOed tul ted - loca  nuie- of  laoetee  Co   t  o  d tehburoc
icnopitala dictdod by toe toero  hod..
P.'1c21  00  VITAL F7TtflTIlS
tro.Ponr-utcc, MId-Yc-  (troo..n.. -.  ieo  July io 1960, 1970, ocd 1980                  Hitbifoc
dli Itfnt telloot les ot  roan aea. ta  offlet coperoftility If date                 obo cne Ir-ic e-Ite.  A boorder or lodger say or ey trot ne totodedi
.tt  c..o.nee   109, 1070, and 1960 ou.,-                                                      the heueeheld for snalenoni- prete
yP.0lop .r..cc.uc                                                                         Aooen1P.evtr oferoe nernonetot  -.utee, end roe1                     -annevn
Pc.louo  vver2000 - lCcnancpoplaIo  yn       .ooe  r  tboed on 1990                    baIfpnospe   oet   l  ure,adrrl oceuptod co-otuien
itlpopultlm   o  09   e    ead their sentuilty coo fertilit1y rene.                       delln.          r_eeolni_p.  Dn_lllage exlude nee_pIrae.    et.       nn    i
Irjcltn MPenoubi   fer" "rn,Iy reee Copis  if trore aIniaacu-                              ....oopied Par..
Ing  tIe  -PopeC-eY en birth lnoreeebg  in9          on y'ipe-e -ita cocoa                 Acreect  itnn t ElI iri  preree  of in.le.)l   -aa,oban, cod cr-l -
leo-  . coo feeat  tote oup- tany  nobliL.Lng an77. , eee    The yard-                       leonineLtoe   doal lin, nIt  eletrotIa liningqatr cepreef
at eraw fun tenil ty rota aloe hene tbree hd1e a.ing decline 10                              if CoCIL, oben, andi tonal deeIltig   reeectnl
f-rvllicy  -lorotg  co IIoon  level aid peeR  tasty PI-nniog perfatae
..  oocytace  ace.ugnI       d one of- I  tbh'eIacoti       onsI u..f n-reIlcy          EDUhCAhTION
and fbrntIln trnnda. foyro)nlnporpocee.                                                    Adotenad eorolienntacu
counlinorycirctuntunlouetonliuuny yPu.l.anon there,.  noglt tn                            na~ehuo  - total, talt end feeLn - Crat  to. l,.              ao.cd..Iat
ore  bleot runeCeno   t hnt deaeh nreC. . ad aleo tnCteerutcI- e                                 oolsn f elI  Idi on tot priary  leve  a a p.r..teei: f reeno
maIne  inonco.  Tht  cc eonle-e  only after  elonlocay  -oae  Oe-l coeti                   prcety ana-g  p-oan           -aIvreln  n          e   vhildnen eged 6-11
ro1i-aeattee  of unun  -te  reyr-dur t o  rec, nola nIh olrl cu Ian  nu  edjuated fr differen  lengnha of prti-y eue  etm
20000c   000. eta oh. rae of uvLtu  of farnilitoy race nu  .eya--                      (ivondardy tofooh-     tl tale cod fecele  - Cenoaned ce OCuecaeoar
notc  ..co,.                                                    odvontan requtree an leeen~~~...  fn.. yara If aprndproetry lnentco tIIn
I-ca Ia tomat  OcctOott  -e  td -               yhepen 0r   ecteay poplanlo                       pronleegetoal  coIiea,o  cechn   rto.ingpi.nucio,t  Ian popln
olca aol. cc oreovod.                                                   cetal_.ly of 1  to 17 years of oge   onrepcden         ous   are   eeal
ureai   1960. 1970 ono 1979 tebC.                                                         hotcicotocl  IndaniaL.L ... other progret   W   ieet   ee
9a o.c. lorleIfonal led.- Coepuned eebov   foreronuo   adanl   re  dpyutauc%  of  -.ctdry teaaneteL-e-
ioy jOO.17   n    4197  dtn.                                                        PtclI-tn..ch-r rai      rtr.ad  eedrn-tnLeuet  aoidI
P    c'c11   Al,Iroctr  Iaeonn-     Childree  (f-I4 yeersl , tokio e-c. 110-                prOary otd  -aoder4  M I.el  dtNdetft bY uteo-  or ceobs           CItLro
(Ayore .            ln r ed (65 yaerc a. nover) -ce     . rretneca of eu.-yor popa-             cureeedtI      lcee
lonoon;I- 1990. 190  and 1990        I..        . I&.h  ..    L-LI date                          bel tin   reco rat   (crtl - Li.1 PeIn aul.&  (cit  torAdadene
i..r.cc latti 9ur0 1960-70.   -4 1970, c0d                                                              C.1970-..90t..    t-e   -.-Ir..-
P ecL acti Ke  -  Irz IhIgte tIne -en   - o rb - -  an    P.e go nn   ...r if   ..bc  hop. C- .lW.l
h0r neloOui   e         -tceec    - 1oca  deanhe yPr onoceed  if ncd1-yc                  Rit  Rrlvn  trer!-   t-hoAldlouaeo               0  ny"ee o  ecf     orefor r.di'
viclr o;tol.17.cd19 e.                                                                    boeoan  0              Igtee  pfl  peChoeeed of ncPution  eclne;a
Ornoral ocyidoctis perld coct tf     ilece    "pIo og-ePenILc  fa-                      eennn  in.L  effect; dote for Ceeee  y.ero ay u-  becarabieelor
r      .t.rt ..tea toy I te-yua   V=ctragee enate  In  ind  19g70. ano    . 1980        noe  tonrteecboliafed  IL-c- Iiet.
Enelt  Otnnn -tntere. vn-oa tth-oacl-n,rulon   o   vtnn _O Oenetven..Into-tftceceend neaat                                               - TV o-e-en  fon broadlee  to 
laitlr ?taooIAn-leon  coorcent of earnta   `oC"a l    f- Prcnn  of aP.dt.oere   n   n  en   fe   altain  ft   eeerl   fet
pulonoodentnd prInrily to nor-ding S-.e.l 0-n.  IC i                iooader..d
F300 van oItRfTtOII                                                                                to he "danly" bf in epp..re on I...n four  L-.a  e I:.
lodet ci, Food  prrocle  n  Capite  19-71-100)   1.4ude  of Pn capioteru....                   Ccoea Oao     teneo  ne CapIte per feu   - bea   oecheseci
10 in eclendan y.er beets.  Conedltleceorar ~~~~~~~~~~~~prftry &ono  (.-e  ecnrvcn  nod    iiotc
lrt-tc  of oer  oft hlob are   iftlt and coninnoteon-  (e.g. coffee aod
net  I   .r... ldud).  Per t   ,Pvo-oc.. of e..h   -tono   L. beet  on                     LAM00 rotC!
-ai-nl o-enan  pndCo.r price atehne; 1961-65, 1970  . ad 1960 dena.                          Tone1 Lcnor Forc-tesee   -ooooel  acioe peroc.-  lnla
Pen coote eunir of  alorte   (PPrn-e Ifc   ..'.eontneeoCl -    "ted tone                  cree- ooe   n   ucelpd         Wneoldlotbcetvegtden.e
-nrgy eqoVl-na     ci te  food euppl e   viel   nccnyprcpn                                       oeteprlto   of ciee.orit                          nc.rotcrero    r
P_r ..etc-ltlee uaed It teed  nr .eeo,bcdlcecI   i               Lrfa It. Poqte                  stuIueIecni     ao   oc   Ce1mb    eetr,hnnn   n
ebP  are se:t1 bate id.b 990 beck d on, ..pfsalegtcl ved    fnrton.d      at-fnnn   cpotg    Itnllnrtre   iO   1370 one..P                                       196   c
oncutte nurao   nteotnd                e dn       rni  content-of pio cup-ta-F1ni.dcy t                    p-n... lae(tn.t -L I  tonal, al, n tnxtn-Fct  ic 1 tr         ni
ne     I    bpy  ffn   er  o .   t Wrrl  of1feed Ic defi-,4td eectoe    a                connp  ae   racw            d ee. ccI, ale   an...    ec    nrtoe.c
qooancfr letr       nie  salee   b  Ot  rndefre"l.paonnneofnnl,aean   eelCopceio   foI   ncraeclen
ttoenre o  6-17 g96s 6f ocoe  proncto9 pe deyad  0grso  adna   n                                1960, 1970 . ad 199zOto.ttseefcc   , ld    atcpto    a
P      pulse  ro.i. oI  f ofotb 10are     ftod be enPIwet           I prbt - tttunn-p.          rfecn eg -ee  erctn   of 096. yPalatinn. en -               cgtI.n
-ra..ore   ba   ona P.ne  of. 70 ecpl of nfte  pronotoand 20 area oftnR.ae    r   re   atoieara
ovia  LprIIIaea  aecg  tao   ihedarIbypoUS edD            b PI Ad. 1f th  Thir-                     P _asloDepedenc batto -1 Rati  of  .popalelo  coderf .15 and Of atd coe
Col   vdSoe:  9t-5   90sd  97dn.t   h  o9oul luho t19
otned troe. iouaIc andh puee  In. erase per d,ey;        11-hO  1970Tco  197. Pdat.        1908 O tILeeSttO                '
-bI. one     -    .t-   -.IIf 5eocft   -ane         pr.no.eed) -  ne23 d-ate  arE Iooct  co-neCeea               frvnr-tce (both . In  ahad tct-herce  o   cn
csrop-0yee  nol chiLde   Ithi. age grop,p for seen deelptocuv                             percen t. rihen  10 percen.t, poo-e  20 Perr...n. a.d p--non40pr--o
onto. danaterloso  free  ife  cobleao 1960. 1970 and l9t0 dae.                           of. booho1de.
at1 . r n..... 6..   1970 and1990yar.   flfa-oe,                                              r     .  - ortol  be  1 Idetren   nlcIh. pvv   i-esf e cuco.     plryI-.
Icleor Ournatto nan e loi ohoteand) -Aucoci a Ic I. of...f.o.tider one pea       Entceecd Abeotut  Poosntn [n-c   La          U0$ It, .epi,.)       ..eo  too rood..
of oge.0  ttr. tnhlveblnnc  06. 197 ltd   960 lena.                                            nitit  p             -naAno   ee  ie-  Ln    _ coven hee   htoehtetetnh     c
tocnee 0-0 dae caner Inenren of nooulecIon  -  ou    re.  an.rra.-Iue-N               rtICnrln to llp  cdeqraa   diet plue tece...lel -o-fond .qiena              o
eetore-pply(lrae    tneta ufas                 htre  or ootrraCed b-n -uurcudee              lentand O n    Pecento Intoeb Level (1SS pr coic .-o e  and rurl
at oen tee pcteled Snoo     I.ylig.  an   attn   eAe   e                     trd  trlceve povrryio   level In61 on-           Ie    f ceeePer -artoa
cenetleed at aing v-tlo re-nteacico   onbon    vrrl1ne                                  utcc Ponolctoche-        c C.otc Ponrn.   bon  evl eivet
onavcbleoc-eee   -indinlatlatrhoelh   toatnereeefet - on--hld                               on     rartet  tre-rr  ofpouY."norato   ral1' ^ure.co
Acnu.otoone lcoti ytPenef          -co    Ifn lev-rda.7  fonan.an  tul   -
ov   eae ,crrhy-e-b-rn   eyeea or ehe  -e  of pit prtoiee cod  te--
yooecnonPhyeco   -. Pp~Ital-n dioddd by nocion of patalgphnt-                                                                Eco...u  endIt. ..    Date Dioroco
cln... queltfid Iron e ediral ec      -la    1-tnitety tene.L                                                                 lunni   olpet  cu  Pr)e   ot    t -nto
-ouetoc Ot-noor PerCe  - Poptlctino divtdod by ca,benI if p enetgty 1962
ale  and feale orauan   cui... .ennnvre    ro IICal nuCae and
vuelg eelela



- 27 -                                                              ANNEX I
Popolatron:  22.3 million  (mid-1981)                                                                                                                         Page 4 of 6
GNP Per LapLtal  2;S'2,790 (1981)
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC IND ICATORS
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million USg at                                             (.t constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                     Actual                                     ci            Projected
1980 c/          1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982      1983      1984        1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/          69,232              0.9        5.2        8.4        8.5        4.2        2.2        2.2        0.7       -2.5       1.0        2.0
Agrrcult.re                       8,516             -2.6        6.4        5.7       -5.4        5.4        0.0        1.0        5.0        0.0       2.0       2.0
Industry                         28,801             7.4         4.1        9.5        9.3        8.5        3.6        1.4       -2.7       -3.5       1.5       2.5
S-r-cces                         24,993              1.4        5.3        7.1       13.1      -2.0       -2.2         3.4       -1.0       -2.0       1.0       1.5
Consumptio-                        48,760             -3.3        0.0        9.8       13.0        3.8        0.6       -1.1        0.7       -1.7       1.2       1.8
Gross Inestment                    23,218             10.1        3.6       17.4       -3.2       12.0       -3.2       -1.2       -6.0       -8.0       2.5       3.0
Exports of GNFS                    14,053              1.1       10.4       -2,0        4.8        2.6       12.6        9.3      -10.3        0.5       6.3       6.0
Imports of GNFS                    16,799             -1.3       -8.6       16.1        2.5       12.0       -9.7       -2.6      -19.1       -4.7       9.4       6.0
Gr-s  national savI ogs            19,619             14.7       20.6        5.6       -3.1        3.4         5.8        -          -          -         -         -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 =100)              411            170        204        232        260        313        411           -
Exh-ange rate                          24.9           17.4       18.2       18.3       18.6       19.0       24.9         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (-   )                                    Average Annual Increase (%)
(at curreot prices) b/                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
1960     1970       1975      1980        1985                          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85
Gross Donestic Product a/        100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0                              5.9        6.5        5.7         0.7
Agriculture                     22.5      16.1       13.8      12.3       12.5                              3.3        2.9        2.4        2.0
Industry                       42.2       37.4      44.3      41.6        40.0                              6.3        8.3        7.0       -0.8
Serv-ces                        29.0      38.1       33.1      36.1       37.1                              6.9        4.7        4.3        0.6
Cossumpicom                       67.2      72.8       74.3      70.4       69.8                              6.5        6.9        5.4         0.2
Gross Investment                  36.5      32.3       33.5      30.5       27.8                              4.7        5.5        5.3       -2.0
Exports GNFS                      13.9      18.5       20.2      27.7       33.7                             10.2        6.7        5.7        2.4
Imports GNFS                      17.5      23.5       28.0      31.4       31.3                              9.8        6.7        2.5       -2.2
Gross oatrooal savings              32.6      29.6       25.6      28.3       28.4                              5.3        6.2         6.5         -
As % of GDP
1960      1970      1975      1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                    27.9      33.1       36.8      37.6
Total empendotores                24.1      33.2       37.2      38.2
Surplus (o) or deficit (-)         3.3       0.1       -0.4       0.6
Fore-ge finacing                  0.0       0.0       -0.4       0.0
1960-70  1970-75    1975-80  1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                6.1       6.7        5.7       0.6
GNP per capita growth rate         5.0       6.6        4.7      -0.3
ICOR                               5.4       4.6        5.8       9.1
Import elasticity                  1.6       1.0        0.5      -0.2
a/ At market pr-ces; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to ex-lusion of net indirect tames and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c/ Estimate.
EMENA 1C
January 5, 1983



- 28 -
Population:  22.3 million (mid-1981)                                                                                                                    ANNEX 1
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,790 (1981)                                                                                                                        Page 5 of 6
YUGOSIAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                    Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million US$ at                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                     Actual                                   e/               Projected
(1981)            1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                10,929              0.0       14.5       -5.3        1.0        4.4       11.2    10.6   -10.5    0.6        6.0      6.0
Primary a/                        1,940            -3.1        16.6        3.9        1.5        5.6        2.5   -10.7   -11.0    0.0        2.0      2.0
Manufactures b/                   8,989             0.4        13.9       -8.8        0.8        4.0       14.1    16.4   -10.0    1.0        8.0      8.0
Merchandise Imports                15,757             -2.8       -6.5       18.5        3.8       18.8      -13.9    -4.9   -19.0   -5.4        9.4      6.0
Fond                                893           -40.9       45.8         4.3      -24.2       51.9       -3.1    -5.5   -10.0   -4.4        7.5      4.0
Petroleum c/                      3,786            -5.0        10.1       12.0       11.6       10.6       -8.2      0.0    -2.0   -0.4       8.0      5.0
Macoinery and equipment           4,360             22,3       -8.8       17.8        7.1       22.4      -23.1   -19.8   -30.0   -2.4        6.0      5.0
Others                            6,718           -11.9      -12.7        22.1        4.4       12.8       -9.3      4.3   -21.0    0.0       9.9      6.9
PRICES (1972 = 100)
Emport price index                                   172        180        202        220        253        301      331      364    393      423      453
Import price index                                  184        189        216         226        269        319     351      385    419       452      486
Terms of trade index                                  93.5       95.2       93.5       97.3       94.0       94.4    94.4    94.7   94.0    93.5    93.1
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (M)                                       Average Annual Increase (Y)
(at current prices) d/                                                (at constant 1972 prices)
1960       1970       1975       1980       1985                            1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85
Exports                                     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                              8.1        5.7        5.1        2.5
Primary a/                                49.6       29.4        19.5       22.0       16.0                               -        -1.3        6.0      -3.4
Manufactures b/                            50.4       70.6       80.5       78.0       84.0                               -         8.1        4.7       4.9
Imports                                     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                              9.0        7.4        4.1      -2.9
Food                                        9.1        7.2        5.5        7.2        8.6                               -         5.0       14.9      -1.3
Petroleum c/                                5.4       4.8        12.3       23.6        7.9                               -         8.2        7.2       2.1
Macninery and equipment                    36.8       33.2       33.9       28.0       24.6                               -         9.4        3.1      -8.2
Others                                    48.7        54.8      48.3        41.2       58.8                               -         6.0        3.5       0.0
Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with Capital             Share nf Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)             Developing Countries (Z)          Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)        Centrally Planned Economies (Z)
1965    1970      1975      1979      1965    1970    1975    1979   1965    1970    1975    1979            1965    1970    1975    1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                 40.1    53.3       34.0     40.5       17.4    13.6    16.8    19.3    0.4         0.7     2.1    11.5       42.1    32.4    47.1    40.3
Primary               61.0    70.2      54.0      55.0       9.1      8.2      8.9    14.2    0.2       0.2       1.9     5.8      29.7    21.4    35.2    30.7
Manufactures          24.0    41.9      26.0      33.5      23.8    17.2    20.0    21.6    0.6         1.0      2.1    14.2       51.6    39.9    51.9    44.9
Imports                 55.3    66.1       59.1     60.8      16.0    12.7    15.7        n.a.   0.1      0.1       0.6     n.a.    28.6    21.1    24.6    25.3
a/  SITC 0-4
bl SITC j-8
C/  SITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
'i Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
e/ Estimates. Owing to changes in the valuatiun of trade, components do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth
between 1978 and 1979 shown in next table.
EMENA IC
January 5, 1983



- 29 -
YUGOSLAVIA - 8ALANE OF PAYIENTS, IXU.NAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                            PANg.E6X f 6
(318 .illiee.)
Population:  22.3  .illio     i (mid-1981)
GNP Per Capita: US$2,790 (1981)
Indic-tor                                                                      Actual                                                                     Projected
1970        1975        1976        1977        19 8        1979      1980   1981          1982 */    1983         1984    1985
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
E.ports ef goods and services                    3,037       8,012       9,142      10,586      12,169      14,276      18,300 22,207    19,591        19,586    22,419   25,302
of w,hich:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 1,679      4,073       4,893        5,191       5,309       6,794       8,978 10,939      9,800       10,036    11,338   12,927
I.parts of goeds and services                    3,385       9,013       8,977     11,932       13,352      17,937      20,592 22,957    22,800        19,941    22.002   24,806
of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                 2,874       7,697       7,367       9,789      10,g39      14,019      15,065 15,758    12,500         12,309    14,274   16,309
Net tran.fers                                        -           -           -           -           -           -           -       -          -            -          -        -
Corre.t: account balance                           -348      -1,001         165      -1,346      -1,283     -3,661       -2,292   -750        -51         -355        -83        -4
Prtvace direct investment                            -           -           -           -           -                       -       -         -             -         -         -
MLT loans (net)                                    196         951       1,094       1,432       1,394       1,009       2,410    762        277          952        472       935
Officisl                                          18         246         213          61         128         131          59  1,097      1,083          451        222       380
pr-vate                                          178         705         881       1,371       1,266         878       2,351   -335       -806          401        270       547
Other capital bi                                    38         135         119          45         541       1,487         657    143      1,669         -347          22     -416
Change in reserves                                 114          85      -1,378        -131        -652       1,165        -775   -155      1,100         -250       -367      -
International reserves c/                          276       1,502      2,880       3,011        3,663      2,498       3,273  3,428       2,328        2,578      2,945    3   3
Of which:  Gold (official valc,tion)              51          62          62          64          69          73          78     78         78           78         78        78
Reserves as months imports                           1.0         2.0         3.8         3.0         3.3         1.7         1.9    1.8         1,1          1.6        1.9      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disborsemente                                611       1,647       2,096       2,665       2 800       2,438       4,156  3,223      2,478        3,752      2,897    3,818
Official grts                                      -           -           -           -           -           -           -      -          -            -          -         -
Concensiona1 loans                                67         134         134         159         29           13          20     12          -
DAC                                             0          71          62          66          11          11          15       8          -            _          _         _
OPEC                                            -           -           -            -          -           -            -      -          -            -          _         -
IDA                                             -           -           -           -           -           -           -       -          -            -          _         -
Other                                         675          63           72         93          18            2           5      4          -
Noc-toncen .ional loans                          573      2,037       1,962       2,506       2 671       2,425       4,136  3,211       2,478        3,752      2,897    4,423
Official report credits Al                     39         203         283          75          74          60          85  1,375           n..          -          -         -
IBRD                                           37         154         119         133         180         294         258    240         285            _          _         _
other multilateral                              -           -           -           -           8          24          36      18          -
Private                                       497       1,680       1,560       2,298       2,409       2,047       3,757  1,578           n.e.
Yuga-la- export credit (nct)                      (-37)       (-82)      (-100)      (-183)      (-106)      (-125)      (-300) (-250)    (-220)        (-210)    (-240)   (-156)
Internal debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed e/                                2,053       5,820       7,172       8,956      11,117      13,608      15,446 16,458    16,995         18,157    18,869   19,960
Official                                      854       2,327       2,792       3,085       3,410       3,662       4,552  4,982       6,492        7,163      8,057    8,855
Private                                     1,199       3,493       4,380       5,871       7,707       9,946      10,894 11,476    10,503         10,994    10,812   11,105
Undtnbursed debt                                948       2,971       2,525       4,438       3,713       3,817       2,542  3,666       3,705        3,627      3,247    3,747
Debt service if/
Total service payments                           503      1,441       1,440       1,595       1,886       2,125       2,441  3,961       4,628        4,490      4,316    4,896
Interest  /                                   128         289         302         367         578         821         995  1,750       2,150        1,800      2,131    2,014
Payments an Y expor-t                             16.6        18.0        15.8        15.6        14.9        14.9        13.3   17.8       23.6         22.9       19.2      19.4
Average interest rete  on new loans (Y)              7.1         8.1         7.1         7.4         7.7         8.0         8.4    9.2         9.6          8.9       8.2       8.4
Official                                           7.0         8.3         7.0         7.3         7.7         -           -      -          -            -          -         -
Private                                            7.5         7.5         8.6         9.3         8.7         9.5         -      -          -            -          -         -
Average maturity of new lease (years)               16.5        15.2        18.3        15.4        15.1        10.8        10.1   10.2       10.1         10.6       10.9      10.6
Official                                          18.5        16.5        10.0        15.9        15.1         -           -
Private                                           10.9        10.9         5.7         7.5         -
at EItimates.
4/  Icl.des net use of IMF credit (drawings lean repurchases), met ose of sheet-temt credi: and changes in bilateral
bs*l.nces.
c   Including gross foreign assets s. of te ercial banks.
d/  After 1980, includes borrowings guaranteed by National Bank of Yugsl-via.                                                                                  E118NA IC
e/  Internal borrowing reported in the hiato-ical balance of pay .e.ta id  net cum iisEent  wit        t- enernal debt dre,.                                    January 5, 1983
Yi  Debt service secludes amertisati-n and interest on expert .redit estended by Yugoslavia.
g/  After 1981, includes interest payments on use so I10 reof     areIMF



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
Thirty-eight Loans fully disbursed                               1,238.8
916    1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline           59.4     9.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0     2.3
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0      1.1
1360    1977   Management Organization       Multipurpose
"tMetohija"                  Water                 54.0    37.0
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka            Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries            26.0     3.1
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture
Industries           24.0     4.1
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in      Second Power
each Republic                Transmission          80.0    20.2
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka            Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0    21.4
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              100.0     9.6
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                      Roads                  80.0     0.9
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina          Hydro Power            73.0    14.5
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Third Industrial
Credit               40.0     8.8
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0     2.2



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose            Bank Undisbursed
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        5.0
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka            Fourth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit                20.0       1.9
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0      10.8
1621    1978   Privredna Banka               Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                     Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      38.5
1678    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Heze-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                 148.0      49.9
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka              Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0      40.8
1759    1979   Road Organization of          Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                   ilitation-
Highways             21.0       4.8
1768    1979   Port of Bar                   Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0      38.4
1769    1979   Railway Organization          Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                ilitation-
Railways             14.0       8.5
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka            Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0      66.1
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                125.0       88.9
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0      49.2
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0      14.6
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka            Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit              20.0       19.8
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka               Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit              10.0        5.9



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1951    1980   Investbanka                    Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0        82.6
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                34.0       30.9
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0        89.0
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture            80.0       69.8
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                       Kosovo Water Supply  41.0        33.2
2132 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial         33.0       33.0
Credit
2133 1/ 1982   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Sixth Industrial      33.0       33.0
Credit
2136 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture              35.0       35.0
2161 2/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6           34.6
Total (less cancellation)                               3,184.8   1,019.0
of which has been repaid                                 523.5
Total now outstanding                                   2,661.3
Amount sold                             9.2
of which: Amount repaid                9.2
Total now held by Bank                                  2,661.3
Total undisbursed                                                  1,019.0
1/ Declared effective on November 23, 1982.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                         Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business           Loan   Equity   Total
L970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation         -       2.0     2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                         Iadustry          12.4     0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry              9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry          16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires              12.5     2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   70.9       -       70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        CEment Plant       10.0     -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel              50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Fcod and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing         4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  PtlIp and Paper
IProducts        15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism            21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                          Machinery          18.7     -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises       30.3      -      30.3
1982   Igalo                                 Physical
Medicine
Center           15.8    -        15.8
1982   Industrija za automobilski            Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto)        & Accessories    11.0    -          11.0
Total Gross Commitments                                314.7    11.8   326.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             167.4      5.2   172.6
Total commitments held by IFC                          147.3      6.6   153.9
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                           66.6      0.8    67.4



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of September 30, 1982)
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles, poor
management, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and the Bank
eventually agreed to entrust implementation of the pipeline in Serbia to a
different borrower. The loan was divided into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Serbia are
now under construction. Practically all the bid evaluation reports for
Butangas have been approved by the Bank and contracts have been awarded. The
main component of the project left to be implemented by NGU and Butangas are
the respective telemetry and control installations.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The flood control and water quality studies are completed.
Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years behind appraisal schedule due
to foundation, design and construction problems which, however, have been
overcome. Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and
Titovo Uzice components, the remainder are nearly completed. Feasibility
studies on sewage treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been
completed. The pilot irrigation components are in place. Monitoring and
evaluation of the base line data for 1980 and 1981, prior to project
operation, has been reviewed by the Bank. Post implementation evaluation
would continue through local resources during 1983-85. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest. About 89% of the loan has already been
disbursed. Outstanding project works are expected to be completed by the
current closing date of the loan.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage collec-
tion has been satisfactorily completed and construction of the sewerage
treatment plant is underway and is also expEcted to be completed by
December, 1982.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water; US$5L..0 Million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 19,7; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progress is about two years behind schedule.
Procurement contracts for pipes larger than lm, automatic control system and
maintainance equipment are underway and it is expected that by end 1982 all
ICB contracts would have been awarded. While demonstration farm of 32 ha
involving 28 farmers has been highly successful, on-farm development is
slower than expected due to time consuming Land consolidation procedures. A
program for completion of remaining project works has been submitted to the
Bank for consideration of extension of the :losing date.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-ladustries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: Jaly 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed on schedule by December
31, 1982. The winery operations are completed and operational. Farm center
construction is complete and farm roads are nearing completion. The
completed irrigation system is supplying 2,014 ha under vineyards and
orchards. The loan is 88% disbursed. Due to high rates of local inflation
costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by about 60%.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-industry facilities have now come into force and
four of the seven sub-projects are completed with two others to be completed
by end December 1982 and the final project to be completed by June 1983.
All individual sector funds have been completed and disbursed. The loan is
83% disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission; US$80.0 Million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date; January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan is practically fully committed; however, the project is
expected to be completed with a delay of about two years and an extension of
the closing date by six months to allow full loan disbursement is under
consideration. Various studies included under the project have either been
completed or are in progress.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 Million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan is fully committed and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 72% of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Government's recent stabilization measures
however, exceptional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
consequently the closing date will be extended a second time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to disburse against purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date; September 28, 1978; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total US$ 90.4 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Processing of the proposed loan for a Sixth Yugoslav Railway
Project has been made dependent on an agreed program of actions to resolve
this problem.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All sections are now open to traffic. The loan account has been
kept open to facilitate procurement of equipment by December 1982. The
amount involved is only $0.9 million.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power:  US$73 Million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since December 1981. Full commissioning of all
generating units in these two power plants is scheduled for early 1983.
Part B, which is not financed by the Bank (Mostar Dam), however, has been
delayed due to additional studies needed on account of problems of site
geology. Construction of this dam and power plant is now planned to start
in late 1982, and completion is expected by end 1985.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 Mtillion Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan is fully committed. Di3bursements are behind appraisal
estimates mainly because of changes in the originally approved equipment
lists and often incomplete withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit
Department of the borrower Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) continues to be
weak, especially in terms of proper project appraisal and supervision. This
matter is being focussed upon through freqaent supervision. Also,
institutional improvements will be a major component of a possible new loan
to KBP.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit:  $20.0 Million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well ahead of the disbursements Expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimates. While the closing dates for
Loans 1612 and 1613 have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December
31, 1983, an extension of the closing date for Loan 1614 is still under
consideration.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 Million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date;
September 30, 1982.
Project construction has been substantially completed. The loan
account has been kept open for a few months to enable disbursements against
contracts for which commitments have been made prior to
September 30, 1982.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The financing
problem and inadequate progress in the individual sector are being resolved
and specific action programs are being worked out with the borrower and the
implementing agency.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date;  August 14, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Due to shortage of local funds, three of the borrowers (Macedonia,
Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina) have changed their programs with Bank
agreement. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily except in
the case of a section in Bosnia-Herzegovina due to technical difficulties.
The funding situation has now eased due to additional taxes on gasoline.
However, due to earlier implementation delays, project completion will be
about 18 months behind schedule. Extension of the closing date is
anticipated.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 Million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Studies on sub-surface drainage in
experimental plots are under implementation. Progress on civil works,
although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing.
Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates but are expected to improve
with progress in supply of equipment against the contracts awarded.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 Million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date; December 19, 1979;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
All contracts have been approved and project works are expected to
be completed by the original closing date.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar; US$50 Million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has shown significant improvement through
additional contracted assistance. All contracts for civil works and goods
except for cargo handling equipment are now awarded. Because of a decline
in current and anticipated traffic, the borrower will no longer procure bulk
cargo handling equipment, and the respective loan allocation is likely to be
cancelled. In order to take account of a longer than anticipated delivery
period for tugboats and cranes financed under the loan, the closing date is
likely to be extended to June 30, 1984.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 Million Loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $5.5 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as a result c,f complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980: Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 77% of the loan has been committed. With few exceptions,
most agroindustries sub-projects have beeii identified in the various
republics and are in the procurement phase. Some agroindustries in
Macedonia, Serbia and Kosovo are being implemented. The agroindustries
study has been completed. The loan is about 28% disbursed which is in line
with appraisal estimates.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank. The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
reviewed. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays, project completion will be
about 18 months behind schedule. Extension of the closing date will be
considered.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984.
Loans 1910 and 1912 are being committed rapidly while commitments
under Loans 1909 and 1911 are behind schedule. Frequent supervision of the
latter two loans is likely to result in more rapid loan commitment.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 Million Loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date; December
31, 1986.
72% of the loan proceeds are committed. Withdrawals have
commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is due to
procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds. However, progress in
physical implementation is good. In the individual sector, about 800
livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards are expected to be
completed by end 1982, while 11 of 14 agro-industrial facilities are under
construction. Five of the agro-industries are likely to be operational in
December 1982. Progress under irrigation and support services components is
unsatisfactory.  Final designs for irrigation works have now been completed
and construction is due to start soon. A detailed investment plan for
support services has been approved by the Bank and implementation will begin
soon.
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway:  $34.0 Million Loan of May 15, 1981;  Effective
Date:  November 16, 1981;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
After slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Bid invitations for four
diesel multiple units are to be issued in December 1982.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 Million Loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Contracts, as a result of ICB, have been signed for 7 of the 12
agro-industries sub-projects with an eighth on the verge of signature. The
four remaining agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into
consideration changes in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of
2,000 ha of plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to
seven social sector investors covering about 1,500 ha for vineyards and
orchards. For the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans
for 300 ha of vineyards. Ground water studies have commenced. However,
hiring of additional supervisory staff by the Borrower and processing of
sub-loans are behind schedule.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 Million Loan of
July 23, 1981; Effective Date: January 6, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Project implementation is ahead cf schedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule, and by erd April 1982, the social sector
vineyard (1,400 ha) and orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store
component (15,000 tons) were fully committEd. Feasibility studies for all 7
small scale irrigation subprojects have been completed and construction has
begun on 3 of the sub-projects.
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply: $41 Million Loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date: April 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Construction is in
progress, considerably ahead of schedule.
Loan 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Project: $33 Million Loan
Each Loans of of August 31, 1982; Effective Date:
November 23, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 23, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural Development Project: $35 Million Loan
of May 4, 1982; Effective Date:   November 23, 1982; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
This loan became effective on November 23, 1982.
Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage: $34.6 Million Loan of May 27, 1982;
Effective Date: January 14, 1983; Closing Date: September 30,
1987.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
TUZLA/LAKE OHRID REGIONS WATER SUPPLY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified by the Bank:                1980
(b)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:    2 years
(c)  Agency which prepared the Project:                   KOMPRED, assisted by
other municipal
agencies and
consultants
(d)  First presentation to the Bank                       January 1982
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission                       March 1982
(f)  Negotiation completed                                November 1982
(g)  Planned date of loan effectiveness                   June 30, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to US$3.0 million is
recommended for the construction of the central heating component (para. 62).
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) KOMPRED will segregate its accounts for the project activities
under the sub-projects from other accounts (para. 63);
(ii) KOMPRED, beginning with FY83, will provide adequate funds to cover:
(i) operational and maintenance expenditures including taxes and
other contributions required by law but excluding depreciation;
(ii) all interest and other charges on debt and principal
repayments or depreciation, whichever is higher; (iii) all
increases to working capital; and (iv) adequate financing for
subsequent year investments in the project (para. 66);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii)  KOMPRED will carry out a tariff study to commence March 1, 1984,
with recommendations to be implemented by January 1, 1985
(para. 67);
(iv)  KOMPRED's project related BOALS w:ll not, during the project
implementation period, incur any rmedium or long-term debt, other
than for carrying out the project, without the Bank's prior
agreement. KOMPRED will not permit the non-project related BOALs'
financial operations to affect the financial viability of the
project BOALs' (para. 68);
(v)  KOMPRED will, three months before the beginning of each fiscal
year, provide the Bank with the proposed budget for the two project
related BOALS for the fiscal year, and financial projections for
the following two years as well as their proposed tariff actions
(para. 66);






S  R   F  B   R   L   r i__________                                    ________IB D 653!
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE
A                  -'
r                                                                                                                                                     R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'
N   ,<AI  /     N N                                                                         K~~~~~~~~ I E    i i 
~~~~~~~TK. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       .
B A N 0   ~~~~~~'-N I
A                   K-ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"                                          K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'C-1"1W -T E~-    A                                          A                                                                             AER       SUPY          YSE
N                                                    I                                                              N                                            'ARK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIA



I                                                                                                                                                              I



AUSTRIA-        NTR 
5   A H LJ N C, A R Y  /  _        _____                                                                                                                 _____.__IBRD1    
dSLOVERIh f  <       > 's'                                                                                                                                                                                          YUGOSLAVIA
3K15<    '-  >.(    lRoMTNIA                                                                                                                                                                                    T UZLA      REG ION
t  X   nxn,a,^ 3istrRare<e                                                                                                                                                               WATER  SUPPLY  AND  ENVIRONMENTAL   PROJECT
\T    CTCL<        T '   A. t, t0S DA '/1                                                                                                                                             SEWAGE  COLLECTION  AND  DISPOSAL,AND CENTRAL
A ,  >       2\    .                                                                                                                                                                                        HEATING  L  u  se1 . qA; . . | N FiA1 4  QTGSYSTEMS
ALB                                                                                                                                               IIE. IIIE       TIIAT.111- -111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?qA 
T   ALEANAI                                                          H I   I.  A V . I   CITT T
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
:~~I    Y/ .                  A       k                  /                                                    ,, .                                      :
v//~~~~~~~~
CChC C  A,                                    T<=                                                          A                    T T   11JTAI AI_                                                                     =T
EI  TT.1  I"
*  <ST   ;-                                                   /                                                                 }]                                                                  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAAAC ATTA C AA 
\ =ATT AA A T   A
,            .r.--. AT  ACTL.:AAAAI AACAIAAAIAIA' ,' ATAAIAATAITAAAT   TAA AAT..   A..



