                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                                   Report No: ICR2592



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-92755)



                                          ON A

               EDUCATION FOR ALL FAST TRACK INITIATIVE GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.9 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                         FOR AN

                    EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                      March 22, 2013




Africa Education Sector Unit for West and Central Africa (AFTEW)
West Africa Department 1
Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective January 17, 2013)

                Currency Unit = Leone (SLL)
                   US$ 1.00 = SLL 4,300

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 – December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                             Country Assistance Strategy
CSO                             Civil Society Organizations
CSR                             Country Status Report
CCTT                            Child Centered Teaching Techniques
DP                              Development Partners
EFA-FTI                         Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
EPDF                            Education Program Development Fund
ESMF                            Environmental and Social Management
                                Framework
ESP                             Education Sector Plan
ESSF                            Education Sector Support Fund
FM                              Financial Management
GDP                             Gross Domestic Product
GER                             Gross Enrollment Rate
GIR                             Gross Intake Rate
GPE                             Global Partnership for Education
IFR                             Interim Financial Report
IPRSP                           Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISDS                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
JSS                             Junior Secondary School
LC                              Local Councils
MDG                             Millennium Development Goals
MEST                            Ministry of Education, Science and
                                Technology
MoU                             Memorandum of Understanding
PRC                             Primary Completion Rate
PDO                             Project Development Objectives
PIU                             Project Implementation Unit
PP                              Project Paper
PRSP                            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
REBEP                           Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project
WHO                             World Health Organization
Vice President:        Makhtar Diop
Country Director:      Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager:        Peter N. Materu
Project Team Leader:   Susan E. Hirshberg
ICR Team Leader:       Susan E. Hirshberg
                                                       SIERRA LEONE

                                      Education Sector Development Project
                                                  CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 8
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................... 12
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 19
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 24
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 25
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors ........................... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................... 43
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 45
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 46
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 47
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 57
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 58
  Map IBRD 33478 ...................................................................................................................... 59




                                                                   1
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Sierra Leone EFA FTI
Country:               Sierra Leone            Project Name:
                                                                         Program
Project ID:            P115782                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92755
ICR Date:              3/28/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         SIERRA LEONE
Original Total
                      USD 13.90M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 11.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 13.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process        Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review: 06/27/2008            Effectiveness:                         09/15/2008
                                                                             06/30/2010 &
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):
                                                                             12/29/2011
Approval:         09/02/2008          Mid-term Review: 05/17/2010            11/01/2010
                                      Closing:         06/30/2010            09/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                                      Rating
      Performance                                  (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                  Quality at Entry
                           No                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                       (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                     Quality of
                           Yes                                 None
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):


                                               2
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                          50
Public administration- Education                           25
Secondary education                                        25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                          100                  100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:             Makhtar Diop                        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:           Yusupha Crookes                     Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:             Peter N. Materu                     Eva Jarawan
Project Team Leader:        Susan E. Hirshberg                  Eunice Dapaah
ICR Team Leader:            Susan E. Hirshberg
ICR Primary Author:         Kirsten Majgaard, Sandra Beemer

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the project was to expand access to and improve the quality of basic education in
Sierra Leone.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The project development objective was not revised during the implementation period.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target          Formally      Actual Value
                                           Values (from           Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                             approval              Target       Completion or
                                           documents)              Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Primary School Completion Increased
Value
                                                                              76%
quantitative or   61.8%                    70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                      2010/11                             2010/11
Comments          The target was achieved. Data source is the “2010/11 School Census Report?.
(incl. %          The project supported the data analysis and publication of the school census



                                                 3
achievement)      reports.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of pupils who pass the NPSE examination
Value
quantitative or   72%                       72%                                75%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                       2010/11                           2010/11
                  Target was achieved. In an environment with rapidly rising enrollments, and
Comments
                  where the new students brought into the system on average have lower socio-
(incl. %
                  economic characteristics than those already enrolled, maintaining learning
achievement)
                  outcomes and quality at the same level is an achievement.
Indicator 3 :     Gross Enrollment Rate increases
Value
quantitative or 104%                       106%                              122%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 2008                         2010/11                           2010/11
                Indicator dropped at 12/2011 restructuring because the baseline was faulty:
Comments        school survey data collected before 2010 were later found to be highly inflated
(incl. %        and population estimates were unreliable, with no agreement on how to revise the
achievement) baseline figures.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of girls enrolled in junior secondary school
Value
quantitative or   40.9%                     43.9%               45%            45%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                       2010/11             2011/12        2010/11
Comments          Target was achieved. The project supported the government’s girls’ incentive
(incl. %          program that covers the cost of school fees for girls which encourages parents to
achievement)      send girls to school as well as keep them enrolled.
                  Number of additional classrooms built or rehabilitated at the primary level
Indicator 2 :
                  resulting from project interventions (Core Indicator)
Value
quantitative or 0                         318               285             255
Qualitative)
Date achieved                             2011              2012            2012
                Target missed, however 89% of classrooms were constructed. Upon completion
Comments
                of the project, the MOF provided the Bank with written assurances that the
(incl. %
                remaining 11% would be completed and have already provided the required
achievement)
                funding to MEST for completion.
                Number of primary teachers who receive in-service training under the
Indicator 3 :
                project.
Value           0                         1000              1000            1000



                                                  4
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                      2011                2012            2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target was achieved with all teachers trained as agreed in the project design
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of junior secondary teachers who receive in-service training
Value
quantitative or   0                         260                 260             260
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                      2011                2012            2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target was achieved with all teachers trained as agreed in the project design
achievement)
                  Number of additional qualified teachers resulting from project intervention
Indicator 5 :
                  (core indicator)
Value
quantitative or   0                         300                 1000            1000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                      2011                2012            2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target was achieved with all teachers trained as agreed in the project design
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Education Sector Annual Performance Review organized
Value
quantitative or   0                         3                   3               3
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                      2011                2012
Comments
                  Target achieved. Education Sector Annual Performance Reviews organized for
(incl. %
                  Year 1, 2 and 3.
achievement)
Indicator 7:      Learning Assessment System Framework developed
Value
quantitative or                                                 Yes             Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     2008                      2011               2012
Comments          Target achieved. The project supported the development of a learning assessment
(incl. %          framework and assessment instruments that will be further developed in the next
achievement)      Global Partnership for Education project.
                  Number of LCs which conduct fee-free awareness campaigns based on
Indicator 8:
                  findings of out-of-school study.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Indicator was dropped during 12/2011 restructuring because the activity was
(incl. %
                carried out by UNICEF in 2008 during the delay in effectiveness.
achievement)


                                                   5
Indicator 9: Number of pupils enrolled at primary level
Value
quantitative or                                                              1,194,503
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                2010/11
                Indicator dropped at 12/2011 restructuring because baseline was later found to be
Comments        highly inflated. HHS data show 956,000 students in 2007 (CWIQ), 980,000 in
(incl. %        2008 (SLDHS). This would indicate a growth in primary enrollments over the
achievement) project period.

Indicator 10: Number of new entrants into primary 1
Value
quantitative or                                                               218,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                 2010/11
                Indicator dropped at 12/2011 restructuring because baseline was later found to be
Comments        highly inflated. New entrants in grade 1 has likely dropped, reflecting a
(incl. %        stabilization of the system. HHS data show improving cohort access over the
achievement) project period.

Indicator 11: Number of teaching and learning materials that are distributed to primary
                schools
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                Indicator dropped at 12/2011 restructuring because it was not seen as measuring
Comments        improved learning. Development of a student assessment framework was added
(incl. %        as an indicator instead. A validation determined that materials purchased were
achievement) delivered and in use.

Indicator 12:     Teacher payroll and salary verification exercise completed.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments          Indicator dropped during 12/2011 restructuring because the activity was
(incl. %          undertaken with the support of other donors: in 2008 DFID began the work and it
achievement)      was continued by the African Development Bank through the present.




                                                 6
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                         IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
1     06/26/2009     Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   3.00
2     12/30/2009     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory        3.00
3     06/30/2010     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory        3.00
                     Moderately                Moderately
4     04/12/2011                                                              5.32
                     Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                     Moderately                Moderately
5     12/26/2011                                                              8.94
                     Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                     Moderately                Moderately
6     04/23/2012                                                             11.40
                     Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
7     07/31/2012     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory       11.40

H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP       in USD
                                          millions
 06/30/2010    No change   MS    MS            3.00   Extension by 18 months
                                                      Minor revisions to components,
                                                      implementation arrangements
 12/29/2011    No change   MU    MU            8.94
                                                      and results framework, and
                                                      extension by 9 months


I. Disbursement Profile




                                               7
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. Country Context. In 2003, Sierra Leone emerged from eleven years (1991-2002) of
devastating civil war and was ranked lowest on the UNDP Human Development Index out of
177 countries. The country was a post-conflict, fragile state with the need to rebuild institutions
and restart the economy. It was estimated in the 2011 WDR “Conflict, Security and
Development? that “civil conflict costs the average developing country roughly 30 years of
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, and countries in protracted crisis can fall over 20
percentage points behind in overcoming poverty?. In 2003/04, 70 percent of the population fell
below the poverty line and poverty was heavily concentrated in the rural areas where nearly 80
percent of people were poor compared to 54 percent in the urban areas. The country had one of
the lowest levels of life expectancy in the world at 39 years for men and 42 years for women.
This was about 10 years shorter than the average for countries in Africa and 25 years shorter
than the world. Child mortality rates were among the highest in the world: 17 percent of
children died before their first birthday and 28 percent died before they reached the age of 5
years. The maternal mortality rate was one of the highest in the world at 2,000 maternal deaths
per 100,000 live births. At the end of the civil war, GDP returned to moderate growth of
around 4 percent per year between 2002 and 2005. By August 2007, Sierra Leone undertook its
first successful presidential and parliamentary elections which handed over power to the All
People’s Congress from the Sierra Leone People’s Party.

2. In June 2001, the government formulated an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(IPRSP) that focused on good governance, re-launching the economy, and providing basic
social services to the most vulnerable groups. The second phase of the IPRSP focused on good
governance, revival of the economy and social sector development. The government developed
a full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for 2005-2007 that focused on promoting: (i)
good governance, security and peace, (ii) pro-poor sustainable growth for food security and job
creation; and (iii) human development. The third pillar of the PRSP focused specifically on the
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) based on the understanding that
poverty reduction must be underpinned by investments in human resources. The successive
PRSPs and World Bank Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) have identified weak governance
and accountability structures as some of the main risks to their successful implementation.
Lack of capacity was identified as a major constraint and a cause of governance weaknesses.
At the time of appraisal of the FTI project (2008), Sierra Leone was ranked 158 out of 180
countries on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (it has since moved
up to a rank of 134 by 2011).

3. Sector Context. When Sierra Leone emerged from the civil war most of the country’s
social, economic and physical infrastructure had been destroyed. The education sector was
devastated with the destruction of school infrastructure, severe shortages of teaching materials,
overcrowding in many classrooms in safer areas, displacement of teachers and delay in paying
their salaries, frequent disruptions of schooling, disorientation and psychological trauma
among children, poor learning outcomes, weakened institutional capacity to manage the system
and a serious lack of information and data to place service provision. At the time the project


                                             8
was appraised, primary school enrollment had increased considerably since the end of the war.
The best available data at the time showed that the primary school gross enrollment rate had
increased from approximately 131 percent in 2002/03 to 162 percent in 2004/05, reflecting that
the system was in a phase of catch-up with many overage children and youth enrolling in
school after the war. Entry into grade 1 in primary school increased from approximately
200,000 to 300,000 between 2002 and 2005. Despite these increases, it was estimated that 25-
30 percent of primary school-aged children (more than 240,000) were out of school and the
main reason cited was economic difficulties. Girls in the rural areas and the Northern region
were less likely to attend or complete school. Most schools in Sierra Leone had poor quality
classrooms, a lack of textbooks and teaching materials, and about 40 percent of the teachers
were unqualified. Given these conditions and the post-conflict fragile state status of the
country, it was highly unlikely that Sierra Leone would meet the education MDG targets by
2015.

4. To address the education challenges, the government took a number of initial steps: (i)
introduced a fee free policy in 2002/03; (ii) established the Development Partnership
Committee in 2003 to provide opportunities for sector engagement, dialogue and sector
reviews, co-chaired by the Government of Sierra Leone (GoSL), World Bank and UNDP; (iii)
passed the Local Government Act in 2004 to re-establish Local Councils and local
governments to begin a decentralization process for the management of basic services with the
intention of transferring full responsibility for pre-primary, primary, and junior secondary to
the local level by 2008; (iv) passed the Education Act in 2004 that established key legislation
to guide the education sector and; (v) developed the Education Sector Plan “A Road Map to a
Better Future? (ESP 2007-2015) that outlined the goals and aspirations for education over a
nine year period. The ESP emphasized primary education and skills training and provided the
foundation for the achievement of universal basic education and expansion of post-basic
secondary education. In 2007, the development partners (DPs) appraised the ESP and on April
27, 2007 Sierra Leone was welcomed into full EFA-FTI partnership (currently the Global Fund
for Education-GPE) with the approval of an allocation of US$13.9 million.

Project Context. At the time of the development of the EFA FTI project, the responsibility for
managing and supervising basic education (pre-primary through junior secondary) was in the
process of being decentralized to the newly formed Local Councils (LCs). The objective of the
decentralization was to improve service delivery and school performance, thereby improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of public education spending. The new functions of Local
Councils included the recruitment and payment of teachers, provision of textbooks and
teaching materials, and the rehabilitation and construction of schools. At the time, however, the
new roles and lines of authority and accountability had yet to be clarified. At the local level, for
example, it was not yet clear how the Ministry’s District Education Offices and the Local
Councils would work together in order for the decentralization and devolution to be effective.
Local Councils were also not fully staffed; while they had some technical staff in 2008
(monitoring and evaluation officers), they were not staffed with engineers until 2010. Capacity
was also weak in the central government. At the time of project appraisal, the Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology had 218 staff vacancies, including many positions at
director level, and this situation did not improve until around 2010, when some directors were
appointed. This is not unusual for fragile states. As indicated in the 2011 WDR, it can take a


                                              9
generation to reestablish and create legitimate institutions after years of conflict—even in the
fastest transforming countries it can take 15 to 30 years to raise institutional performance from
that of a fragile state.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5. The objective of the Project was to expand access to and improve the quality of basic
education in the Recipient's territory. The key indicators selected to measure progress toward
the PDO were:

                    Indicator                             Baseline (2007/08)                 Target (2011)
    Primary Gross enrollment rate increases                              104%                          106%%
    Percentage of pupils who pass the                                    72.5%                          72.5%
    National Primary School Exam (NPSE)


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

6. The PDO was not revised during project implementation. The key indicators were revised
to be more aligned with the PDO and with core indicators for the education sector. The gross
enrollment rate PDO indicator was dropped because the data were not comparable over time
given the weaknesses in the underlying enrollment and/or population census data.1 The primary
completion rate was added to replace the GER, and the percentage of girls in JSS indicator was
moved from being an intermediate indicator to PDO level since there was an increased focus
on girls in the project restructuring.

Indicator                                           Baseline 20081   Target 2010   Target 2012
Gross enrollment rate (dropped)                                 104%          106%
Percentage of pupils who pass the NPSE                         72.5%         72.5%          72%
examination (continued)
Primary completion rate (new)                                     61.8%                                        70%
Percentage of girls enrolled in JSS                               40.9%                 43.9%                  45%
(moved from intermediate indicator to
PDO level indicator)
1
 Source: Sierra Leone Country Status Report (CSR), 2012 draft.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
7. The targeted population in the project consisted of children of primary school age,
particularly those who did not currently attend school, and those who were at risk of repetition
or drop out. Junior secondary school (JSS) girls, in particular, were to be targeted, given their

1
  The numbers were somewhat controversial as they were reported differently by various entities and had wide
variations ranging from 104% to 152%. While this is common in a post-conflict situation, there was no agreement so
the team decided that completion rates would be more accurate.




                                                         10
lower enrollment and completion rates. The other beneficiaries were: (i) teachers that received
pre-service and in-service training; (ii) school staff, parents and communities where new
classrooms were constructed; (iii) staff at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
(MEST-formerly the Ministry of Education, Sports and Youth-MEYS); and (iv) Local
Councils.

1.5 Original Components

The original project design comprised three components:

8. Expand Access to Basic Education (US$5.95 million). This component was to carry out
activities to enhance the awareness of government fee-free and other education policies,
activities aimed at increasing enrollment, especially in primary one, and construction,
rehabilitation and furnishing of basic school infrastructure. An out-of-school study was to be
carried out as a basis for campaigns to promote these activities. The component was targeted at
increasing the number of pupils enrolled at primary level, the number of new entrants into
primary one, and the percentage of girls enrolled.

9. Improve Quality of Teaching and Increase Access to Learning Materials (US$7.69
million). The component was to support primary and junior secondary teacher in-service and
distance education training, and providing teaching and learning materials to primary and
junior secondary schools. The component aimed to provide in-service training to primary
teachers and junior secondary teachers and to upgrade the qualifications of unqualified teachers
through an on-going distance learning program, as well as distribute sets of primary and adult
learners teaching and learning materials to pupils and learners.
10. Enhance Coordination and Management of the Education Sector (US$0.26 million).
This component was to strengthening sector capacity to coordinate and monitor education
interventions, and improve education sector management. The component also aimed at
institutionalizing the review of education sector performance through the annual education
sector performance review.

1.6 Revised Components

11. The original project document listed activities that the project was to support. However,
some activities in the original design were moved out of the project and supported by other
development partners (DPs) because of delays in project effectiveness. The DPs agreed during
their regular meetings on which activities they would support based on their own program
portfolios. At the time of restructuring, the Bank team clarified which project activities were
dropped and which activities were shifted out of the original project design and ultimately
supported by the various DPs. The restructuring also added new activities, based on the
government’s request, which shifted the focus of the project away from an input based
approach to working on incremental, systemic improvements in service delivery. (Annex 2 to
the ICR provides a table that details the modifications to each project component.) A summary
of the main modifications to the project components were as follows: (i) revision of the
classroom construction target from 318 to 285 due to slow implementation; (ii) inclusion of
two years of financing for a de-worming program for school-age children; and (iii) inclusion of


                                           11
one year of support for the government’s JSS girls’ incentive program to improve its
governance and efficiency. The project first validated the number of girls in school and then
made a one-time transfer to the MEST to provide support for one academic year. The
restructuring also supported: (i) the procurement and distribution of writing instruments (pens,
pencils, erasers, rulers), notebooks, supplementary reading materials, and Braille textbooks for
primary and JSS schools; (ii) implementation of a learning assessment framework; (iii) training
on test development in primary mathematics and language; (iv) review and revision of ten
additional curricula and the printing of the revised curricula and developing a JSS curriculum
framework which will lead to a full revision of the curriculum in the next GPE project; and (v)
training of 700 school management committees which was a new one week training activity.

1.7 Other significant changes

12. On June 29, 2010, the project was restructured (level one) to extend the closing date of
the project from June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011. The purpose of the extension was to
allow the government time to complete: (i) school construction, (ii) project training including
teacher training, and (iii) distribution of teaching and learning materials. Implementation of
project activities had been delayed due to delays in effectiveness and capacity constraints
within MEST and local councils, but the project’s development objectives remained the same
and attainable.

13. On December 29, 2011, the second level one restructuring: (i) modified selected
indicators in the results framework; (ii) added a disbursement category and reallocated US$1.4
million to the new disbursement category to support the JSS girls incentive program; (iii)
reduced the procurement of civil works from 318 classrooms to 285; (iv) introduced additional
capacity building and support for the MEST and (v) extended the closing date for an additional
nine months from December 31, 2011 to September 30, 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14. Project Preparation. In May 2007, the Government of Sierra Leone, the Bank and
development partners (DP) began project preparation after the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund (CF)
Strategy Committee approved an EFA-FTI grant in the amount of US$13.9 million for
activities toward achieving universal basic education in Sierra Leone. This approval was based
on the ESP that had been appraised and endorsed by the donor community and the government.
Although the EFA-FTI approved the grant in May 2007, the EFA-FTI guidelines were
modified to require more rigorous project documentation. This modification led to a longer
preparation period that delayed the signing of the grant agreement until September 15, 2008.
The parliament of Sierra Leone ratified the project on December 16, 2008 which constituted
the government’s formal agreement with the project plan. The Bank project preparation and
appraisal teams consisted of technical experts that were appropriate for the development of the
project as well as representatives from the local education sector group. On the government
side, the preparation of the project included staff from the MEST and was supported by the


                                           12
minister, since MEST had been active participants in the development of the ESP. The project
preparation process was collaborative, aligned with the ESP and to the extent possible, based
on lessons learned from the emergency project, Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project
(REBEP-IDA-H0200).

15. Original Project Design. The original project design was relevant in that it fit squarely
into the ESP that was informed by the 2006 Country Status Report (CSR), CAS, and PRSP all
of which had the objectives of supporting growth, rapid poverty reduction, and human
development. All recognized the strong links between universal basic education and economic
growth and poverty reduction. The project design took into consideration comments by the
peer reviewers which were responsible for providing the quality guidance on the project.

16. The project design included activities outlined in the ESP that were to assist the
government in reaching their goal of increased access and improved quality of basic education
through: (i) construction, rehabilitation and furnishing of basic school infrastructure (ii)
improving the quality of teaching; (iii) increased access to learning materials, and (iv)
enhanced coordination and management of the education sector. The results framework was
developed based on the ESP indicators and they were the correct selection to measure progress
toward the goal of increased access and improved quality. However, as was discovered after
preparation, the 2004 baseline was faulty due to the difficulty in collecting data in a post-conflict
situation. The problematic baseline ultimately led to some indicators being dropped during the
restructuring. To support capacity building within the ministry, decisions were made to
mainstream implementation within the MEST and include implementation activities into the
day-to-day work of the ministry staff. This was also the first time, since the end of the civil
conflict, that the MEST had been given the responsibility for implementation of projects.2 In
addition, the project was designed to be part of an education sector support fund (ESSF-pooled
fund) to which the DPs had agreed.3 The results framework was derived from the ESP and
indicators were selected to measure access and quality. The project included one disbursement
category which, in retrospect, was a good design choice because it provided appropriate
flexibility for the simplified restructured design in 2011. The preparation team did identify
capacity weakness at all levels as one of the main risks for project implementation. Although
the design included some capacity development activities, in the end, they were insufficient to
deal with capacity constraints within the system. However, this is not unexpected considering
the EFA-FTI project was for a three year period and, as stated previously, it takes between 15
to 30 years to rebuild institutions and capacity after years of civil conflict. It was also evident
that the government implementation team was not initially aware of the flexibility intrinsic in
having one disbursement category. This lack of knowledge prevented the ESP secretariat from
capitalizing on this flexibility and hiring need staff to support implementation. The project was


2
 The Rehabilitation of Basic Education (REBEP) was implemented using a separate project
implementation unit that was independent of the MEST.

3
  The donors originally agreed that the ESSF would be primary modality used to support the ESP. While
the ESSF still exists, it has not been used as the primary modality for supporting the ESP.




                                                  13
also designed as a three year project according the EFA-FTI guidelines. Although this is the
agreed timeframe for EFA –FTI projects, this is too short a period of time in which to
implement large scale new school construction particularly in a post-conflict fragile state
environment.

17. Restructuring Design. By 2010 it was evident that capacity constraints and lack of
coordination between the central ministry and LCs were impacting the implementation of the
project. Early in 2011, the project submitted a revised annual plan which shifted resources to
ensure that the ESP Secretariat was fully financed and people hired to address issues of day-to-
day management, monitoring and evaluation, and financial and procurement staffing. After a
full review of the issues and realization that the program’s original design could not be
implemented, it was decided to restructure the project in the fall of 2011. The restructuring: (i)
reduced the scope of the civil works, (ii) increased resource allocations to support quality, girls
and school health and (iii) modified the results framework to more accurately reflect project
progress and PDO achievement. This was reflected by the: (i) reduction in the number of
classrooms to be constructed from 318 to 285; (ii) inclusion of support for a JSS girl’s
incentive program; (iii) review of the JSS curriculum and development of a new JSS
curriculum framework; and (iv) support for de-worming of school aged children. (See Annex
2-Table 1 for a detailed list of project activities dropped and added during the restructuring.)
The restructuring continued to fit squarely within the ESP (2007-20015) and the Bank’s
Country Assistance Strategy. The project PDO remained unchanged and the implementation
unit stayed within the ministry structure. In addition, the flow of funds was adjusted to avoid
delays and redundancy, especially between the LCs and MEST, and relevant reporting
procedures were simplified. Specifically the funds were transferred to the ESSF Leone account
and paid directly to the LC education accounts instead of flowing through various levels of the
Local Government Finance Department (LGFD). The restructuring was appropriate
particularly with the: (i) re-focus on quality through the support of curriculum improvement
and assessment, (ii) reallocation of US$1.4 million for girls and (iii) more effective financial
management arrangements. The support for girls is judged to be important considering girls are
underrepresented in secondary school and given the wide gap in youth literacy rates, which are
48 percent for girls and 68 percent for boy. There remains a critical need to ensure that
development progress accrues to women as well as men. Moreover, the adjustment to the flow
of funds and the increased resources for the implementation team was important because of the
limited capacity related to the post-conflict environment in Sierra Leone.

2.2 Implementation

18. The project was designed to mainstream project implementation within the MEST and to
devolve some responsibilities to the Local Councils in keeping with the decentralization efforts
in the education sector. The project was also the first post-conflict project to be implemented
solely by MEST staff (the first emergency project established a separate Project
Implementation Unit for implementation). The MEST was to be responsible for overall
implementation, while the local councils were to be responsible for the procurement and
supervision of school construction and school furniture.




                                             14
19. Implementation of the EFA-FTI project was mixed. The project was signed in September
2008 and became effective January 7, 2009 after it was ratified by the parliament and the legal
opinion was issued by the Attorney General. The first withdrawal application was processed in
June 2009 in the amount of US$3 million. These early processing delays reduced the overall
implementation period allowing less than one and a half years for actual implementation under
the original design.

20. The implementation started with the MEST implementation project coordinator
mainstreamed into an Education Sector Plan Secretariat and the MEST’s procurement officer
working on: (i) the review of the design of school structures; (ii) bid evaluation process with
local councils (LCs) for civil works and furniture and with MEST for teaching and learning
materials, and (iii) the education sector annual performance review. On the Bank and DP side,
there was: (i) preparation of an Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) application in
the amount of US$769,000 to support MEST capacity strengthening; (ii) establishing of the
ESSF committee and preparation of the ESSF operational manual, and (iii) planning for the
teacher training activities with the MEST and UNICEF developing the child centered teaching
techniques (CCTT) modules that would be incorporated into the project distance education
activity.

21. As early as December 2009, MEST and Local Councils began to exhibit signs of
implementation capacity weakness with problems related to the civil works. They were having
difficulties with the bid evaluation process and the MEST procurement officer left the ministry.
Although the procurement officer was replaced, the new procurement officer and the chief
accountant needed substantial training related to Bank procurement and financial management
requirements. Moreover, they were responsible for all MEST procurement and financial
management which made it difficult for them to provide adequate support for the
implementation of the project. The project design provided for hiring FM and procurement
consultants to work with the ESP coordinator and serve as liaisons to the ministry finance
officer and procurement unit but they had not been hired. This left the ESP coordinator as the
only person to manage all the project-related activities. It was correct to mainstream the
implementation within the MEST. However, the Bank preparation team should have identified
all key team members and begun the capacity training during preparation to ensure project
readiness and smoother implementation.

22. Civil works contracts were signed in late 2009 and early 2010 and the first installment of
the contracts were released to the contractors. However, it took until late 2010 and early 2011
for the second installment to be released. Much of this delay was due to lack of knowledge and
experience with Bank procurement and financial management (FM) procedures. In addition,
some LCs discovered that they had few qualified bidders and had to re-launch the process. This
continued to slow the construction of schools. By June 29, 2010 the project had only disbursed
28 percent of the grant and was about to close. The FTI, Bank, DPs, and Government, realizing
that Sierra Leone’s capacity constraints had delayed the project implementation, agreed to
extend the closing date to December 2011. This would give time for the project to complete
ongoing activities and meet its PDO.

23. In late-2010, the Bank shifted its project support strategy. A new project TTL identified
specific implementation bottlenecks, began intensive supervision, and worked with the MEST


                                           15
to ensure the ESP Secretariat was properly staffed. However, the project had to be downgraded
to moderately unsatisfactory due to slow disbursements, lack of financial management
monitoring and reporting – including no Interim Financial Reports since the project’s start or
the annual audit for 2009 – and lack of results on the ground. After the shift in focus to
implementation bottlenecks and with more attention to procurement issues, implementation
improved substantially with: (i) disbursements improving from 22 percent in June 2010 to 64
percent by December 2011, (ii) submission of all Interim Financial Management Reports
(IFRs), (iii) submission of the 2009 and 2010 annual audits, (iv) progress in the supply and
delivery of teaching and learning materials, (v) continued teacher training, and (vi) fully
staffing the ESP Secretariat. In September 2011, the Bank was able to hire an Extended Term
Consultant (ETC) based in the Freetown office to provide day-to-day implementation support
in the country. While there was progress, the implementation team still needed time to
complete the project activities and in the fall of 2011, the MEST requested a second extension.
The Bank team asserted that the extension could only be granted if the project was restructured
to shift the emphasis on goods and works toward key activities that would begin to move
toward a programmatic approach, which would eventually have more long term impact on
strengthening the system. The MEST agreed and the project restructuring was completed in
December 2011. Between December 2010 and project closing, the Bank also conducted 10
supervision missions to Sierra Leone to work with the MEST and other government groups to
improve project implementation.

24. The restructuring did refocus the project design on quality and system-building activities
which facilitated implementation progress. However, challenges remained with the
construction of schools, the main issues being: (i) delays in MEST receiving reports from LCs
which slowed payments; (ii) non-performance of contractors; (iii) delayed payments or over-
payments from the LCs to contractors; and (iv) weak LC construction supervision leading to
insufficient quality in some cases. These issues persisted until the project closing. However, by
project closing, 255 classrooms out of 285, 42 sets of latrines out of 57 and 40 wells out of 57
were completed. The MOF also provided the Bank task team with a letter guaranteeing the
completion of the remaining works by the original contractors and supervised by the LCs and
have already allocated the resources to the MEST budget as a specific line-item. Despite the
civil works challenges, the project experienced substantial progress related to quality and
system-building. This can be seen in the: (i) one year support of approximately 75,000 girls
through the JSS tuition incentive program, which helped to ensure the retention of girls, and
development of an operations manual to guide improved, more transparent implementation of
the program in future years; (ii) evaluation of the 1-year distance training which indicated that
classroom observation showed that teachers were performing at a higher level; (iii) completion
of a policy framework for learning assessment that included a draft instrument for piloting and
training of 50 participants on test item writing; (iv) development of a new JSS framework to
guide a complete revision of the curriculum over the next few years; (v) de-worming of 1.2
million primary school-aged children in 12 districts; and (vi) school-based management
training (see Annex 2 for additional project achievements). These are all substantial
achievements of the project. In addition to these successes, the benefits of providing resources
directly to the MEST, given post-conflict governance and capacity constraints, cannot be
underestimated. The project gave MEST the first opportunity to make expenditure choices and
to gain experience in the implementation of projects post-conflict. Again, this is a substantial
achievement. By project closing, the project was upgraded to MS with all the quality and


                                            16
system building activities satisfactorily implemented and approximately 89 percent of
classrooms, 70 percent of wells and 74 percent of latrines completed. The final project
disbursements were 84.17 percent. While 100 percent of the funds were not disbursed, this was
partly due to savings related to US$/Le exchange rate gains.

25. Development Partner Coordination. The project preparation began with strong
development partner (DP) support and involvement. DPs agreed on an ESSF pooled fund
mechanism for donor funds, they developed an Operations Manual and set up a Coordination
Committee, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), and deposits were made into a
Leone account and a US$ account for the EFA-FTI funds. Support for the pooled fund
mechanism diminished during implementation with most donors implementing their own
programs. However, after the restructuring, the project utilized the Leone account to simplify
the financial arrangements for the JSS girls’ incentive program and transfer funds directly to
schools. The EFA-FTI project was also very helpful in serving as a coordination mechanism
for regular meetings between DPs, non-government organizations and Government to discuss
project and ESP implementation progress. The DPs remain engaged in the updating of the
Education Sector Development Plan and the preparation of the new GPE project with UNICEF
as the lead donor and the World Bank as the supervising entity.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26. Design. The results framework for the project was derived directly from the ESP4 and
was appropriate considering the data availability on sector performance at the time. While the
indicators themselves were appropriate, the slow implementation progress and some baseline
data issues warranted the 2011 restructuring of the results framework. During the restructuring,
the gross enrollment rate (GER) and gross intake rate (GIR) were specifically dropped because
the data were not comparable over time given the weaknesses in the underlying enrollment
and/or population census data. In addition, because the restructuring eliminated activities and
introduced others, some of the intermediate indicators were modified. The ICR team judges
that these were all appropriate modifications and measures for achievement of the PDO.

27. The project also provided financing for the Education Management Information System
(EMIS) within MEST, thereby supporting MEST capacity to monitor sector performance. The
previous project had also supported EMIS, and the EFA FTI project provided funding for
school census data collection and analysis for 2010/11 and 2011/12. As per the project design,
the ESP Coordinator—in addition to being responsible for day-to-day management of the
project—had the responsibility to: (i) coordinate development partner interventions/activities,
and (ii) lead the process of organizing the annual sector performance reviews which was an
appropriate design.

28. Implementation and Utilization of Monitoring and Evaluation . Implementation of the
EMIS activities was successful. Support was provided for training related to MEST data entry


4
    ESP data was derived from the CSR.




                                           17
and analysis with EPDF funds, while the EFA FTI project funded data collection, entry, and
analysis. This resulted in the production of the 2010/11 School Census Report which was the
first school census report since 2005. This report established a new baseline for education
statistics and going forward will result in more accurate and timely education statistics
necessary for well-informed policy and budget decisions. Education data from 2010/11 were
also used in the final results framework. The project also provided funding for the 2011/12
school census, for which analysis is on-going, and for pre-census training activities related to
the 2012/13 school census. MEST provided regular implementation status reports, and the
ESSF Committee met regularly to discuss the status of project implementation. Annual sector
performance reviews have also been held. The project conducted several validation exercises
during the last year: (i) MEST worked with Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) to validate that
the learning materials and furniture reached schools and are in use; (ii) an independent
engineering assessment of the civil works was carried out; and (iii) a CSO validation of girls
JSS enrollment figures. The ICR team views the validation exercises as a valuable part of the
project M&E activities and a best practice.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

29. Safeguards. The project was classified as a Category B because it included school
construction. An Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) was prepared and disclosed in the
InfoShop in September 2008. An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
was prepared, approved and disclosed in Sierra Leone and the InfoShop on September 10,
2008. There was a post-project environmental audit that showed that the project was in
compliance with all safeguards as outlined in the ESMF.

30. Fiduciary and Procurement Compliance. As mentioned previously, the MEST was
responsible for implementing the project and the fiduciary management capacity was deemed
satisfactory for the implementation of the original project according to OP/BP 10.02. However,
the systems were judged weak and therefore the risks associated with FM were substantial.
Most financial arrangements of the restructured project remained largely the same with the
notable exception of the funds flow from the MEST to the LCs which were streamlined to
avoid delays. The responsibilities for project FM were carried out by the finance officer
consultant in the ESP Secretariat in the MEST. The project FM arrangements met the
minimum requirements for financial management systems with its internal controls and
staffing, and financial reporting compliance with the submission of audit reports and Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs).

31. At project closing, financial management of the project was rated MS. Other than the
audit waiver granted for the first year’s audit, there were no documented deviations, nor were
there waivers from the Bank’s fiduciary policies and procedures throughout the project’s four-
year implementation. Overall, the project met the financial reporting requirements as agreed in
the Financing Agreement. There were initial report submission delays in the first few years
owing to some implementation challenges especially the prolonged delay in recruiting FM
personnel on the project; but since these were resolved, submission of the financial reports
(Audited Financial Statements and Interim Financial Reports) have been consistent and in
acceptable formats. For the same reasons, disbursement activities were delayed until early
2011. With the hiring of experienced personnel by the ESP Secretariat, frequent supervision


                                           18
missions, and FM implementation support, disbursement activities improved and stood at 84.17
percent at closing. The 2011 financial audit was unqualified and the 2012 audit is due to two
months following the Grace Period, or March 31, 2013.

32. Although the procurement process slowed project implementation, overall procurement
was carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits? dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006; and “Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers? dated May 2004 and
revised in October 2006 and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The issues
related to procurement at project closing were payments to contractors for incomplete work
and non-performing contracts. While the implementation team was not able to resolve these
issues prior to closing, the Ministry of Finance provided assurance to the Bank that these issues
would be resolved by March 31, 2013.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33. The Bank is currently working with the government of Sierra Leone to prepare a new
Global Partnership for Education Fund (GPEF) operation. The new project is expected to be
delivered in FY14 and will focus on improving the quality of basic education services. The
project is likely to include: (i) learning assessment activities related to the work started under
this project; (ii) curriculum reform based on the curriculum framework already developed, (iii)
grants to the local councils to implement annual work plans; and (iv) capacity building
activities to further the progress made during this project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34. Relevance of Objectives. The project development objectives were highly relevant to the
country’s sectoral needs when the project was developed. The project objectives fit squarely
into the Bank’s 2005 CAS, the PRSP, and the government and DPs 2007 ESP that aimed to
help Sierra Leone make progress toward achievement of the MDGs. Like the 2005 CAS, the
new CAS prepared in 2010 also included a strong focus on human development, including
basic education, so the project is relevant to the current CAS as well. The objectives were
designed to be broad which was appropriate because it allowed for the project to make relevant
adjustments when necessary during implementation.

35. Relevance of Design. The mainstreaming of project implementation, the dual focus on
access and quality of the original project design, and the results framework were appropriate.
However, large scale civil works and procurement activities were less appropriate considering
the capacity constraints identified as a risk in the original project paper (PP). In addition, the
proposed capacity risk mitigation activities to ameliorate this weakness were under-prepared
and unfunded. During the restructuring, the Bank and government teams recognized the
continued capacity constraints and refocused the project design on system building and
expanded the quality aspects of the project. The restructuring also appropriately modified the
results framework to reflect the changes in the project and improved the flow of funds by



                                            19
simplifying the processes to eliminate the bottlenecks that were inhibiting implementation.
These were all important modifications and highly appropriate.

36. Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of early stages of project implementation
is judged to be modest. This is mainly based on the slow implementation of large scale civil
works activities and procurement of goods and materials. As indicated, this was due to the
limited experience of the MEST with implementation of Bank supported projects and the
capacity constraints of the MEST staff regarding Bank procurement and FM procedures.
Moreover, the Bank did not have an adequate support system in country to assist in the
amelioration of these constraints. As indicated above, beginning in late-2010, the Bank
provided more intensive supervision and took measures to deal with the support system,
restructure the project, simplified the flow of funds, and provided procurement assistance and
helped standardize the FM reporting. With these measures in place, the government
substantially improved their implementation of project activities. Based on these actions the
overall rating for relevance of implementation is judged to be substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

37. The project development objective was to expand access to and improve the quality of
basic education in Sierra Leone. The original results framework PDO indicators were being
monitored and data collected as well as reported on a regular basis to the DPs. However, the
GER was dropped as an indicator during the restructuring. This was because there were wide
variations between the GER figures being reported from different sources—e.g., the 2007
Country Status Report and Statistics Sierra Leone—and because it was later determined that
school survey data collected before 2010 had been highly inflated. In addition, population data
were based on projections of older census data and found to be uncertain. Based on this
information, the Bank team decided to drop the GER indicator and add the primary completion
rate (PCR) as a PDO level indicator to measure improvements in access and student flow
efficiency within the system. The PCR has several advantages out the GER, since the PCR is
net of repeaters as well as a more direct measure of progress toward universal primary
completion which is the key MDG goal for education. It should be noted, that while the
indicator was dropped and the baseline considered faulty, GER has improved and is now at 122
percent compared to the 104 percent baseline established at the time of project appraisal. 5 At
this time, the percentage of girls enrolled in JSS was moved from the intermediate level to the
PDO level because the focus on girls had been increased in the project activities. This section
evaluates the outcomes against the results framework modified during the 2011 restructuring
and other indicators of system performance.




5
  Further, according to the 2012 draft education Country Status Report, household survey data show that
primary school enrollments were about 956,000 in 2007 using the CWIQ survey, and 980,000 in 2008
using the SLDHS. This is compared with primary enrollments of 1,194,503 in 2010/11, based on the
2010/11 school census, that was validated and broadly considered to be reliable. Thus, enrollments have
likely increased in absolute terms over the project period.




                                                    20
38. Improved quality in basic education was to be measured using the percentage of pupils
who pass the NPSE examination. The target of 72 percent was surpassed by 3 percent. In an
environment with rapidly rising enrollments, and where the new students brought into the
system on average, have lower socio-economic characteristics than those already enrolled,
maintaining learning outcomes and quality at the same level is an achievement.. The
intermediate indicators used to measure improved access were: (i) number of additional
qualified teachers resulting from project interventions (core indicator); (ii) number of primary
teachers who receive in-service training under the project; and (iii) number of junior secondary
teachers who receive in-service training. The number of unqualified teachers who were trained
and upgraded through distance learning was 1,000 reaching the target of 1,000. The number of
primary and JSS teachers that received in-service was 1,000 and 260 respectively, both
reaching the target.6 The project supported an assessment of the in-service distance education
training program and reported, for the classroom observations, that the training had a positive
impact on teacher performance. In addition to the selected indicators, the project also provided:
(i) approximately 1.7 million supplementary readers for primary schools that were confirmed
in an independent validation to be in schools and used; (ii) writing instruments (pens, pencils,
erasers, rulers), notebooks, and Braille textbooks for children with disabilities; and (iii) funds
for two years of de-worming for a total of approximately 1.8 million children. An independent
monitoring of the de-worming program revealed 87 percent coverage of all primary school-
aged children covered which is significantly over the World Health Organization (WHO) target
of 80 percent.

39. Increased accessed was to be measured using the primary completion rate and
percentage of girls enrolled in junior secondary school. The primary completion rate increased
from 61.8 percent in 2008 to 76.1 percent in 2011 exceeding the target of 70.0 percent. The
percentage of girls enrolled in JSS increased from 40.9 percent in 2008 to 45 percent 2011
meeting the target. These are substantial achievement for any system over such a short period
of time. The intermediate level indicator selected to measure increased access was number of
new classroom constructed under the project (core indicator). The number of additional
classrooms constructed under the project was 255 missing the revised target of 285.

3.3 Efficiency

40. There is evidence of substantial efficiency in the use of project funds, with unit costs for
project activities and inputs all falling close to or below average costs from Sierra Leone or
other countries in the region. The fact that independent validations found that inputs, on the
whole, have reached the intended beneficiaries and are being used is also viewed very
positively from an efficiency or value-for-money standpoint.

41. At the time of preparation of this ICR (February 2013), the financial loss sustained from
the non-completion of all civil works stands at around 3 percent of total project disbursements


6
 SIDA (Sweden) also financed training for 1000 primary and 260 JSS teachers, bringing to totals to 2000
and 520 respectively.




                                                   21
(or around US$ 340,000). The Government of Sierra Leone has guaranteed the completion of
all outstanding civil works at their expense.

42. From an economic standpoint, project funds have generally been invested in activities or
inputs that are known to produce high returns (such as de-worming, teaching and learning
materials) and were needed in the country (classrooms, school furniture). Annex 3 provides
some estimates of the cost-effectiveness of the JSS girls’ tuition subsidies and the de-worming
of school-age children. The project also scores high in terms of providing employment and
income opportunities within Sierra Leone, given that school construction was done by national
companies and school furniture were built by local craftsmen.

43. There is potentially a fiscal impact of the project, since it finances system expansion (new
schools) and teacher upgrading (which, in principle, qualifies teachers for higher salaries), but
these higher costs are within the parameters set out in the Education Sector Plan and costed out
in the associated financial simulation model. Thus, the fiscal impact is not additional to
projected costs for the sub-sector.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

44. An overall outcome rating of the project is moderately satisfactory based on the
following: (i) all project PDO level indicators were achieved; (ii) all but one of the
intermediate indicators were achieved; (iii) capacity within MEST was improved although
there were difficulties because Sierra Leone had just emerged from many years of conflict, and
(iv) the project design correctly mainstreamed implementation within the Ministry, but there
were implementation delays since this was the first project the Ministry ever implemented (the
previous project had a PIU with dedicated expertise). This delay was, again, to be expected
considering the post-conflict status of the country which left the Ministry devastated at the
time. Although the project experienced early implementation delays, improvements began
earlier than the actual submission of the 2011 restructuring paper and upgrading of the rating
from MU to MS. This is evidenced by an increase in disbursements from 20 to 64 percent
between December 2010 and December 2011 - which was the result of hiring the appropriate
implementation staff. The discussions and work on restructuring began as early as June 2011,
but it takes time to conduct and conclude a dialogue with governments on eliminating civil
works and procurement of books in favor of system improvements, particularly when the
government was facing an election year. Ultimately; the restructured project did shift to
working on processes and system development through: (i) a curriculum review which
involved extensive consultations across the country and analysis with international and national
technical specialists; (ii) developing a student assessment framework, including training of
MEST and other professionals in test and item development, sampling, etc. - that created actual
test instruments that were piloted; (iii) cleaning up the systems behind the data collection and
disbursements of the Girl-Child Support Program which had significant governance issues; and
(iv) extensive monitoring and validations, including with the support of CSOs, on the
distribution and use of materials in schools, levels of school construction, and promotion of the
Girl-Child Support Program.




                                              22
45. The project was downgraded to MU in the April 2011 ISR due to fiduciary issues and
lack of robust evidence of results on the ground. The fiduciary problems were addressed
efficiently, and implementation began to improve with the hiring of key staff in the ESP
Secretariat. Although project activities appeared to be moving, the team was reluctant to raise
the ratings for the two subsequent ISRs until there was hard evidence of project progress.
Based on implementation reports there seemed to be positive progress and therefore, the team
assumed the risk to move forward with the restructuring based on an understanding that the
MEST would (i) reduce the amount of procurement in the restructured project, and (ii) conduct
validations of all previous and ongoing activities. These validations by MEST, DecSec, CSOs
and the Bank were conducted between November 2011 and April 2012 and found that
implementation and results had in fact started improving in early 2011. The validations showed
that classrooms that were completed were being used and that all goods that had been procured
by the project were in schools and being used. Based on the new evidence from the validations,
the team raised the rating in the final ISR to MS. If evidence from the validations had been
available sooner, the team would have been able to raise the rating from MU to MS before the
restructuring was completed. ISRs cannot be retroactively upgraded, but the improvement in
fiduciary issues and the results of the validations were discussed in the final ISR of June 2012.

46. In summary, due to the extensive support to the program, MEST was able to build
capacity, prepare for a curriculum renewal (in the next project), develop systems to monitor
learning outcomes and use more transparent processes for distributing funds to schools. The
validations also provided the new data that showed project inputs were not only completed but
were being fully utilized. Given the status and capacity at the beginning of the project, and
combined with the highly efficient use of project funds, these were significant achievements..
In a post-conflict and fragile state environment the project achievements are judged to be is
moderately satisfactory.

     Original Project – Phase 1 (1/7/2009-12/30/2010) – 25.64 percent disbursement-net grant1
     Project Relevance Achievement of PDO (Efficacy) Efficiency            Overall Rating
     Modest               Moderately Unsatisfactory         Substantial    Moderately
                                                                           Unsatisfactory
     Project Restructuring - Phase 2 (1/2011-9/30/2012) – 74.36 percent disbursement-net grant
     Project Relevance Achievement of PDO (Efficacy) Efficiency            Overall Rating
     Substantial          Moderately Satisfactory           Substantial    Moderately Satisfactory
     Overall Project Ratings – 84.17 percent disbursement of total grant
     Project Relevance Achievement of PDO (Efficacy) Efficiency            Overall Rating
     Substantial          Moderately Satisfactory           Substantial    Moderately Satisfactory2
1
    The net grant amount for the project is US$11.7 million.
2
    Overall rating = (3)(.2564) +(4)(.7436) =3.74

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening




                                                       23
47. In addition to providing funds to support the JSS girls’ incentive program, the project was
able to strengthen its delivery and transparency. The findings of the JSS validation process,
conducted by CSOs, led MEST to improve in the processes of the JSS girls’ incentive program.
These changes were: (i) independent validation of girls’ enrollment using NGOs and also
triangulated the enrollment data with the EMIS; (ii) improved payment scheme that ensures
funds go directly to school bank accounts and parents receive reimbursement of fees paid; and
(iii) procedures for faster disbursement of funds for the incentive program. These processes are
now standardized throughout the country.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

48. An unintended outcome of validation exercises added during the restructuring was that it
provided an opportunity for linkage between the government and the CSOs. This experience
improved government/CSO interaction, strengthened social accountability in the sector, and
was beneficial for the government in terms of providing feedback to MEST on the situation on
the ground.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

49. The risks identified during project preparation were mostly appropriate: five were rated
substantial and two were modest. The risks identified were appropriate, however, in retrospect;
the ratings should have been higher for all the risks particularly given the post-conflict status of
the country and the decision to mainstream implementation activities within MEST. The
modest ratings related to local council administration being changed and inadequate capacity
at the local council level should have been rated substantial and high respectively. The five
substantial rating related to overall MEST capacity, submission of audit reports, inadequate
capacity for Bank procurement and FM and monitoring of education outcomes should have all
been rated high. The mitigations measures identified were appropriate however; additional
technical support was ultimately needed to improve implementation. The period from 2010 to
project completion saw an increase in technical support which led to an improvement in
implementation. Going forward the risks remain high related to capacity within the MEST,
particularly related to financial management, procurement, and management of Bank projects.
While the risks remain high related to capacity within MEST and LCs, the mainstreaming of
project implementation remains appropriate for Sierra Leone because MEST as an institution
will be strengthened along with their ability to delivery education services. The MEST remains
understaffed but continues to add staff and to fill the large number of vacancies. This process is
likely to take several years. The risks related to maintaining the achievements of the
development outcomes are modest. The objectives of improving access and quality of basic
education remain valid and going forward it is expected that there will be ongoing
improvements in the primary completion rates and the NPSE examination. The MEST will
continue to improve the quality of teaching with support of the next GPE project as well as




                                             24
continue to implement the new curriculum and learning assessment frameworks to improve
overall quality in the system.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

50. Bank Performance. The Bank preparation team included the appropriate technical
experts to appraise the project. The project was developed based on the ESP and in accordance
with EFA-FTI guidelines. The Bank, working with the government, incorporated
mainstreaming of project implementation into the design. This also gave MEST the
opportunity to manage a project for the first time after emerging from the civil crisis. The
project design appropriately provided flexibility by having one disbursement category, which
allowed for added flexibility in the use of the funds. However, the MEST was not properly
coached on the benefits and therefore could not take advantage of them. The project was
appropriately aligned with the ESP, PRSP and CAS but given the post-conflict status of the
country, the project readiness was questionable. The preparation team should have begun
capacity training during preparation to ensure project readiness and smoother implementation.
Capacity constraints were identified in the project document and resources were provided to
support capacity building; however, it will take more years of support to re-establish the
capacity within the MEST. The project design also included large scale school construction
activities that ultimately had to be scaled back because of limited capacity and a short three
year implementation period. The project construction activities were largely responsible for
many of the implementation problems. Midway through project implementation the Bank
recognized the implementation bottlenecks and took steps to work with government to
restructure the project. The restructuring eliminated flow of funds constraints, reduced the civil
works and redirected funds to quality inputs and system building which was welcomed by
government and DPs. These measures substantially improved implementation. Based on this,
Bank performance at entry is judged to be moderately satisfactory,

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

51. The Bank conducted many supervision missions during project implementation and
reported on the bottlenecks related to implementation civil works and slow disbursements.
There were two task team leaders during the implementation period. Post-2010 there was a
higher frequency of Bank supervision with 11 supervision missions in two years. In addition,
there was an in-country education specialist dedicated to supporting the Bank education
program and a country procurement officer that could work directly with MEST staff for the
last year of the project. The post-2010 Bank team recognized the need to restructure the project
and to narrow the scope of the interventions. The team composition was at that point
comprehensive and included education, procurement and financial management, and a
governance specialist. This increased effort helped accelerate implementation. The extensions
of the closing date were aimed at addressing issues encountered during implementation as well
as those that would enhance the development impact of the project. However, the Bank could
have done a better job of systematically providing technical advice and guidance on Bank


                                            25
processes and procedures through the early stages of the project which could have begun with a
project launch workshop and training.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

52. Based on the Bank’s quality at entry, the supervision discussion, and project outcomes
above, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

53. At the time of preparation, the country of Sierra Leone and the government were
emerging from civil strife and were deemed a post-conflict, fragile state. They were in the
process of rebuilding their institutions and there were substantial capacity constraints. Also, a
process of decentralization was ongoing since 2004. Recognizing these issues, the government
along with the development partners undertook the challenge of developing a full 9-year
education sector development plan to guide them in rebuilding the education system. Once the
ESP was developed, the government was an active participant in the presentation of the ESP to
the EFA FTI Catalytic Fund Strategy Committee in Bonn, Germany, in 2007. Based on the
presentation, the Committee approved a US$13.9 million allocation to Sierra Leone. When
EFA FTI modified their guidelines, the Government engaged with the EFA FTI Secretariat to
try and accommodate the new procedures which delayed signing of the grant agreement until
September 15, 2008. Parliament ratified the grant within an appropriate time period, on
December 16, 2008.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54. The government began mainstreaming the implementation of the project at the same time
as they were trying to re-staff their institutions, both at central and local levels. This led to slow
implementation progress. The delay in project effectiveness to January 2009 coupled with the
delay in the first withdrawal application in June 2009, contributed to the government’s ability
to fully staff the ESP secretariat. The secretariat did not become a fully functional unit until
early-2011 when it finally: (i) received an orientation on Bank procedures; (ii) understood the
flexibility of the disbursement category; and (iii) understood procurement and financial
management requirements. Once the secretariat staff understood the processes and the
procedures, implementation improved and 81.99 percent of the project was disbursed and most
of the project activities were completed by project closing. The ESP secretariat complied with
the requirements to submit both IFRs and FMRs but they were often delayed. The audit reports
were received and unqualified. However, there continued to be slow implementation of the
project civil works activities related to inadequate capacity at the local council level and
procurement experience at the national level. This prevented the project from finishing the civil
works activities. The government did provide written guarantees that all remaining classrooms,
latrines and wells would be completed with budget already allocated and provided to the
MEST.



                                              26
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

55. In light of the government performance and the discussion above, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

56. Lesson 1. Projects designed for post-conflict and fragile states need to anticipate that
implementation and disbursements will be slow initially. GPE projects are given three years for
full implementation. When countries have weak capacity this is not enough time to build the
necessary capacity and implement projects, in particular as it relates to civil work activities.
The GPE three year implementation requirement should be reconsidered, particularly in post-
conflict countries. Bank International Development Association (IDA) projects are allowed
five years for implementation.

57. Lesson 2. A strong government project implementation team must be in place prior to
project effectiveness and remain in place throughout project implementation. Key secretariat
appointments were delayed resulting in slow implementation progress. These delays along with
the short implementation period, contributed to the project implementation problems.

58. Lesson 3. Strong Bank supervision with knowledge of Bank procedures as well as Bank
staff based in post-conflict countries with low capacity is essential for ensuring the
implementation of Bank-supported projects. In the case of this project, the implementation unit
was unfamiliar with Bank procedures and would have benefited from earlier support from the
Bank on various procedures. The presence of a Bank-supported educator in country proved
invaluable for daily support and monitoring of project implementation. Experience with other
Bank-supported projects in post-conflict countries has shown that having the TTL in-country is
critical for ensuring timely project implementation. A project launch workshop would have
been helpful at the beginning of the project to provide an understanding of Bank procedures.

59. Lesson 4. The EFA-FTI project included a school construction component that was
difficult to implement due to weak capacity, lack of understanding of Bank procurement
methods, and inadequate arrangements for contract management and supervision. Future
school construction should include more capacity building and support in Bank procurement
methods, but should also be managed closer to the community level with more appropriate
contract management and supervision arrangements, and with funds provided directly to local
governments or communities to pay contractors.

60. Lesson 5. The project was developed and implemented within the context of structural
and institutional decentralization. Because the final decentralization mechanisms could not be
fully understood until the implementation process itself started, the implementation of the
Sierra Leone project was inherently bound to be slow. Projects designed within a context of on-
going decentralization should include an initial period of adjustment, as capacity cannot be
built before but it is actually supported and built during implementation. This is especially
important for post-conflict countries.



                                            27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

See Annex 7 for the borrower portion of the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                              28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                      Appraisal
                                                       millions)

            Total Baseline Cost        13.90              11.69          84.10
Physical Contingencies                  0.00               0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                     0.00               0.00          0.00
             Total Project Costs       13.90              11.69          84.10
      Total Financing Required         13.90              11.69          84.10



(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)   millions)

Education for All - Fast Track
                                                 13.90      11.69       84.10
Initiative




                                          29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1. Expand Access to Basic Education

61. Construction of new primary and JSS schools (cost~US$3.90 million). The original
design planned the construction or rehabilitation of 318 basic school classrooms
(corresponding to 52 schools), including head teacher’s offices (52), water wells (52) and 6-
compartment pit latrines (52). The schools were also to be provided a special classroom for
integrating children with special needs as well as stores for textbooks and exercise books. The
restructuring reduced the classroom target from 318 to 285 classrooms and reallocated funds to
other activities. The 285 classrooms were allocated across the territory as 3 new schools (two
6-classroom primary and one 3 classroom JSS school) for each of the 19 Local Councils (for a
total of 57 schools). The new schools built under the project include an office and storage,
water well and VIP latrines. As described under Component 2, the schools were also supplied
with furniture and learning materials. An external assessment conducted towards the end of the
project found that some of the works had not been completed by the contractors. At project
closing, 255 of the 285 classrooms had been completed, along with 40 of the 57 water wells
and 42 of the 57 sets of latrines.

62. De-worming (cost~US$ 0.41 million). In spring 2011 the Bank agreed to support a once
yearly de-worming of school-aged children under Component 1 which was formalized under
the restructuring. This activity was implemented by the Helen Keller Institute and financed the
de-worming of children in seven districts in June 2011 (of 680,000 children) and 12 districts in
May 2012 (covering 1.3 million children).

63. Girls’ incentive program for JSS (cost~US$ 1.05 million). During restructuring, one
year of funding for this ongoing government program was included in Component 1. It consists
of subsidies to tuition for girls in JSS schools to off-set tuition reductions for girls. The
program finances the fees for all three terms in grade 7, two out of three terms in grade 8, and
one out of three terms in grade 9. The program is meant to increase access and retention of
girls in JSS. Funds are paid directly to schools. The project also supported activities to make
the program more efficient and accurate through the more effective collection and validation of
information on girls’ enrollments. This includes the production of an operational manual
designed to improve the functioning of the program.

64. School Census/Support to the Education Management Information System (EMIS).
The project, together with UNICEF, supported the 2010/11 school census, which was the first
complete survey since the civil conflict, and the 2011/12 school census. For those two years,
funding was provided for the development of questionnaires, training, data collection and
yearbook preparation. Further, the project financed the training for the 2012/13 school census
and the establishment of a computer/data room in the MEST for large-scale data analysis.




                                            30
Component 2. Improve Quality of Teaching and Increase Access to Learning Materials

65. Training of teachers (US$~0.67 million). As per the original design, the project funded
the in-service training on teaching methodology and classroom management of 1,000 primary
and 260 JSS teachers (with another 1,260 teachers trained with funding from SIDA). Further,
the project funded the participation of 1000 untrained teachers in a 1-year distance teacher
education program, by the end of which teachers become certified to teach in grades 1-3 of
primary school. The target for the distance training was initially 300, but revised up to 1000
during restructuring. Two studies were also initially planned under this sub-component: (a) an
evaluation of on-going in-service teacher training, and (b) a study on overall teacher training;
but the restructuring paper revised this to an evaluation of the 1-year distance teacher training
program. This evaluation was completed in late 2012.

66. Furniture for new schools and needy schools (cost~US$ 1.09 million). New primary
and JSS schools built under this project as well as other needy schools were supplied with pupil
seaters, teacher tables and chairs, office tables and chairs and office cupboards. The furniture
were fabricated within the local council areas by artisans, and distributed by the local councils
to schools. All the 19 local councils received equal amounts of new school furniture. A total of
10,260 desks and chairs were purchased for primary school and 8,075 desks for JSS students.
The project provided 684 sets of primary school teachers’ desks and chairs and 171 for JSS
teachers. In addition to desks, the project provided 114 sets of office furniture and 114
cupboards to primary schools as well as 57 sets of office furniture for JSS and 57 cupboards.
Local councils made the distribution decisions based on need. External validation of the
delivery of the furniture to schools was conducted and found that all the furniture had been
delivered.

67. Teaching and learning materials for primary and JSS schools (cost~US$ 2.68
million). As per the original design, the project financed the supply of teaching and learning
materials for primary and JSS schools. Some revisions to the types of materials were made
during restructuring, as per Table 1. The types of materials procured were: (i) pen, pencils,
rulers, erasers; (ii) exercise books; and (iii) supplementary reading materials. The project
purchased 850,000 sets of pens, pencils, erasers and rulers, exercise books and 1,700,000
supplementary readers. All the 19 local councils received equal amounts of teaching and
learning materials. The project also purchased braille books that were distributed to the six
schools for the blind in the Bo, Kenema, Western Area, Kono, Bombali and Koinadugu
districts. The first set included 162 primary English textbooks grades 1-6; structural English
(108 copies-grades 1-3); social studies (157 copies-grades 1-6); primary science (93 copies-
grades3-6): The second set included 350 sets of braille primary school supplementary readers
and 100 copies of braille social studies textbooks for blind JSS pupils; The third set is made up
of 100 sets of braille English and integrated science textbooks for blind JSS pupils. External
validation of the delivery of the T&L materials to schools was conducted.

68. SMC training (cost~US$ 0.15 million). The project supported the training of school-
management committees (SMCs) in 50 schools per district in 2012. MEST has been




                                            31
monitoring the activities of SMCs and there are strong indications that schools have benefited
from the training with more activities going on than before the training.

69. Learning assessment and curriculum frameworks. The project funded: (i) a learning
assessment framework for primary school, field testing of test items, and training of people to
write test items; and (ii) the participatory development of a national junior secondary school
(JSS) curriculum framework that also addresses student assessment in JSS.

Component 3. Enhance Coordination and Management of the Education Sector

70. Education Sector Plan Secretariat Coordination and Operational Costs . The project
has funded the staffing and operational costs of the ESP Secretariat (four positions). UNICEF
has also supported the ESP Secretariat through the pooled fund.

71. Ministry of Education staff training (cost~US$ 0.19 million). Computer training of
professional and administrative staff of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology.
This training was part of a capacity building plan and responded to a need for greater computer
literacy as it was difficult for staff to operate computers. After the training, there is a greater
use of computers, including of email for communication.

Table 1: Revised Project Activities
                  Activities dropped
Original activities                   New activities as          Activities updated   Activities with no
                   at restructuring    of restructuring           at restructuring         change
Component 1. Expand Access to Basic Education
Out of School         Out of school       Incentives for girls   Classroom
Study                 study was funded    at the JSS level       rehabilitation and
                      by UNICEF.          based on agreed        construction.
Awareness raising                         criteria               Reduced target
campaign              Awareness raising                          classrooms from
                      campaigns funded    De-worming of          318 to 285
Classroom             by UNICEF and       school children.
rehabilitation and    other partners      Extend coverage to     Conduct school
construction (318                         national.              census. New
classrooms).                                                     questionnaire and
                                                                 process.
School Census




                                                  32
Component 2. Improve Quality of Teaching and Increase Access to Learning Materials
In-service teacher    Procurement of        Development of                   In-service teacher
training (1,260       850,000 geometry      new curriculum                   training for 1,260
primary and JSS       sets                  framework for JSS                primary and JSS
teachers)                                                                    teachers
                      Establish             Printing and
Distance              integrated learning   distribution of                  Teacher Certificate
Education training    complex in 3 LCs      syllabus for 14 JSS              training using
                                            subjects                         distance delivery
Establish             Procurement of                                         for 1000 primary
integrated learning   televisions and       Printing and                     teachers
complex in 3 LCs      VCD players.          distribution of
                                            Braille texts for                Evaluation of 1-
Evaluate in-service   Equip 6 schools in    primary and JSS                  year distance
teacher training      each local council                                     education training
(distance             with solar panels.    Preparation of                   course for teachers
education)                                  policy framework
                                            for learning                     Procurement and
Review and revise                           assessment                       distribution of
4 basic course JSS                                                           teaching and
syllabi                                     Training for test                learning materials
                                            development on
Procurement and                             language and                     Procurement and
distribution of                             mathematics at the               distribution of
teaching and                                primary level                    furniture
learning materials.
                                            Training of school
Procurement and                             management
distribution of                             committees
furniture.

Procurement of
850,000 geometry
sets. Procurement
of televisions and
VCD players

Equip 6 schools in
each local council
with solar panels




                                                    33
Component 3. Enhance Coordination and Management of the Education Sector
Strengthen sector   Teacher payroll                                            ESP Secretariat
capacity to         verification funded                                        Coordination and
coordinate and      by DFID in 2008                                            Operational Costs
monitor education   and the EU funded
interventions       activities that                                            ESP Secretariat
                    attempted to                                               Staff Training
Teacher payroll     reconcile the
verification        payroll. There was                                         Financial and
                    a second study                                             Procurement
ESP Secretariat     done by the                                                Audits
Coordination and    African
Operational Costs   Development Bank
                    in 2011/12. There
ESP Secretariat     was a draft report
Staff Training      provided by AfDB
                    and the GOSL now
Financial and       needs to take some
Procurement         action on the
Audits.             recommendations.
Source: Amended table from Annex 5 of Restructuring Paper, dated 12/28/2011.




                                                 34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

72. A mission to Sierra Leone took place in January 2013 to collect data for an ex-post
economic and financial analysis of the EFA FTI Project. The results of this analysis are
presented in this Annex.

73. In summary, there is evidence of substantial efficiency in the use of project funds, with
unit costs for project activities and inputs all falling close to or below average costs from Sierra
Leone or other countries in the region. The fact that independent validations found that inputs,
on the whole, have reached the intended beneficiaries and are being used is also viewed very
positively from an efficiency or value-for-money standpoint.

74. At the time of preparation of this ICR (February 2013), the financial loss sustained from
the non-completion of all civil works stands at around 3 percent of total project disbursements
(or around US$ 340,000). The Government of Sierra Leone has guaranteed the completion of
all outstanding civil works at their expense.

75. From an economic standpoint, project funds have generally been invested in activities or
inputs that are known to produce high returns (such as de-worming, teaching and learning
materials) and were needed in the country (classrooms, school furniture). This annex provides
some estimates of the cost-effectiveness of the JSS girls’ tuition subsidies and the de-worming
of school-age children. The project also scores highly in terms of providing employment and
income opportunities within Sierra Leone, given that school construction was done by national
companies and school furniture were built by local craftsmen.

76. There is potentially a fiscal impact of the project, since it finances system expansion (new
schools) and teacher upgrading (which, in principle, qualifies teachers for higher salaries), but
these higher costs are within the parameters set out in the Education Sector Plan and costed out
in the associated financial simulation model. Thus, the fiscal impact is not additional to
projected costs for the sub-sector.

                                    Financial Analysis

   A. Value for Money of School Infrastructure

77. Unit costs for construction of primary and JSS schools fall close to unit costs of
comparable projects in and outside of Sierra Leone (see Table A3.1). Given Sierra Leones
post-conflict situation at the time, this is quite an achievement, since post-conflict states often
have less developed private sectors and under-developed road networks. The cost per
classroom of FTI-funded schools was US$13,225 (or approximately US$11,425 excluding well
and latrines). These are a little higher than the unit costs of the 2009 UNICEF funded schools
in Sierra Leone, but the difference can be explained by a simpler design of the UNICEF
schools. The gross cost of construction per square meter was about US$183 for the FTI
schools; this compared quite well with average figures for school construction for Sub-Saharan
African countries as shows in Table A3.1.




                                             35
78. There is no evidence of very low bids for school construction . Too low bids were cited
by the MEST as one of the reasons for some contractors failing to complete construction. But a
review of all contract amounts showed significant consistency in bid amounts across all
contracts.

79. The loss sustained from non-completion of some civil works amounts to about 3
percent of total project disbursements, and the Ministry of Finance has made a
commitment to ensure their completion. This estimated loss can be calculated as the cost of
completing the 30 classrooms (50% completed), 17 water wells (0% completed) and 15 sets of
latrines (0% completed), that were reported as incomplete during the January 2013 ICR
mission. The cost of completion these can be estimated at US$340,000 (assuming unit costs of
US$11,425 per classroom, US$3,000 per water well, and US$ 7,800 for a full set of latrines
(2x3)).

Table A3.1: Unit costs of construction of primary and JSS schools, Sierra Leone EFA FTI Project,
approximately 2010
                                                   Primary schools                      JSS schools
Description of works                         6-classroom primary school           3-classroom JSS school
                                          All schools include an office, a store, a well with hand pump,
                                           and 2 3-compartment latrines. Classrooms measure 20x28
                                            feet ~ 52 square meters. Schools were built by small and
                                             medium-sized contractors, procured through NCB, and
                                           contracted by Local Councils. Construction materials were
                                          available locally, and communities would even help provide
                                                                certain materials.
Average cost per classroom, incl.                       13,225                             15,439
office, store, well and latrines (US$)
Average cost per classroom, incl.                       11,425                          11,839
office and store (US$)
Average cost per gross m2, excl. well                    183                                -
and latrines (US$, 2010 prices)
Comparator costs Sub-Saharan                    ~200 (all projects)                         -
Africa (US$ per gross m2, 2006               ~175 (local gov. managed)
prices)                                     ~110 (community managed)
Comparator costs from UNICEF
Sierra Leone (NGOs construction)
    --Cost per classroom, incl. office,                 11,754                              -
    store, well and latrines (US$ 2009
    prices)
    --Cost per classroom, incl. office                  10,144                              -
    and store (US$, 2009 prices)
Note: Exchange rate used for EFA FTI project data is 4,150 Le/USD as of end-2010.
Source: Project data. Comparator data are from Theunynck (2009): ‘School Construction Strategies for
Universal Primary Education in Africa’, The World Bank, which is based on the review of over 200
projects in Sub-Saharan Africa.

80. Unit costs paid for furniture for the FTI primary schools are below average unit
costs from 10 Sub-Saharan African countries. In the FTI project, the cost of furnishing
schools was US$930 per classroom in primary schools, which is well below the 2006 average
of US$1,605 for 10 other countries in the region. The cost of furnishing the JSS schools is



                                                   36
higher, at US$2,641 per classroom. No comparator figure has been found for JSS school
furniture. The significant difference in the cost between primary and JSS school furniture may
be partly explained by the fact that JSS school furniture is larger.

Table A3.2: Unit costs of furnishing primary and JSS schools, Sierra Leone EFA FTI Project,
approximately 2010
                                            Primary schools                        JSS schools
Description of furniture                90 3-seaters for students,          60 2-seaters for students,
provided to each school               6 teacher tables and chairs,        3 teacher tables and chairs,
                                         1 office table and chair,           1 office table and chair,
                                            1 office cupboard                   1 office cupboard
                                   (all produced by local craftsmen    (all produced by local craftsmen
                                         using locally available             using locally available
                                                materials)                          materials)
Number of schools in each                            6                                   3
Local Council, for which                     (2 new schools+                     (1 new school+
furniture were provided                 4 schools ‘in dire need’)           2 schools ‘in dire need’)
Average cost per school (US$)1                     5,581                               7,922
Average cost per classroom                          930                                2,641
(US$, 2010 prices)
Comparator: Average cost of                      1,605                           No reference
furnishing a classroom, based         (range 1,110 in Uganda to                figures available
on data from 10 SSA countries            2,200 in Mauritania)
(US$, 2006 prices)
Note: Exchange rate used is 4,150 Le/USD as of end-2010.
Source: Project data. Comparator data are from Theunynck (2009): ‘School Construction Strategies for
Universal Primary Education in Africa’, The World Bank.

81. Other unit costs also show evidence of good value for money for such activities as
subsidies to girls’ JSS tuition, teacher training, deworming and teaching and learning materials
(Table XX). The unit cost of deworming, for example, is the same as internationally cited costs
of US$0.50 per child per year for two rounds of deworming. The fact that the project had
independent validations carried out confirming that teaching & learning materials, furniture,
and deworming had reached schools/students, further support the case made for substantial
project efficiency.

Table A3.3: Other unit costs (actuals), Sierra Leone EFA FTI Project, approximately 2010
                              Unit cost (SLL)            Unit cost (US$)         Explanatory notes
Tuition subsidy to girls in                              US$14 per child       Covers about half of full
JSS                                                                                  JSS tuition
Teacher training, in-                                   US$169 per teacher
service
Teacher training, 1-year                                US$462 per teacher          Cost includes
distance (Training                                                                subsistence during
upgraded unqualified                                                            college-based training
teachers to qualified for                                                              sessions
lower primary)
Deworming                                            US$0.25 per child per       Includes est. cost of
                                                            year               medication (US$0.04 per
                                                                                 child), although the
                                                                               project did not finance it



                                                   37
Pens, pencils, rulers            Pencils 90-110            Pencils 0.02-0.03            NCB procurement
erasers                             Pens 160                   Pens 0.04
                                   Rulers 320                 Rulers 0.08
                                  Erasers 240                Erasers 0.06
Exercise books                 800-1,900 per book       0.19-0.46 per book              NCB procurement,
                                                                                       prices vary based on
                                                                                         number of pages
Supplementary reading,
primary grades 1-3
   Lot 4&5                                                US$1.36 per book              NCB procurement
   Lot 6                                                US$0.41-0.47 per book           ICB procurement
Supplementary reading,
primary grades 4-6
   Lot 4&5                                                 US$1.53 per book             NCB procurement
   Lot 6                                                      0.32-0.41                 ICB procurement
Note: Exchange rates used are 4,150 Le/USD as of end-2010, and 0.645 GBP/USD.

82. Exchange rate gains led to undisbursed funds at the end of the project. Compared
with the unit costs shown above, the project achieved some savings resulting from delays in
implementation leading to exchange rate gains (the EFA FTI grant is in US$, whilst some
contracts were made out in Leones). This largely explains why not all project funds were
disbursed.

   B. Evolution in Public Spending on Education
83. The GPE grant did not replace government spending on education. The level of
public spending on education in Sierra Leone remained stable from the time of project approval
(2008) to 2010, while data on public spending in 2011 and 2012 are not yet available. Public
education spending measured in constant prices grew by 14 percent between the two years, and
from 2.6 to 2.8 percent of the country’s GDP.

Table A3.4: Evolution in government spending on education, 2008-10
                                                                 2008                 2009             2010
Total education spending (million Leone, 2010 prices)          242,979               276,560         277,682
Education spending as % of GDP                                   2.6%                 2.9%             2.8%
Source: Chapter 1 of 2013 draft Country Status Report on Education for Sierra Leone, based on MoFED data.

84. There is potentially a fiscal impact of the project, since it finances new schools that
will require maintenance and teacher upgrading which, in principle, qualifies the newly
qualified teachers for higher salaries (although these higher salaries have not yet been awarded,
according to information collected during the ICR mission). In any case, the increase in the
salary envelope may be quite modest, given information provided in the Country Status Report,
showing that the difference in salaries between unqualified and (starting) qualified teachers
may only be around US$ 50-100 a year 7 . In any case, these higher costs are within the


7
 The difference between salary grades 3 and 4 is about US$ 50 a year, while the difference
between salary grades 2 and 4 is about US$ 100 a year.




                                                      38
parameters set out in the Education Sector Plan and costed out in the associated financial
simulation model.

                                                          Economic Analysis

85. The economic analysis provides an estimation of the cost-effectiveness of two project
interventions that aimed to keep children and youth in school: (i) the incentives to girls’ JSS
participation, and (ii) the de-worming of school-age children. Also, a discussion is included of
the distribution of schools and other inputs provided by the project.

          A. Incentives for girls’ JSS participation

86. The background for providing girls with tuition subsidies for JSS is the persistent gap
between girls’ and boys’ rates of participation in JSS. Figure A3.1 shows the size of the gender
gap at the beginning and end of the JSS cycle in 2010: while there is only a little gap at entry to
JSS (grade 7), there is a sizable gap by grade 9. Only 35 percent of girls attain grade 9
compared with 51 percent of boys.

Figure A3.1: School attainment by grade and gender in Sierra Leone, 2010

                            100     86
   Cohort access rate (%)




                             80             68
                                    86               60
                             60                              51
                                            65                                        Boys
                                                     57                35     32
                             40                                                       Girls

                             20                              35
                                                                       20
                              0                                               14
                                  Grade 1 Grade 6 Grade 7 Grade 9 Grade 10 Grade 12

Note: The cohort access rates are the likelihoods that children will ever attain the grades shown; it is not
exactly the same as current enrollments in those grades.
Source: Sierra Leone Country Status Report 2012 (draft) based on data from MICS IV, 2010.

87. Government subsidy of girls’ JSS tuition has existed since 2002, and the project funded
the subsidies of the current 2012/13 school year. The subsidy per girl is US$14 per year and
there are now around 75,000 girls enrolled in JSS. Many of the girls enrolled would likely have
enrolled in JSS even without these subsidies, so the impact of the tuition subsidy would depend
on how many additional girls enroll and stay in school due to the subsidy. When the program
was first introduced in 2002, there was a large jump in girls’ JSS enrollments (from 30,000 to
50,000 girls), but no increase in the share of girls (39 percent of all enrollment), as boys’
enrollments were also increasing rapidly at the time (Figure A3.2). Data from that time period,
however, may not have been that reliable, as the collection of education statistics had just
resumed and did not follow the protocols in place today. In the absence of more reliable data,
we cannot definitively assess if there was an increase in girls’ enrollment that can be attributed
to the subsidies. The share of girls in total JSS enrollments did increase later on, in particular


                                                                  39
between 2008 and 2010/11, when it grew from 40.9 percent to 45 percent, as reported in the
project’s result framework.

Figure A3.2: Trend in JSS enrollments by gender, 2000/01-2004/05
                             100
   Enrollments (thousands)




                              80

                              60
                                                                                      JSS M
                              40                                                      JSS F

                              20

                               0
                                   2000/01   2001/02   2002/03   2003/04   2004/05
Source: Appendix D in World Bank (2007). Education in Sierra Leone: Present Challenges, Future Opportunities.

88. Given that we cannot reliably assess the increase in girls’ enrollment as a result of the
subsidy, for illustrative purposes, we assume the increase is 2 percentage-points, which seems
reasonable given the data shown above. Under this brave assumption, an additional 5,860 girls
attend JSS, bringing the cost for one additional girl in JSS for one year at US$179, or US$538
for the whole JSS cycle. This calculation is merely an example to illustrate how to get at the
cost-effectiveness of such an intervention.

Table A3.5: Illustrative example: Impact of JSS tuition subsidy on girls’ enrollment under certain
assumptions
                     Girls         Boys          All          % girls        GPI      Subsidy per
                                                                                       additional
                                                                                       girl in JSS
Without             69,140        91,667       160,807         43%           0.75
subsidy
With subsidy        75,000        91,667       166,667         45%           0.82
Change               5,860          0           5,860        2%-point        0.07       US$ 179

89. How long is there a need to sustain this subsidy scheme? Once girls enroll and complete
JSS at the same rate of boys (and this may only be a few years away), the tuition subsidy may
be better targeted to rural or needy children, since there are very wide gaps in JSS enrollment
between rural and urban households and between those from the richest and poorest income
quintiles.

           B. De-worming of school-age children

90. The project funded the de-worming treatment of school-age children once yearly in 2011
and 2012, complementing another yearly treatment regimen funded by another program.
Teachers and communities were also provided with health education related to personal and
community hygiene and water and sanitation, as these are important for worm control. The
WHO recommends the twice yearly deworming of school-age children in Sierra Leone in order
to: (i) reduce anemia, underweight, stunting, absenteeism and poor cognition; (ii) improve


                                                                  40
school attendance, performance and achievement; and (iii) improve future wage earning
potential and gross domestic product (GDP). Table A3.6 presents the number of children
treated and the cost of treatment (and unit cost) in both years.

Table A3.6: Data on the de-worming activity of the Sierra Leone EFA FTI project, 2011 and 2012
       Number         Number of children reached        Project   Financing % coverage (assessed
          of                                           financing  per child through independent
                   Enrolled     Non-         Total
       districts                       1                 (US$)     (US$)2    validation within a
                              enrolled
       covered                                                               week of distribution)
2011       8        628,733      23,097      651,830      160,000        0.25              87%
2012       12       1,053,865    119,095    1,172,960     250,000        0.21              85%
    1
      On the pre-advertised national de-worming day, non-enrolled school-age children come to the school
    to receive treatment along with enrolled children.
    2
      To this should be added the cost of the drugs, which was donated in this case; the cost is about 3
    cents per child plus some transportation costs.


91. Sierra Leone previously had some of the highest rates of infection in the world, but
levels are now under control due to regular de-worming. Due to poor access to water and
sanitation, regular de-worming is still necessary, and infection rates would return to
previous levels, if treatment was discontinued. The impact of de-worming on schooling
outcomes have not been measured in Sierra Leone, but evidence exists from other countries.
Miguel and Kremer8 found that a school-based mass de-worming program in Kenya increased
schooling by 0.15 years per pupil treated9. Given that each pupil needs twice-yearly treatment
at US$0.25 for each, the cost of 0.15 additional school years is US$0.50, which brings the
cost for a whole additional school year for one child to roughly US$3.50 , an often cited
figure in international publications. This cost is comparatively low compared with the cost of
many other interventions to support school participation, such as school feeding or other
demand incentives.

92. Despite the inexpensive treatment available, parents typically do not give their children
the de-worming treatment due to lack of awareness. Therefore, and because of the public health
externalities (treated children reduce the transmission to untreated individuals in their
communities, also documented by Miguel and Kremer), government intervention in the de-
worming of school-age children is justified.

    C. School inputs and their distribution

93. The project funded school construction (including wells, latrines and furniture) and
teaching and learning materials. Due to the over-crowding of classrooms documented in the
first Country Status Report for Sierra Leone, school construction was justified. A survey of
schools in 2008 found the average student-classroom ratio to be 76, but with considerable


8
  Miguel and Kremer (2004). Worms: Identifying Impacts on Education and Health in the Presence of
Treatment Externalities. Econometrica, Vol. 72, No.1.
9
  Glewwe and Kremer (2005). Schools, Teachers and Education Outcomes in Developing Countries.



                                                  41
variation across regions.10 Similarly, it made sense to fund teaching and learning materials due
to the shortage of such materials in classrooms.

94. The distribution of school inputs to schools, however, did not happen in the most
equitable or economically most efficient way, since they were simply distributed in equal
shares to every Local Councils, despite large differences in the enrollment/population number.
This was apparently due to shortage of data, or lack of trust in available data, and this method
of distribution was perceived as fair and equitable in the Sierra Leone context at the time. It
was therefore appropriate at the time given the country’s fragility status, and the importance of
not contributing to any additional conflict over resources.

95. Looking ahead, however, given that Local Councils have widely different school-age
population and enrollment numbers, school inputs should either be distributed in a spatially
more equitable way, or to where the greatest needs are (and therefore the highest marginal
returns).




10
     Baseline survey of schools done as part of a World Bank textbook impact evaluation.




                                                      42
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Eunice Yaa Brimfah Ackwerh Education Specialist               AFTEW Task Team Leader
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti,    Procurement Specialist             AFTPW Procurement
Mercy Miyang Tembon        Education Specialist               HDNED Education
Robert Wallace Degraft                                              Financial
                           Financial Management Specialist    AFTMW
Hanson                                                              Management
                                                                    Financial
Samuel Bruce-Smith          Financial Management Consultant   AFTEW
                                                                    Management
Manush Hristov             Sr. Legal Counsel                  LEGEN Lawyer
Beatrix Allah Memsah       Social Development Specialist      AFTCS Governance
Fatu Karim-Turay           Team Assistant                     AFMSL Administrative
Ernestina Aboah-Ndow       Program Assistant                  AFCW1 Administrative
Supervision/ICR
Eunice Yaa Brimfah Ackwerh Senior Education Specialist        AFTEW  Task Team Leader
Susan Hirshberg            Senior Education Specialist        AFTEE  Task Team Leader
Bidemi Carrol              Consultant                         AFTEW  Implementation
Ernestina Aboah-Ndow       Program Assistant                  AFCA1  Administrative
                                                                     Financial
Joyce Olubukola Agunbiade Financial Management Specialist     AFTMW
                                                                     Management
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti      Procurement Specialist             AFTA1 Procurement
Samuel Bruce-Smith          Consultant                         AFTDE Education
Peter Darvas                Sr Education Economist            AFTEW General Education
Donald B. Hamilton          Consultant                        AFTEW General Education
Manush A. Hristov           Senior Counsel                     LEGEN Lawyer
Anders Jensen               Senior Monitoring & Evaluation     AFTDE M&E
Fatu Karim-Turay            Team Assistant                    AFMSL Administrataive
Adama Ouedraogo             Senior Education Specialist       AFTEW Education
                                                                     Financial
Oluwole Pratt               Financial Management Analyst      AFTME
                                                                     Management
Kristine Schwebach          Operations Analyst                 AFTCS Operations
Serge Theunynck             Consultant                         AFTEE Education
Xiao Ye                     Economist                          AFRCE Economics
Sandra Beemer               Consultant                        AFTEW ICR co-author
Kirsten Majgaard            Economist, Consultant             AFTEW ICR co-author
Rose-Claire Pakabomba       Program Assistant                 AFTEW Administrative
Christopher Gabelle         Sr. Governance Specialist          AFTP3 Governance
Mose Duphey                 Consultant                         AFTN3 Education
Viorel Vela                 Consultant                        AFTEW Education
Adama Ginorlei              Consultant                        AFMSL Administrative



                                            43
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                            Total:           N/A1                              0.00
Supervision/ICR
                              Total:              45.0                   252,290.00
1
The preparation costs for this project were provided by the EFA-FTI under the EPDF grant.




                                             44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                    46
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

96. Background. The EFA FTI Education Sector Project (the Project) to expand access and to
improve quality of basic education in Sierra Leone was approved on September 2, 2008 with the
funding of 13,900,000 US Dollars. The Project was declared effective on September 15, 2008. The
original Closing Date was June 30, 2010, with first extension to December 31, 2011 and later to
September 30, 2012. Implementation has been uneven, and the project required a moderate
restructuring and a second extension of nine months in order to complete some critical activities and
substantially achieve its development objective of “expanding access to and improve the quality of
basic education in Sierra Leone?. The Project Restructuring provided the time and appropriate support
to the MEST to complete ongoing activities related to learning materials and civil works, and better
mainstreamed the project across the MEST and other relevant ministries to ensure the project
investments were sustained.

97. Implementation Progress (an overview). The Sierra Leone EFA-FTI Project witnessed a
difficult start-up due to underestimated, yet common capacity constraints found in a Post Conflict
country, a focus on inputs which caused procurement delays, as well as other design issues including
premature mainstreaming of project implementation into the MEST without adequate support, as MEST
had 218 Vacancies in the professional wing as at commencement of the Project. The Closing Date was
extended in June 2010 to address the delay in effectiveness from when the grant was first awarded by
the EFA-FTI Board in May 2007 until effectiveness. However, the Project only gained momentum in
December 2010. As a result, several key project activities were not fully implemented or able to help
reach the development objectives. Furthermore, project indicators have proved difficult to measure
because baselines have been found to be faulty and a few of the indicators were not influenced by
project interventions. The project development objective (PDO) is aligned with Sierra Leone Education
Sector Plan (ESP 2007-2015) and was not modified during the restructuring programme. However,
several changes were made as in Table 1 below: (i) the PDO indicators and the intermediate outcome
indicators were modified to make them realistic and measurable; (ii) some of the project component
activities were also modified to ensure increased impact and to wrap-up the project in an orderly
fashion; (iii) flows of funds were adjusted to avoid delays and redundancy along with relevant
improvements reporting requirements;

Table 1
 Revisions to the Results Framework
 Indicators                                    Comments/ Rationale for Change


 PDO
 Current (PAD)         Proposed change*        Comments/ Rationale for Change
 To expand access to   No change
 and improve the
 quality of basic
 education in Sierra
 Leone
 PDO Level Results
 Indicators*




                                              47
Indicator One: Gross      Dropped                      The baseline (2004) and mid-term indicators have
Enrollment Rate (GER)                                  been found to be faulty, therefore measuring the
                                                       changes in GER over the life of the project would
                                                       be unreliable. GER is also influenced by ebbs and
                                                       flows common in a Post Conflict situation so that
                                                       trends are difficult to fully analyze and understand.




Indicator Two:
Percentage of pupils
who pass the NPSE
examination               Continued
Indicator Three:          New                          This is a core indicator for the Education Sector and
Primary School                                         a better measure of efficiency and quality. Recent
Completion                                             analysis found this to be reliable for two points in
                                                       time: 2004 and 2010. It will be measured again in
                                                       2011 for the final year of the project.



Indicator Four:                                        This will be reinforced by the Girls Incentive
Intermediate Result                                    Program.
indicator Four:
Percentage of girls       Continued: moved from
enrolled in junior        Intermediate Indicator to
secondary level           PDO level Indicator
Current (PAD)             Proposed change*             Comments/ Rationale for Change
INTERMEDIATE
RESULTS
Intermediate Result
(Component One):
Intermediate Result       Dropped                      The delay in project start up resulted in the activity
indicator One: Number                                  being funded by another EDP. A small amount was
of LCs which conduct                                   allocated to this activity, but not across all LCs.
fee-free awareness
campaigns based on
findings of out-of-
school study
Intermediate Result       Dropped                      Like the GER, baseline and mid-term data were
indicator Two: Number                                  faulty and not an accurate measure of the system in
of pupils enrolled at                                  a Post Conflict situation.
primary level

Intermediate Result
indicator Three:
Number of new entrants
into primary 1            Dropped                      Same as above.
Intermediate Result       Revised                      Revised downward from 318 to 285. Procurement
indicator Four:                                        and monitoring of civil works problematic and
Number of additional                                   addressed in the future through community-based
classrooms built or                                    initiatives.
rehabilitated at the
primary level resulting
from project
intervention
Intermediate Result
(Component Two):



                                                      48
 Intermediate Result         Continued
 indicator Five: Number
 of primary teachers who
 receive in-service
 training under the
 project
 Intermediate Result         Continued
 indicator Six: Number
 of junior secondary
 teachers who receive in-
 service training
 Intermediate Result                                        This was the wording of the core indicators
 indicator Seven:
 Number of teachers who
 enroll for the distance     Reworded and Revised
 education program           from: Number of new
 resulting in additional     teachers who enroll for the
 qualification               distance education program
 Intermediate Result         Dropped                        This aggregated number was not helpful in
 indicator Eight:                                           measuring improved learning. A Framework for
 Number of teaching and                                     developing a Learning Assessment for future use
 learning materials that                                    will be developed.
 are distributed to
 primary schools
 Intermediate Result
 (Component Three):
 Intermediate Result         Continued
 indicator Nine:
 Education Sector
 Annual Performance
 Review organized
 Intermediate Result         Dropped
 indicator Ten: Teacher
 payroll and salary
 verification exercise
 completed.

98. The progress achieved during the project implementation based on the revised indicators is
highlighted in the Table below:

99. Baseline data was collected in 2004-05 while drafting the Country Status Report (CSR), which is
currently being updated. All the project development indicators have been met or surpassed.

Project    Development      Baseline             Target                Actual (Current)       Comments
Indicators
Percentage of Students      72%                  72%                   75%                    Target       achieved.
who pass NPSE exams                                                                           Data to be updated
                                                                                              for 2011/12
Primary      Completion     61.8%                70%                   76%                    Target      exceeded.
Rate                                                                                          Data to be updated
                                                                                              for    2011/12      (if
                                                                                              possible)
Percentage of girls in      40.9%                45%                   45%                    Target       achieved.
junior secondary school                                                                       Data to be updated
                                                                                              for 2011/12.

Intermediate Results Indicators          Baseline           Target         Actual             Comments
                                                                           (Current)
Number      of    new       classrooms                      285            255* (presently)   Further update from



                                                           49
constructed under the project                                                        Ministry of Finance
                                                                                     that have returned
                                                                                     from the Monitoring
                                                                                     Visit.        MEST
                                                                                     awaiting      report.
                                                                                     MOFED agreed to
                                                                                     fund completion of
                                                                                     remaining
                                                                                     classrooms.
Number of primary teachers who                       1000           1000             Target achieved
receive in-service training under the
project
Number of Junior Secondary teachers                  260            260              Target achieved
who receive in-service training
Number of new teachers who enroll                    300            1000             Target surpassed
for the distance education program
Education Sector Annual Performance                  3              3                Target achieved
Review organized

100. Project Components. The project components which were to: (i) expand access to basic
education, (ii) improve the quality of teaching and increase access to learning materials, and (iii)
enhance coordination and management of the education sector were not changed in the restructuring.
All investments continued to support progress in the areas of improving access, quality and program
management. However, some activities were dropped because they were financed and undertaken with
support from another agency during the delay in project effectiveness from May 2007 until September
15, 2008 (e.g.: the Out of School Study and Awareness Campaigns). New activities were added to shift
away from an input based-approach to working on incremental, systemic improvements in service
delivery (e.g.: Girls’ Incentive Program). The Grant Agreement was therefore revised to be less
specific, and to broaden the scope of activities which are financed and undertaken to support achieving
the development objective of expanding access to and improving the quality of basic education.
Activities which are not in the purview of the MEST or feasible in the context of a project of this size
and scope (e.g.: teacher payroll system) were dropped. The revised components as in the signed
Amendment Letter of December 29, 2011 are as follows:

       (a)        Implementation of activities aimed at expanding access to basic education which
       may include, inter alia: (i) construction and rehabilitation of various school facilities
       including ancillary facilities such as latrines and water supply; (ii) incentives for girls at the
       Junior Secondary School level to attend and stay in school; and (iii) Local Council and
       Community-based awareness activities to promote Basic Education.
       (b)        Implementation of activities aimed at improving teaching and learning and
       increasing the presence and use of learning materials in the classroom which may include,
       inter alia: (i) provision of learning materials, teacher training and furniture; (ii) assessment
       of training provided through the project for primary and JSS teachers; and (iii) other
       activities which may improve the ability of children to learn (e.g.: deworming or other
       interventions).
       (c)        Provision of support for the coordination, day-to-day management, monitoring
       and evaluation, and financial and procurement audits of the Program and the Project.

    A. Improving Access

101. Outstanding construction of Classrooms, Water Wells and 2X3 Ventilated Improved Pit
(VIP) Latrines: Most components were completed; Even though 255 of the 285 Classrooms (89%), 40
of the 57 Water Wells with hand pump (70.2%) and 42 sets of 57 sets of VIP Latrines (74%) were
completed, civil works still remains a challenge with several issues to be addressed. Several meetings


                                                   50
between the ESP Secretariat and the defaulting Contractors have been held to chart the way forward.
All have indicated that they would commence the works by pre-financing them whilst awaiting the
funds to be provided by the Government of Sierra Leone. Following these meetings, MEST and
MOFED had a meeting on January 7, 2013 and the following decisions were reached:

               The meeting agreed that the Government of Sierra Leone will finance the
                completion of the remaining Classrooms, Water Wells and VIP Latrines as
                indicated in the attached Letter of Commitment from the Ministry of Finance and
                Economic Development on behalf of the Government of Sierra Leone (See
                Annex 1).
               It was agreed that if funds disbursed to any contractor exceeds work done, such
                contractor will be requested to complete work in line with funds disbursed within
                a time frame or else the contract will be terminated and the contract re-awarded
                and ultimately, such a contractor will be demanded to refund any money received
                in excess of work accomplished, then black-listed, and in severe cases face the
                Anti Corruption Commission.
                In similar vein, the meeting agreed that if work done is in excess of funds
                disbursed, the contractor will be required to submit a valid performance bond to
                facilitate the disbursement of funds and completion of works.

102. Girl child Support Initiative. The 1st disbursement with respect to the payment of tuition fees
for 50,648 JSS girls has been completed. A 2nd disbursement became necessary due to the variance
between the enrolment figures of girls at JSS submitted by some Principals and that of the Census data.
Having addressed this anomaly, the 2nd request for No Objection has been received from the World
Bank for payment for an additional 24,213 girls in these affected schools. MEST is now awaiting the
disbursement of the funds from the Loans Disbursement Group of the World Bank based at Chennai,
India. There was extensive validation of the girls’ enrolment data by the three Civil Society
Organizations, namely Every Child Matters, Centre for Local Government, Decentralisation and the
Environment (CLOGADE), and Education For All (EFA) Coalition Sierra Leone. The parents and the
rest of the Community were sensitized on the process of payment using Bill Boards, Fliers, Handbills,
Radio Discussions and Jingles. For ease of implementation of subsequent Girl Child support activities,
the process will be documented in an Operational Manual.

    B. Improving Quality of Teaching and Learning

103. The intermediate indicator’s target was achieved when In-service training was provided for 1000
primary and 260 JSS teachers on teaching methodology and classroom management nationwide. In the
case of training using the Distance mode the target of 300 teachers were surpassed as 1,000 untrained
and unqualified teachers gained their teaching certificate. Following this, a comprehensive evaluation of
the one-year distance education teacher training program was recently completed. The evaluation
found, inter alia, that the untrained and unqualified (UU) Teacher Training Programme was an
appropriate teacher supply strategy given the post-conflict circumstances at the time of its inception.
Over five thousand untrained and unqualified primary school teachers in the rural areas were trained
between 2008 and 2012. Although the results of classroom observation of the trained teachers and
anecdotal evidence indicated satisfactory performance, the examination results showed that majority of
the teachers did not perform well.
             The evaluation recommended, inter alia, re-design of the programme if it should be
             adopted as a normal mode of training primary school teachers in the rural areas.
             Open and Distance Learning (ODL) features and principles should characterize its
             delivery. The yet-to-be established National Institute of Education, Training and
             Research (NIETAR) should assume responsibility for in-service training of teachers.


                                                51
(i)         International consultant facilitated the development of a Learning Assessment
            Framework, and trained 50 participants on test item writing. Participants’ developed
            an item question bank that will be used for upcoming national assessment. School
            and teacher questionnaires were also developed and piloted for future use.
(ii)        An international and local consultant developed a framework for the JSS curriculum
            after extensive consultations across the country with a wide group of people.
(iii)       School Management Committees (SMCs) Training: Training was conducted for
            50 SMCs per district, a total of 7,000 members in 14 educational districts. The
            objectives of the training were to improve their governance and managerial skills
            with reference to:
           increasing the knowledge of SMCs on school management/functions
           ensuring effective and efficient functioning of SMCs countrywide and more
            especially to
           capacitate them as school heads will be signing a Performance Contract with the
            Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. In the Contract, SMCs have been
            given prominent roles which are critical to the effective functioning of the schools
            and to the evaluation of the school heads.
(iv)        School-based de-worming. MEST in collaboration with the National School and
            Adolescence Health Program, National Neglected Tropical Disease Control Program,
            of Ministry Of Health and Sanitation and Helen Keller International conducted the
            school-based de-worming exercise on 30 May 2012 in 12 districts. This was an
            increase of four districts over 2011, and the number of children covered nearly
            doubled from nearly 650,000 to over 1.2 million. The report of the de-worming
            exercise, which was launched September 18, 2012, revealed that 85 percent of
            primary school children in the districts were de-wormed, which is well above the
            WHO expectation of 75 percent. This activity was aimed at providing access and
            improving school attendance Ministry noted that it was also essential to ensure that
            children attending primary schools are in good health, well nourished and mentally
            alert in order for them to be receptive to education during these critical years.
(v)         Procurement and Distribution of Teaching and Learning Materials. Several
            textbooks for Primary and JSS pupils were printed in Braille by the Education Centre
            for the Blind and Visually Impaired and distributed to the 6 schools for the blind in
            the following districts-Bo, Kenema, Western Area, Kono, Bombali and Koinadugu.
            The first set includes 162 Primary English text Bks 1-6; Structural English (108
            copies-Bks 1-3); Social Studies (157 copies-bks 1-6); Primary Science (93 copies-
            Bks3-6): The second set consists of 350 sets of brailled Primary School
            Supplementary Readers and 100 copies of brailled Social Studies textbooks for blind
            JSS pupils; The third set is made up of 100 sets of brailled English and Integrated
            Science textbooks for blind JSS pupils; Also for the normal school children was
            850,000 sets of pens, pencils, erasers and rulers, exercise books and 1, 700,000
            Supplementary readers.
(vi)        Procurement and Distribution of Furniture. A total of (10,260) 3-seater pupil desk
            and chairs + 684 sets of teachers’ desks and chairs+ 114 sets of Office Tables and
            Chairs+ 114 Cupboards for primary Schools and 8,075 sets of 2-seater desks and
            chairs for JSS pupils + 171 sets of teachers desks and chairs + 57 sets of Office
            Tables and Chairs+ 57 Cupboards provided at JSS level. This furniture was for the
            EFA-FTI schools and those in dire need. The Local Councils were permitted to
            identify and distribute to the schools they deemed to be ‘dire need schools’.




                                               52
    C. Enhancing Coordination and Management of the Sector

104. School Census. The printed 2010/2011 School Census Report (Vol. 1) has been launched.
Funding for the data analysis, report writing and launching ceremony by Hi.s Excellency the President
on the 12th June 2012 was provided by the EFA-FTI Project. This report is divided into two main
parts/sections – (i) the schools and (ii) the students. Each section is further subdivided into three main
sub-sections-(i) National and regional (ii) local councils and (iii) changes. There are two additional sub-
sections under ‘the students’ section-(i) other enrolment issues and (ii) comparison with JSS girls’
education support programme numbers. The Vol 2-‘Teacher Section’ of the Report is outstanding. Full
funding support for the 2011.2012 census is from the EFA-FTI funds. Data for 2011/2012 school
census has been collected, undergone consistency checks and are presently been analysed. The training
of enumerators for school census to be conducted in 2013 has also been done with EFA-FTI funds.

105. Capacity Building of MEST Staff. Computer Training for 250 professional and administrative
staff of MEST (186 staff in the North and West and 64 staff in South and East Regions): As part of its
staff development strategy, the Ministry with funds provided by the Global Partnership for Education
(GPE) Secretariat, undertook a computer training exercise as part of its in-service training programmes
to enhance the computing skills of its staff located at Headquarters in the Western Area and in Districts
in the North (Bombali, Port Loko, Kambia, Koinadugu and Tonkolili), East (Kenema, Kono, Kailahun )
and the South (Bo, Moyamba, Pujehun, Bonthe ) regions of the Country.
           The training was on Microsoft packages and focussed specifically on the following five
           basic modules:
                         Introduction to MS-Windows
                         Word Processing with Microsoft Word
                         Spreadsheet with Microsoft Excel
                         Microsoft PowerPoint
                         Internet
           In order to be able to achieve this task, it was necessary for the Ministry of Education,
           Science and Technology to have the necessary support in terms of technical assistance.
           In this regard, MEST with No Objection from the World Bank hired 2 (two) national
           consulting firms with the requisite experience and technical expertise to undertake this
           activity.
     (i) 10 MEST Staff trained in South Africa, 7 on M&E, and 3 staff form the ESP Secretariat
           in Financial Management, Project Management and Procurement methods.
     (ii) Improvement in communication amongst MEST Officials and between MEST and
           Partners through the Installation of Local Area Network (LAN) Connectivity and PABX
           Intercom system.
     (iii) ESP Secretariat established with the recruitment of 3 (Three) additional staff, namely, the
           Finance Officer, Programme Assistant and Finance Assistant to join the Education Sector
           Plan Coordinator. The aim of this recruitment was to give support to the ESP Coordinator
           in ensuring that the ESP is implemented well.

106. Challenges. The EFA-FTI Project implementation delays have been largely caused both by
MEST internal institutional issues as well as slow, unclear communication and poor coordination
between the Bank and MEST.

107. Firstly, the Project’s lifespan was for 3 years in accordance with the implementation plan for the
basic education activities. Sierra Leone was received into full EFA-FTI partnership by the EFA FTI
Expanded Catalytic Fund Strategy Committee meeting in Bonn (Germany) in May, 2007 with the
approval of US$13.9 million for activities towards achieving universal basic education. Immediately



                                                 53
following thereafter, was the introduction of new EFA-FTI guidelines that should govern the project’s
implementation. Several appeals from the Government of Sierra Leone and the in-country Education
Development Partners to the EFA-FTI Secretariat to allow us to operate under the old guidelines at the
time the grant was being allocated was to no avail. Prompt response from the Bank would have avoided
delays in MEST fulfilling the newly introduced requisite conditions before the grant agreement could
be finally signed a year later on the 15th September 2008. Added to the initial delay, it must be
considered that for the grant to be effective, it had to be further ratified by the Parliament of the
Republic of Sierra Leone, which was done on December 16, 2008. Thus, it should be noted that though
the grant was allocated in 2007, the first tranche of US$3,000,000 (Three Million United Sates Dollars)
was only received on 3 June 2009, two years later as a result of the reasons stated above.

108. Secondly, it was agreed that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology will mainstream
and implement project activities without a Project Coordinating/Implementation Unit (PCU/PIU) as was
the case in the previous education projects. The Officials in the Ministry were to be fully responsible for
the project’s implementation with support from the Decentralisation Secretariat (DECSEC) and the
Local Government Finance Department (LGFD) working on devolved basic education activities. MEST
had to therefore grapple with and resolved a number of issues as follows:
     The ESP Secretariat in the Ministry was understaffed. It was the responsibility of one
         coordinator and the job was too big.
     The former head of Procurement Unit died and getting a replacement took some time
     The Principal Accountant and the present Procurement Manager were new and had to be
         oriented on their duties, especially with reference to World Bank procedures.
     The new Procurement Manager being an administrator and not a staff in the professional
         wing of MEST was transferred to another Ministry bringing all ongoing procurement
         activities to a temporary halt.
     A new Administrative Head (Permanent Secretary) took up position in the Ministry in
         April 2010 in the middle of the project implementation and had to be acquainted with the
         EFA-FTI Project and implementation issues as he was a Principal Signatory to the
         designated account held at the local bank.
     Delays by line Ministry (MOFED) in processing Withdrawal Applications.
     The Procurement and Finance officers of the 19 Local councils also had some capacity
         issues on relevant procurement and financial management practices
     The Memorandum of Understanding for contributing partners with the regards to the
         operation of the pooled fund was only signed in August 2009.
     The mainstreaming of the project has also clearly brought out the challenge of key
         personnel in MEST (Procurement Manager, Principal Accountant), members of LGFD
         and DECSEC handling additional duties outside of their normal schedules.
     Finally, the Loans Disbursement Group in Chennai should always and promptly indicate
         shortfalls or gaps in Withdrawal Applications received for the Government to avoid
         delays in the processing.

109. Additionally, some of the above constraints stemmed from the following issues:
       Insufficient orientation to MEST on changes in World Bank procedures during the
           initial and follow-up process
       Unclear guidelines on the level of flexibility deemed acceptable in the
           implementation of the work plan and on the reprogramming of the funds
       Unclear guidelines on which level of activities in the plan would require no-objection
           from the Bank
       Delays in processing no-objection requests



                                                 54
          Slow follow-up from Bank to rectify procedures where MEST may have not fully
           satisfied World Bank requirements
          Inconsistencies in Chennai and local World Bank Office responses to MEST’ queries
           in the case of unclear procedures
          Lack of clarity related to the position of Sierra Leone with regards to the EPDF fund
           and of the objectives of the EPDF- and communication from the Bank to the EDP
           group regarding the fact that the Catalytic Grant (all for capacity building around
           Procurement, Finance and EMIS for reporting) could be used to cover these activities
           was only received in early November 2010, after the initial submission for the EPDF
           monies was submitted to WB Accra in Feb 2009, and after numerous edits and
           appraisals of the application by the EDP Group and resubmissions to WB Accra.
          Although the fund follows IDA procurement rules, processes also have to satisfy
           National Procurement Procedures. Delays have been caused by these National
           Procedures even when IDA no objection has been granted.
          TTL was not based in Freetown – need more support from the Country Office. This
           led to Communication issues with the Bank.
          Monitoring of Civil Works was a challenge for the Education Sector Plan (ESP)
           Secretariat as the staff were instructed by the Bank to concentrate on coordinating the
           implementation of the Project and not being involved in monitoring and tracking
           Civil Works for which the Bank had indicated that the LC Engineers and DECSEC
           were more than competent to undertake the monitoring. The result was that the ESP
           Secretariat acting on the submission of the reports and requests for payment,
           including valuation certificates from LCs through LGFD of the Ministry of Finance,
           before the funding modality was modified, effected payments on the supposition of
           the competence and reliability stressed by the Bank. This was proved negative when
           subsequent monitoring by the ESP Secretariat and the independent engineering
           company contracted by the Bank observed that the reports and payment requests did
           not match with what was actually on the ground.

110. Revised Institutional arrangements. As a result of the above challenges leading to the
restructuring of the project, the following points provided evidence of the Government’s and World
Bank’s effort to improve the project implementation:

(a)     the original design of the project and the resulting work plan, which focused mainly on inputs
that led to procurement delays, has been redesigned to focus on activities that would impact on system
change and quality, thereby improving the implementation profile;
(b)     other relevant ministries (Finance, Local Government) and units (Decentralization Secretariat),
Local Government Finance Department (LGFD) working under the Integrated Project Administrative
Unit (IPAU) are now represented in the planning and implementation meetings;
(c)     the planning and implementation of the various activities is being mainstreamed into the
broader MEST rather than the Education Sector Plan (ESP Secretariat);
(d)     there will be more joint planning with the Decentralization Secretariat (DECSEC) and the local
councils as the project implementation progresses;
(e)     the flow of funds to contractors and local councils will be streamlined to involve the Local
Government Finance Department as a monitor, but not a conduit for payments;
(f)     the project will now utilize a Rapid Results Approach (RRA) for implementation at the
community level;
(g)     the intervention of the Bank to push for the recruitment of additional staff to support the ESP
Coordinator in the ESP Secretariat has been a plus to the project, thus the presence of a newly
recruited finance officer has impacted significantly on performance in the submission of the Quarterly



                                               55
 Financial Management Reports, the execution of the outstanding Audit activity for 2009 and 2010, the
 conclusion of the 2011 Audit and the increase in the disbursement rate from 2 percent in two years
 (June 2009-June 2011) to 64 percent and in 2012 to 82 percent. As indicated earlier, the recruitment of
 three (3) additional staff in the ESP Secretariat has improved its capacity to implement effectively and
 efficiently the newly designed detailed work plans, including the detailed time frame; and
 (h)     by the insistence of the bank, the project was put on the prioritized list of activities of the
 Government of Sierra Leone, and was monitored by the Education Task Force set up by the Office of
 the President.
 (i)     As the TTL was not based in Freetown, which was an early challenge, the Bank being
 significantly pro-active supported the ESP Secretariat by introducing more intensive and more
 frequent missions, regular communication via emails and phone calls, and even video and audio
 conferences with the TTL and the Loans Disbursement Group in Chennai, which helped greatly in
 salvaging the project and producing the positive turn around in 2010 as critical issues were now
 speedily addressed, such as the Bank issuing No objection Letters in six (6) minutes after the
 submission of the request.
 (j)     The ESP Secretariat having played a pivotal role toward a successful implementation of the
 EFA-FTI project should be provided with additional capacity training opportunities for effective and
 efficient service delivery in future.

    1. LESSONS LEARNED

111. Project implementation readiness is key to achieving project objectives. Project preparation
should include the team that would implement/coordinate project activities so that they can contribute
to preparation and design and have roles clarified prior to implementation.

112. A thorough analysis of the capacity of participating LCs, contractors and other implementing
partners including the Ministry of Education and line Ministries prior to implementation would have
curtailed implementation time.

113. Projects are subject to implementation difficulties when clear cut guidelines are not established.

114. World Bank policy of awarding contracts to the lowest bidder has created problems in the
implementation of some activities. However, contractors/suppliers should be evaluated using accurately
estimated costs indicated as a key criterion for the award of contracts, to avoid under quoted prices.

115. Goods –Teaching and Learning Materials should be delivered by Suppliers directly to the Local
Councils and not to MEST Headquarters Warehouse.

116. Local Councils should be informed in time of their roles to distribute the necessary TLM to
enable them budget for this activity.

117. The community should be fully involved in the project to create a sense of ownership and
confidence in the implementation.

118. The Project Implementing/Coordinating Unit (PIU/PCU/ESP Secretariat) should be allowed by
the Bank to undertake periodic monitoring and tracking of interventions, as in this case Civil Works and
not depend entirely on reports submitted by the Local Councils and other intermediaries, who were
considered to be competent in those areas. This would have prevented overpayments to contractors for
works not actually done.




                                                56
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    57
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aides-memoire and Implementation Status Reports 2007 – 2012

World Development Report 2011: Conflict, Security, and Development, World Bank, 2011.

Country Assistance Strategy, World Bank, 2005.

Sierra Leone Education Sector Plan: A Road Map to a Better Future, 2007-2015, MEST, 2007.

Sierra Leone 2010/11 School Census Report.

Draft Sierra Leone Education Status Report, 2012

Implementation Completion and Results report ICR No. ICR00001528, Rehabilitation of Basic
Education Project (REBEP-IDA-H0200).

Portfolio Restructuring in a Post-Crisis Environment in Côte d’Ivoire, Project Paper, World Bank,
2008.

Project Paper for a proposed restructuring, World Bank, 2010 & 2011.

School Construction Strategies for Universal Primary Education in Africa - Should Communities
Be Empowered to Build Their Schools? Serge Theunynck, World Bank, 2009.




                                               58
Map IBRD 33478
                                                                                                                          IBRD 33478


                                                     Sl ERRA LEONE
                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                          - - - MAIN ROADS
                         ®       DISTRICT CAPITALS                                 - - RAILROADS
                         ®       NATIONALCAPITAL                                   - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                        ~ RIVERS                                                   -   ·-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                                            120W                                I I OW


                                             GUINEA

IO'N                                                               ·-·- ·- ·- - ·- · --...                                       IO'N




                                                                                                                       GUINEA




9' N




        Bcnono
        Islands

8' N




       ATLANTIC OCEAN

7' N



  0      20        40    60 Kilometers


  0           20          40      50 Miles




                                                            120W                                l l 'W

                                                                                                                         NOVEMBER 2004




                                                                    59
